Measure L

Cannabis Business Tax
City of Santa Cruz

Majority Approval Required
Ballot Question:

To protect the quality of life in the City of Santa Cruz and to fund essential city
services such as police, fire, emergency response, youth and senior programs, job
creation, housing, and environmental protection, shall an ordinance be adopted to
impose a tax of no more than 10% (7% when enacted) on gross receipts of cannabis
(marijuana) businesses in the city, subject to audits, with all funds staying local?

Fiscal Impact from City Financial Director:

Measure L, if approved by the voters, would add an ordinance to the Santa Cruz
Municipal Code imposing a business tax, at the time of enactment, of 7% on the gross
receipts of cannabis (medical marijuana) businesses in the City. Measure L would allow
the City Council to increase the rate to no more than 10%. This tax could become
effective in January, 2015, with expected first collections received by the City in
February, 2015.

Use of the Funds. The cannabis business tax revenue would be held in the City's General
Fund and used solely for primary support services that include Police, Fire, Public
Works, Parks & Recreation, community programs and other essential services.

Fiscal Impact. The fiscal impact of this tax cannot be accurately estimated because the
City currently has limited access to gross receipts records of cannabis businesses.
However, when compared to sales tax data, and based on the zoning limitation of no
more than two legally active cannabis businesses, it is estimated that the 7% tax rate
could generate approximately $33,000 in new revenue in the first, partial, fiscal year
and $66,000 to $93,000 for a full tax year. (The ordinance applies to all cannabis
businesses operating in the City, whether or not they are doing so legally.) The cannabis
businesses will be required to file a statement of gross receipts, and pay the business
tax on a monthly basis to the City. A penalty plus interest will be imposed if the tax is
not paid timely.

There will be additional administrative costs to set up reporting procedures as well as
perform routine collection and financial audits. These City costs are estimated to be
approximately $2,200 annually. Additional costs may be incurred for any enforcement
actions.

Accountability. The City's Finance Director is the tax administrator, and has the
authority to examine the books and records of the cannabis businesses to verify the
accuracy of the statement of gross receipts that was filed and the business tax computed
thereon. The Finance Director also has the authority to issue an assessment to a

cannabis business for the estimated amount of tax owed if a statement is not filed and a
tax is not paid by the business.

s/ Marcus A Pimentel
Finance Director
City of Santa Cruz

Impartial Analysis from City Attorney

This ballot measure, if adopted by the voters, would add an ordinance to the Santa Cruz
Municipal Code imposing a cannabis business tax on cannabis (marijuana) businesses
which operate in the City. The ordinance authorizes the City Council to set a maximum
tax rate of ten percent (10%) of gross receipts but sets the initial tax rate at seven
percent (7%) of gross receipts. The ordinance broadly defines "cannabis business" to
include any for-profit or non-profit business which distributes, delivers, dispenses,
exchanges, barters or sells either medical or non-medical cannabis and includes, but is
not limited to, medical marijuana cooperatives and businesses, and any other business
which transports, manufactures, compounds, converts, processes, prepares, stores,
packages, sells at wholesale, or sells at retail, cannabis or products made of cannabis.
The tax is a gross receipts tax imposed on cannabis businesses and is not a sales tax
imposed on qualified patients, primary caregivers or other persons who purchase or
otherwise acquire cannabis for their personal use. All cannabis business tax revenue
will be deposited in the City's General Fund. General Fund revenue is used by the City to
pay for the provision of municipal services to City residents and visitors including the
provision of essential City services. Because the proposed cannabis business tax would
be imposed for general municipal governmental purposes, the ballot measure proposes
a "general tax" as defined by Article XIII of the California Constitution. Accordingly, for
the ballot measure to be adopted, it must receive a simple majority "yes" vote.

This ballot measure has been placed on the ballot by the Santa Cruz City Council.

s/ John G. Barisone
City Attorney

Arguments For Measure L

VOTE YES ON MEASURE L - THE CANNABIS BUSINESS TAX

For over two decades Santa Cruz voters have overwhelmingly supported state and local
laws that provide for safe, compassionate access to medical cannabis for people in our
community whose medical challenges could be alleviated in this way.

The City has been at the forefront of creating laws by which cannabis may be
responsibly provided by prescription, without creating a public nuisance. These existing
ordinances attempt to balance the needs of medical patients, caregivers, and legitimate
medical cannabis businesses, with the need to protect our neighborhoods and open
spaces from illegitimate and illegal operators who damage our forests, divert our
streams, and act without respect for our community.

In recent years the prolonged economic recession caused major reductions in city
services. Measure L will provide new revenues which may be used for many general
purposes, such as public safety, environmental protection, fire services, and community
programs. All revenue collected will stay local, to protect and maintain our
neighborhoods, business districts, parks and open spaces.

This tax is paid by the cannabis businesses — not patients, caregivers or those who
purchase cannabis for personal use.

Measure L creates a business tax only for cannabis businesses, not all businesses. It
does not authorize new cannabis dispensaries or businesses. Measure L is nearly
identical to the proposed cannabis business tax being considered in the unincorporated
county. Passage of the tax ensures consistent regulation across our region.

State law requires that any new tax must be approved by the voters. Measure L is
supported unanimously by the City Council, and will help support essential services to
benefit our community.

Join us in voting YES ON MEASURE L.

s/ Rick Martinez

Deputy Chief of Police

s/ Lynn Robinson

City of Santa Cruz Mayor

s/ Charles Prevedelli, President,

City of Santa Cruz Firefighters
s/ Leslie Conner, Executive Director,

Santa Cruz Community Health Centers
s/ Fred Keeley

President Sempervirens Fund

Arguments Against Measure L

No arguments against Measure L were submitted.

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

CITY OF SANTA CRUZ

Cannabis Business Tax. To protect the quality of life in the

LCity of Santa Cruz and to fund essential city services such
as police, fire, emergency response, youth and senior
programs, job creation, housing, and environmental
protection, shall an ordinance be adopted to impose a tax of no
more than 10% (7% when enacted) on gross receipts of cannabis
(marijuana) businesses in the city, subject to audits, with all funds
staying local?

FULL TEXT OF BALLOT MEASURE L

CANNABIS BUSINESS TAX

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF SANTA CRUZ:

Title 5 of the Santa Cruz Municipal Code is hereby amended to add a new Chapter
to be numbered, entitled and to read as follows:

Chapter 5.07
CANNABIS BUSINESS TAX

Sections:

5.07.010	Purpose of chapter.

5.07.020	Tax imposed.

5.07.030	Definitions.

5.07.040	Other licenses, permits, taxes, fees or charges.

5.07.050	Payment of tax does not authorize unlawful business.

5.07.060	Payment - Location.

5.07.070	Amount of business tax owed.

5.07.080	Payment ■ Time limits.

5.07.090	Payments and communications made by mail - Proof of timely submittal.

5.07.100	Payment ■ When taxes deemed delinquent.

5.07.110	Notice not required by city.

5.07.120	Payment ■ Penalty for delinquency.

5.07.130	Waiver of penalties.

5.07.140	Refunds ■ Credits.

5.07.150	Refunds and procedures.

5.07.160	Exemptions - Application - Issuance conditions.

5.07.170	Exemptions ■ General.

5.07.180	Enforcement - Duties of tax administrator and sheriff.

5.07.190	Rules and regulations.

5.07.200	Apportionment.

5.07.210	Audit and examination of records and equipment.

5.07.220	Tax deemed debt to city.

5.07.230	Lien - recordation.

5.07.240	Warrant for collection of tax.

5.07.250	Seizure and sale.

5.07.260	Successor’s and assignee’s responsibility.

5.07.270	Deficiency determinations.

5.07.280	Tax assessment - Authorized when - Nonpayment - Fraud.

5.07.290	Tax assessment - Notice requirements.

5.07.300	Tax assessment - Hearing - Application and determination.

5.07.310	Conviction for chapter violation - Taxes not waived.

5.07.320	Violation deemed misdemeanor - Penalty.

5.07.330	Severability.

5.07.340 Effect of state and federal reference/authorization.

5.07.350 Remedies cumulative.

5.07.360 Amendment or repeal.

5.07.010	Purpose of chapter.

This chapter shall be known as the “cannabis business tax” and is enacted solely
to raise revenue for the general governmental purposes of the City and not for
purposes of regulation or of raising revenues for regulatory purposes. All of the
proceeds from the tax imposed by this chapter shall be placed in the City’s general
fund and used for the usual current expenses of the City.

5.07.020	Tax imposed.

There is established and imposed, a cannabis business tax at the rate set forth in
this chapter.

5.07.030	Definitions.

The definitions set forth in this part shall govern the application and interpretation of
this chapter.

(A)	“Business” shall include all activities engaged in or caused to be engaged in
within the city, including any commercial or industrial enterprise, trade, profession,
occupation, vocation, calling, or livelihood, whether or not carried on for gain or
profit, but shall not include the services rendered by an employee to his or her
employer.

(B)	“Employee” means each and every person engaged in the operation or conduct
of any business, whether as owner, member of the owner’s family, partner,
associate, agent, manager or solicitor, and each and every other person employed
or working in such business for a wage, salary, commission or room and board.

(C)	’’Engaged in business” means the commencing, conducting, operating,
managing or carrying on of a cannabis business and the exercise of corporate or
franchise powers, whether done as owner, or by means of an officer, agent,
manager, employee, or otherwise, whether operating from a fixed location in the
City or coming into the city from an outside location to engage in such activities. A
person shall be deemed engaged in business within the city if:

(1)	Such person or person’s employee maintains a fixed place of business within
the city for the benefit or partial benefit of such person;

(2)	Such person or person’s employee owns or leases real property within the city
for business purposes;

(3)	Such person or person’s employee regularly maintains a stock of tangible
personal property in the city for sale in the ordinary course of business;

(4)	Such person or person’s employee regularly conducts solicitation of business
within the city;

(5)	Such person or person’s employee performs work or renders services in the
city on a regular and continuous basis involving more than five working days per
year;

(6)	Such person or person’s employee utilizes the streets within the city in
connection with the operation of motor vehicles for business purposes.

The foregoing specified activities shall not be a limitation on the meaning of
“engaged in business.”

(D)	“Evidence of doing business” means whenever any person shall, by use of
signs, circulars, cards or any other advertising media, including the use of internet
or telephone solicitation, represent that such person is engaged in Cannabis
business in the city then these facts may be used as evidence that such person is
engaged in business in the city.

(E)	“Gross receipts,” except as otherwise specifically provided, means the total
amount actually received or receivable from all sales; the total amount or
compensation actually received or receivable for the performance of any act or
service, of whatever nature it may be, for which a charge is made or credit allowed,
whether or not such act or service is done as a part of or in connection with the sale
of materials, goods, wares or merchandise; discounts, rents, royalties, fees,
commissions, dividends, and gains realized from trading in stocks or bonds,
however designated. Included in “gross receipts” shall be all receipts, cash, credits
and property of any kind or nature, without any deduction there from on account of
the cost of the property sold, the cost of materials used, labor or service costs,
interest paid or payable, or losses or other expenses whatsoever, except that the
following shall be excluded there from:

(1)	Cash discounts allowed and taken on sales;

(2)	Credit allowed on property accepted as part of the purchase price and which
property may later be sold, at which time the sales price shall be included as gross
receipts;

44-509

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

(3)	Any tax required by law to be included in or added to the purchase price and
collected from the consumer or purchaser;

(4)	Such part of the sale price of any property returned by purchasers to the seller
as refunded by the seller by way of cash or credit allowances or return of
refundable deposits previously included in gross receipts;

(5)	Receipts from investments where the holder of the investment receives only
interest and/or dividends, royalties, annuities and gains from the sale or exchange
of stock or securities solely for a person’s own account, not derived in the ordinary
course of a business;

(6)	Receipts derived from the occasional sale of used, obsolete or surplus trade
fixtures, machinery or other equipment used by the taxpayer in the regular course
of the taxpayer’s business;

(7)	Cash value of sales, trades or transactions between departments or units of the
same business;

(8)	Transactions between a partnership and its partners;

(9)	Receipts from services or sales in transactions between affiliated corporations.
An affiliated corporation is a corporation:

(a)	The voting and non-voting stock of which is owned at least eighty percent by
such other corporation with which such transaction is had; or

(b)	Which owns at least eighty percent of the voting and non-voting stock of such
other corporation; or

(c)	At least eighty percent of the voting and non-voting stock of which is owned by a
common parent corporation which also has such ownership of the corporation with
which such transaction is had;

(10)	Transactions between a limited liability company and its member(s), provided
the limited liability company has elected to file as a Subchapter K entity under the
Internal Revenue Code and that such transaction(s) shall be treated the same as
between a partnership and its partner(s) as specified in Subsection (9) above;

(11)	Receipts of refundable deposits, except that such deposits when forfeited and
taken into income of the business shall not be excluded when in excess of one
dollar;

(12)	Amounts collected for others where the business is acting as an agent or
trustee and to the extent that such amounts are paid to those for whom collected.
These agents or trustees must provide the finance department with the names and
the addresses of the others and the amounts paid to them. This exclusion shall not
apply to any fees, percentages, or other payments retained by the agent or
trustees.

“Gross receipts” subject to the business tax shall be that portion of gross receipts
relating to business conducted within the city.

(F)	“Cannabis” means all parts of the plant Cannabis sativa L., whether growing or
not; the seeds thereof; the resin extracted from any part of the plant; and every
compound, manufacture, oil, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of the plant, its
seeds or resin.

(G)	“Cannabis business” or “medical marijuana business” means any business
activity which entails the distribution, delivery, dispensing, exchanging, bartering or
sale of either medical or non-medical cannabis, including but not limited to,
transporting, manufacturing, compounding, converting, processing, preparing,
storing, packaging, wholesale, and/or retail sales of Cannabis and any ancillary
products in the city, whether or not carried on for gain or profit.

(H)	“Cannabis business tax”, “Business tax" or “Cannabis tax” means the tax due
for engaging in Cannabis business in the city.

(I)	“Person” means, without limitation, any natural individual, organization, firm,
trust, common law trust, estate, partnership of any kind, association, syndicate,
club, joint stock company, joint venture, limited liability company, corporation
(including foreign, domestic, and nonprofit), cooperative, receiver, trustee,
guardian, or other representative appointed by order of any court.

(J)	“Operator” shall mean any person conducting, operating, or maintaining in
whole or in part as principal, agent, officer, employee or independent contractor
any cannabis business or medical marijuana business as defined in this chapter,
taxable under this chapter.

(K)	“Sale” means and includes any sale, exchange, or barter.

(L)	““Tax Administrator” or “administrator” means the Finance Director or such
other administrator designated by the City Manager to administer this chapter

5.07.040	Other licenses, permits, taxes, fees or charges.

Nothing contained in this Chapter 5.07 shall be deemed to repeal, amend, be in lieu
of, replace or in any way affect any requirements for any license or permit required
by, under or by virtue of any provision of any other title or chapter of this code or
any other ordinance or resolution of the city, nor be deemed to repeal, amend, be in
lieu of, replace or in any way affect any tax, fee or other charge imposed, assessed
or required by, under or by virtue of any other title or chapter of this code or any
other ordinance or resolution of the city.

5.07.050	Payment of tax does not authorize unlawful business.

(A)	The payment of a business tax required by this chapter, and its acceptance by
the city, shall not entitle any person to carry on any cannabis business unless the
person has complied with all of the requirements of this code and all other
applicable laws, nor to carry on any Cannabis business in any building or on any
premises in the event that such building or premises are situated in a zone or
locality in which the conduct of such Cannabis business is in violation of any law.

(B)	No tax paid under the provisions of this chapter shall be construed as
authorizing the conduct or continuance of any illegal or unlawful business, or any
business in violation of any ordinance of the city.

5.07.060	Payment ■ Location.

The tax imposed under this chapter shall be paid to the administrator in lawful
money of the United States, at the Offices of the Finance Director in Santa Cruz,
California. Lawful money shall mean any coin, currency or negotiable instrument,
exchangeable for said coin or currency, which the United States Congress has
declared to be a national legal tender.

5.07.070	Amount of business tax owed.

(A)	Every person engaged in cannabis business in the city shall pay a business tax
at a rate of up to ten percent of gross receipts. The tax under this chapter shall not
be imposed on cannabis businesses unless and until the City Council, by
ordinance, takes action to set a tax rate not to exceed ten percent of gross receipts.

(B)	Notwithstanding the maximum tax rate often percent of gross receipts imposed
under Subsection A., the City Council may, in its discretion, at any time by
ordinance, implement a lower tax rate for all cannabis businesses or establish
differing tax rates for different categories of cannabis businesses, as defined in
such ordinance, subject to the maximum rate often percent of gross receipts. The
City Council may, by ordinance, also increase any such tax rate from time to time,
not to exceed the maximum tax rate of ten percent of gross receipts established
under Subsection (A).

(C)	Pursuant to Subsection (A), the cannabis business tax is set at seven percent
of gross receipts. Commencing on the operative date of this chapter, every person
engaged in cannabis business in the city shall pay a cannabis business tax at the
rate of seven percent of gross receipts.

5.07.080	Payment - Time limits.

The business tax imposed by this chapter shall be due and payable as follows:

(A)	Each person owing a tax under this chapter shall, on or before the last day of
each calendar month, prepare a tax statement to the administrator of the total
gross receipts and the amount of tax owed for the preceding calendar month. At
the time the tax statement is filed, the full amount of the tax owed for the preceding
calendar month shall be remitted to the administrator.

(B)	All tax statement shall be completed on forms provided by the administrator.

(C)	Tax statements and payments for all outstanding taxes owed the city are
immediately due to the administrator upon cessation of business for any reason.

Santa Cruz County

44-510

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

5.07.090	Payments and communications made by mail - Proof of timely
submittal.

Whenever any payment, statement, report, request or other communication
received by the administrator is received after the time prescribed by this chapter
for the receipt thereof, but is in an envelope bearing a postmark showing that it was
mailed on or prior to the date prescribed in this chapter for the receipt thereof, or
whenever the administrator is furnished substantial proof that the payment,
statement, report, request or other communication was in fact deposited in the
United States mail on or prior to the date prescribed for receipt thereof, the
administrator may regard such payment, statement, report, request or other
communication as having been timely received. If the due day falls on Saturday,
Sunday or a holiday, the due day shall be the next regular business day on which
the City Hall Building at 809 Center Street, Santa Cruz is open to the public.

5.07.100	Payment - When taxes deemed delinquent.

Unless otherwise specifically provided under other provisions of this chapter, the
taxes required to be paid pursuant to this chapter shall be deemed delinquent if not
paid on or before the due date specified in Section 5.07.080.

5.07.110	Notice not required by city.

The administrator is not required to send a delinquency or other notice or bill to any
person subject to the provisions of this chapter and failure to send such notice or
bill shall not affect the validity of any tax or penalty due under the provisions of this
chapter.

5.07.120	Payment - Penalty for delinquency.

(A)	Any person who fails or refuses to pay any business tax required to be paid
pursuant to this chapter on or before the due date shall pay penalties and interest
as follows:

(1)	A penalty equal to twenty-five percent of the amount of the tax in addition to the
amount of the tax, plus interest on the unpaid tax calculated from the due date of
the tax; and

(2)	An additional penalty equal to twenty-five percent of the amount of the tax if the
tax remains unpaid for a period exceeding one calendar month beyond the due
date, plus interest on the unpaid tax and on the unpaid penalties.

(3)	In addition to the penalties imposed, any person who fails to remit any tax
imposed by this chapter shall pay interest at the rate of one and one-half percent
per month or fraction thereof on the amount of tax, exclusive of penalties, from the
last day of the month following the monthly period for which the amount or any
portion thereof should have been paid until the date of payment.

(4)	Only payments for the full amount due shall be accepted unless an alternate
payment agreement is reached with the Administrator.

(B)	Whenever a check is submitted in payment of a business tax and the check is
subsequently returned unpaid by the bank upon which the check is drawn, and the
check is not redeemed prior to the due date, the taxpayer will be liable for the tax
amount due plus the return check fee; penalties and interest as provided for in this
section; and any amount allowed under state law.

(C)	The business tax due shall be that amount due and payable from the first date
on which the person was engaged in cannabis business in the city, together with
applicable penalties and interest calculated in accordance with Subsection(A)
above.

5.07.130	Waiver of penalties.

The administrator may waive the first and second penalties imposed upon any
person if:

(A)	The person provides evidence satisfactory to the administrator that failure to
pay timely was due to circumstances beyond the control of the person and
occurred notwithstanding the exercise of ordinary care and the absence of willful
neglect, and the person paid the delinquent business tax and accrued interest
owed the city prior to applying to the administrator for a waiver.

(B)	The waiver provisions specified in this subsection shall not apply to interest
accrued on the delinquent tax and a waiver shall be granted only once during any
twenty-four month period.

(C)	A request for relief from the first and second penalties must be filed within thirty
days of the date the remittance was due to the city, but no later than ten days of the
city’s notice to the operator of the amount past due.

5.07.140	Refunds - Credits.

(A)	No refund shall be made of any tax collected pursuant to this chapter, except as
provided in Section 5.07.150.

(B)	No refund of any tax collected pursuant to this chapter shall be made because
of the discontinuation, dissolution or other termination of a business.

(C)	Any person entitled to a refund of taxes paid pursuant to this chapter may elect
in writing to have such refund applied as a credit against such person’s business
taxes for the next calendar month.

5.07.150	Refunds and procedures.

(A)	Whenever the amount of any business tax, penalty or interest has been
overpaid, paid more than once, or has been erroneously or illegally collected or
received by the city under this chapter, it may be refunded to the claimant who paid
the tax provided that a written claim for refund is filed with the administrator within
one year of the date the tax was originally due and payable.

(B)	The administrator or the administrator’s authorized agent shall have the right to
examine and audit all the books and business records of the claimant in order to
determine the eligibility of the claimant to the claimed refund. No claim for refund
shall be allowed if the claimant refuses to allow such examination of claimant’s
books and business records after request by the administrator to do so.

(C)	In the event that the business tax was erroneously paid and the error is
attributable to the city, the entire amount of the tax erroneously paid shall be
refunded to the claimant. If the error is attributable to the claimant, the city shall
retain an amount from the refund reasonably calculated to cover expenses in
verifying the error.

5.07.160	Exemptions - Application - Issuance conditions.

Any person desiring to claim exemption from the payment of the tax set forth in this
chapter shall make application upon forms prescribed by the administrator and
shall furnish such information and make such affidavits as may be required by the
administrator.

5.07.170	Exemptions - General.

Except as may be otherwise specifically provided in this chapter, the terms hereof
shall not be deemed or construed to apply to any person when imposition of the tax
upon that person would violate the Constitution of the United States or that of the
State of California or preemptive federal or state law.

5.07.180	Enforcement - Duties of tax administrator and Police Chief.

It shall be the duty of the administrator to enforce each and all of the provisions of
this chapter, and the Police Chief shall render such assistance in the enforcement
of this chapter as may from time to time be required by the administrator.

5.07.190	Rules and regulations.

For purposes of apportionment as may be required by law and for purposes of
administration and enforcement of this chapter generally, the administrator, with
the concurrence of the city attorney, may from time to time promulgate
administrative rules and regulations.

5.07.200	Apportionment.

(A)	None of the tax provided for by this chapter shall be applied so as to occasion
an undue burden upon interstate commerce or be violative of the equal protection
and due process clauses of the Constitutions of the United States or the State of
California.

(B)	If any case where a business tax is believed by a taxpayer to place an undue
burden upon interstate commerce or be violative of such constitutional clauses, the
taxpayer may apply to the administrator for an adjustment of the tax. It shall be the
taxpayer’s obligation to request in writing for an adjustment within one year after
the date of payment of the tax. If the taxpayer does not request in writing within one
year from the date of payment, then taxpayer shall be conclusively deemed to have
waived any adjustment for that year and all prior years.

44-511

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

(C)	The taxpayer shall, by sworn statement and supporting testimony, show the
method of business and the gross volume of business and such other information
as the administrator may deem necessary in order to determine the extent, if any,
of such undue burden or violation. The administrator shall then conduct an
investigation, and shall fix as the tax for the taxpayer an amount that is reasonable
and nondiscriminatory, or if the tax has already been paid, shall order a refund of
the amount over and above the tax so fixed. In fixing the tax to be charged, the
administrator shall have the power to base the tax upon a percentage of gross
receipts or any other measure which will assure that the tax assessed shall be
uniform with that assessed on businesses of like nature, so long as the amount
assessed does not exceed the tax as prescribed by this chapter.

(D)	Should the administrator determine that the gross receipt measure of tax to be
the proper basis, the administrator may require the taxpayer to submit a sworn
statement of the gross receipts and pay the amount of tax as determined by the
administrator.

5.07.210	Audit and examination of records and equipment.

(A)	The administrator shall have the power to audit and examine all books and
records of persons engaged in Cannabis business including both state and federal
income tax returns, California sales tax returns, or other evidence documenting the
gross receipts of persons engaged in Cannabis business, and, where necessary,
all equipment, of any person engaged in Cannabis business in the city, for the
purpose of ascertaining the amount of business tax, if any, required to be paid by
the provisions hereof, and for the purpose of verifying any statements or any item
thereof when filed by any person pursuant to the provisions of this chapter. If such
person, after written demand by the administrator, refuses to make available for
audit, examination or verification such books, records or equipment as the
administrator requests, the administrator may, after full consideration of all
information within his or her knowledge concerning the Cannabis business and
activities of the person so refusing, make an assessment in the manner provided in
Sections 5.07.250 through 5.07.270 of any taxes estimated to be due.

(B)	It shall be the duty of every person liable for the collection and payment to the
city of any tax imposed by this chapter to keep and preserve, for a period of at least
four years, all records as may be necessary to determine the amount of such tax as
he or she may have been liable for the collection of and payment to the city, which
records the administrator shall have the right to inspect at all reasonable times.

5.07.220	Tax deemed debt to city.

The amount of any tax, penalties and interest imposed by the provisions of this
chapter shall be deemed a debt to the city and any person carrying on any
cannabis business without first having paid such tax shall be liable in an action in
the name of the city in any court of competent jurisdiction for the amount of the tax,
and penalties and interest imposed on such business and for attorneys’ fees in the
enforcement of this chapter.

5.07.230	Lien - recordation.

If any amount required to be paid to the city under the ordinance codified in this
chapter is not paid when due, the administrator, upon expiration of the second
delinquency period referenced in Section 5.07.120(A)(2), may within four years
after the amount is due, record in the Office(s) of the County Recorder(s) of any
county in the State of California a certificate specifying the amount of tax, penalties
and interest due, the name and address of the operator liable for the same and the
fact that the administrator has complied with all provisions of this chapter in the
determination of the amount required to be paid. From the time of the recording, the
amount required to be paid together with penalties and interest shall constitute a
lien upon any and all real property in any county owned by the operator or
thereafter acquired by the operator. The lien shall have the force, effect and priority
of a judgment lien and shall continue for ten years from the time of filing of the
certificate unless sooner released or otherwise discharged.

5.07.240	Warrant for collection of tax.

At any time within four years after any operator is delinquent in the payment of any
amount herein required to be paid off after the last recording of a certificate of lien
under Section 5.07.231 of this chapter, the administrator may issue a warrant for
the enforcement of any liens and for the collection of any amount required to be
paid to the city under this chapter. The warrant shall be directed to any sheriff,

marshal or constable and shall have the same effect as a writ of execution. The
warrant shall be levied and sale made pursuant to it in the same manner and with
the same effect as a levy of and a sale pursuant to a writ of execution. The
administrator may pay or advance to the sheriff, marshal or constable, the same
fees, commissions and expenses for his or her services as are provided by law for
similar services pursuant to a writ of execution.

5.07.250	Seizure and sale.

At any time within four years after any operator is delinquent in the payment of any
amount, the director may forthwith collect the amount in the following manner: The
administrator shall seize any property, real or personal, of the operator and sell the
property, or a sufficient part of it, at public auction to pay the amount due together
with any penalties and interest imposed for the delinquency and any costs incurred
on account of the seizure and sale. Any seizure made to collect taxes due shall be
only of property of the operator not exempt from execution under the provisions of
the California Code of Civil Procedure.

5.07.260	Successor’s and assignee’s responsibility.

If any operator, while liable for any amount under this chapter, sells, assigns or
otherwise transfers the business, whether voluntarily or involuntarily; the
operator’s subsequent successor, assign or other transferee, or other person or
entity obtaining ownership or control of the business, shall satisfy any tax liability
owed to the city associated with the business. Failure to do so for the benefit of the
city will result in being personally liable to the city for the full amount of the tax
liability, which includes interest and penalties.

The successor operator, assign, purchaser, transferee, or other person or entity
seeking to obtain ownership or control of the business shall notify the administrator
of the date of transfer at least thirty days prior to the transfer date; or if the
agreement to sell, transfer, or otherwise dispose of the business was made less
than thirty days prior to the date of transfer, notice shall be provided immediately.

The successor operator, assign, purchaser, transferee, or other person or entity
who obtains ownership or control of the business shall be deemed to have
complied with the requirement of this section to satisfy the unpaid tax liability, if that
person or entity complies with the requirements of California Revenue and
Taxation Code Section 7283.5 by withholding from the purchase price an amount
sufficient to cover the tax liability, or by otherwise paying the tax liability until the
administrator provides a “Tax Clearance Certificate” showing that it has been paid
and stating that no amount is due through the date of transfer.

The administrator, within 90 days of receiving a written request from a successor
operator, assign, purchaser, transferee, or other person or entity who obtains or
attempts to obtain ownership or control of the hotel, may issue a “Tax Clearance
Certificate” stating either the amount of tax liability due and owing for the property,
or stating that there is no tax liability due and owing for the property. The
administrator may also request financial records from the current or former owner
or operator to conduct an audit of the tax that may be due and owing. After
completing the audit within 90 days after the date that the records were made
available, the administrator may issue a tax clearance certificate within 30 days of
completing the audit, stating the amount of the tax liability owed, if any. If the city
determines that the records provided for an audit are insufficient, the administrator
may rely on the facts and information available to estimate any tax liability
associated with the property. The administrator may issue a tax clearance
certificate stating the amount of the tax liability, if any, based on such facts and
information available. A written application for a hearing on the amount assessed
on the tax clearance certificate must be made within ten days after the serving or
mailing of the certificate. The hearing provision of Section 5.07.270 shall apply. If
an application for a hearing is not made within the time prescribed, the tax
clearance certificate shall serve as conclusive evidence of the tax liability
associated with the property as of the date specified on the certificate.

5.07.270	Deficiency determinations.

If the administrator is not satisfied that any statement filed as required under the
provisions of this chapter is correct, or thatthe amount of tax is correctly computed,
he or she may compute and determine the amount to be paid and make a
deficiency determination upon the basis of the facts contained in the statement or
upon the basis of any information in his or her possession or that may come into his

Santa Cruz County

44-512

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

or her possession within three years of the date the tax was originally due and
payable. One or more deficiency determinations of the amount of tax due for a
period or periods may be made. When a person discontinues engaging in a
business, a deficiency determination may be made at any time within three years
thereafter as to any liability arising from engaging in such business whether or not
a deficiency determination is issued prior to the date the tax would otherwise be
due. Whenever a deficiency determination is made, a notice shall be given to the
person concerned in the same manner as notices of assessment are given under
Sections 5.07.250 through 5.07.270.

5.07.280	Tax assessment - Authorized when ■ Nonpayment - Fraud.

(A)	Under any of the following circumstances, the administrator may make and
give notice of an assessment of the amount of tax owed by a person under this
chapter at any time:

(1)	If the person has not filed any statement required under the provisions of this
chapter;

(2)	If the person has not paid any tax due under the provisions of this chapter;

(3)	If the person has not, after demand by the administrator, filed a corrected
statement, or furnished to the administrator adequate substantiation of the
information contained in a statement already filed, or paid any additional amount of
tax due under the provisions of this chapter;

(4)	If the administrator determines that the nonpayment of any business tax due under
this chapter is due to fraud, a penalty of forty percent of the amount of the tax shall be
added thereto in addition to penalties and interest otherwise stated in this chapter.

(B)	The notice of assessment shall separately set forth the amount of any tax
known by the administrator to be due or estimated by the administrator, after
consideration of all information within the administrator’s knowledge concerning
the business and activities of the person assessed, to be due under each
applicable section of this chapter, and shall include the amount of any penalties or
interest accrued on each amount to the date of the notice of assessment.

5.07.290	Tax assessment - Notice requirements.

The notice of assessment shall be served upon the person either by handing it to
him or her personally, or by a deposit of the notice in the United States mail,
postage prepaid thereon, addressed to the person at the address of the location of
the business or to such other address as he or she shall register with the
administrator for the purpose of receiving notices provided under this chapter; or,
should the person have no address registered with the administrator for such
purpose, then to such person’s last known address. For the purposes of this
section, a service by mail is complete at the time of deposit in the United States
mail.

5.07.300	Tax assessment - Hearing - Application and determination.

Within ten days after the date of service the person may apply in writing to the
administrator for a hearing on the assessment. If application for a hearing before
the city is not made within the time herein prescribed, the tax assessed by the
administrator shall become final and conclusive. Within thirty days of the receipt of
any such application for hearing, the administrator shall cause the matter to be set
for hearing before him or her not later than thirty-five days after the receipt of the
application, unless a later date is agreed to by the administrator and the person
requesting the hearing. Notice of such hearing shall be given by the administrator
to the person requesting such hearing not later than five days prior to such hearing.
At such hearing said applicant may appear and offer evidence why the assessment
as made by the administrator should not be confirmed and fixed as the tax due.
After such hearing the administrator shall determine and reassess the proper tax to
be charged and shall give written notice to the person in the manner prescribed in
Section 5.07.260 for giving notice of assessment. The amount determined to be
due shall be payable after fifteen days.

5.07.310	Conviction for chapter violation - Taxes not waived.

The conviction and punishment of any person for failure to pay the required tax
shall not excuse or exempt such person from any civil action for the tax debt unpaid
at the time of such conviction. No civil action shall prevent a criminal prosecution

for any violation of the provisions of this chapter or of any state law requiring the
payment of all taxes.

5.07.320	Violation deemed misdemeanor ■ Penalty.

Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter or any regulation or rule
passed in accordance herewith, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and
upon conviction thereof shall be punishable by a fine of not more than five hundred
dollars or by imprisonment for a period of not more than six months, or by both such
fine and imprisonment.

5.07.330	Severability.

Should any provision of this chapter, or its application to any person or
circumstance, be determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be unlawful,
unenforceable or otherwise void, that determination shall have no effect on any
other provision of this chapter or the application of this chapter to any other person
or circumstance and, to that end, the provisions hereof are severable.

5.07.340 Effect of state and federal reference/ authorization.

(A)	Unless specifically provided otherwise, any reference to a state or federal statute
in this chapter shall mean such statute as it may be amended from time to time,
provided that such reference to a statute herein shall not include any amendment
thereto, or to any change of interpretation thereto by a state or federal agency or
court of law with the duty to interpret such law, to the extent that such amendment or
change of interpretation would, under California law, require voter approval of such
amendment or interpretation, or to the extent that such change would result in a tax
decrease. To the extent voter approval would otherwise be required or a tax
decrease would result, the prior version of the statute, or interpretation thereof, shall
remain applicable; for any application or situation that would not require voter
approval or result in a decrease of a tax, provisions of the amended statute, or new
interpretation thereof, shall be applicable to the maximum possible extent.

(B)	To the extent that the city’s authorization to collect or impose any tax imposed
under this chapter is expanded as a result of changes in state or federal law, no
amendment or modification of this chapter shall be required to conform the tax to
those changes, and the tax shall be imposed and collected to the full extent of the
authorization up to the full amount of the tax imposed under this chapter.

5.07.350 Remedies cumulative.

All remedies and penalties prescribed by this chapter or which are available under
any other provision of law or equity, including but not limited to the California False
Claims Act (Government Code Section 12650 et seq.) and the California Unfair
Practices Act (Business and Professions Code Section 17070 et seq.), are
cumulative. The use of one or more remedies by the city shall not bar the use of any
other remedy for the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this chapter.

5.07.360 Amendment or repeal.

Chapter 5.07 of the Santa Cruz Municipal Code may be repealed or amended by
the City Council without a vote of the people. However, as required by Chapter
XIIIC of the California Constitution, voter approval is required for any amendment
provision that would increase the rate of any tax levied pursuant to this chapter.
The people of the City of Santa Cruz affirm that the following actions shall not
constitute an increase of the rate of a tax:

(A)	The restoration of the rate of the tax to a rate that is no higher than the
maximum ten percent tax rate set by this chapter, if the City Council has previously
acted to reduce the rate of the tax;

(B)	The City Council’s adoption of an ordinance, as authorized by Section
5.07.070(A), to raise the tax rate provided the tax rate is not raised to a rate higher
than ten percent.

(C)	An action that interprets or clarifies the methodology of the tax, or any definition
applicable to the tax, so long as interpretation or clarification (even if contrary to some
prior interpretation or clarification) is not inconsistent with the language of this chapter;

(D)	The establishment of a class of persons that is exempt or excepted from the tax
or the discontinuation of any such exemption or exception (other than the
discontinuation of an exemption or exception specifically set forth in this chapter); or

(E)	The collection of the tax imposed by this chapter, even if the city had, for some
period of time, failed to collect the tax.

Santa Cruz County

44-513

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
MEASURE L

This ballot measure, if adopted by the voters, would add an ordinance to the Santa
Cruz Municipal Code imposing a cannabis business tax on cannabis (marijuana)
businesses which operate in the City. The ordinance authorizes the City Council to
set a maximum tax rate often percent (10%) of gross receipts but sets the initial tax
rate at seven percent (7%) of gross receipts. The ordinance broadly defines
“cannabis business” to include any for-profit or non-profit business which
distributes, delivers, dispenses, exchanges, barters or sells either medical or
non-medical cannabis and includes, but is not limited to, medical marijuana
cooperatives and businesses, and any other business which transports,
manufactures, compounds, converts, processes, prepares, stores, packages,
sells at wholesale, or sells at retail, cannabis or products made of cannabis. The
tax is a gross receipts tax imposed on cannabis businesses and is not a sales tax
imposed on qualified patients, primary caregivers or other persons who purchase
or otherwise acquire cannabis for their personal use. All cannabis business tax
revenue will be deposited in the City’s General Fund. General Fund revenue is
used by the City to pay for the provision of municipal services to City residents and
visitors including the provision of essential City services. Because the proposed
cannabis business tax would be imposed for general municipal governmental
purposes, the ballot measure proposes a “general tax” as defined by Article XIII of
the California Constitution. Accordingly, for the ballot measure to be adopted, it
must receive a simple majority “yes” vote.

This ballot measure has been placed on the ballot by the Santa Cruz City Council.

s/John G. Barisone
City Attorney

FISCAL IMPACT ANALYSIS BY CITY FINANCE DIRECTOR
MEASURE L

Measure L, if approved by the voters, would add an ordinance to the Santa Cruz
Municipal Code imposing a business tax, at the time of enactment, of 7% on the
gross receipts of cannabis (medical marijuana) businesses in the City. Measure L
would allow the City Council to increase the rate to no more than 10%. This tax
could become effective in January, 2015, with expected first collections received
by the City in February, 2015.

Use of the Funds. The cannabis business tax revenue would be held in the City’s
General Fund and used solely for primary support services that include Police,
Fire, Public Works, Parks & Recreation, community programs and other essential
services.

Fiscal Impact. The fiscal impact of this tax cannot be accurately estimated because
the City currently has limited access to gross receipts records of cannabis
businesses. However, when compared to sales tax data, and based on the zoning
limitation of no more than two legally active cannabis businesses, it is estimated
that the 7% tax rate could generate approximately $33,000 in new revenue in the
first, partial, fiscal year and $66,000 to $93,000 for a full tax year. (The ordinance
applies to all cannabis businesses operating in the City, whether or not they are
doing so legally.) The cannabis businesses will be required to file a statement of
gross receipts, and pay the business tax on a monthly basis to the City. A penalty
plus interest will be imposed if the tax is not paid timely.

There will be additional administrative costs to set up reporting procedures as well
as perform routine collection and financial audits. These City costs are estimated
to be approximately $2,200 annually. Additional costs may be incurred for any
enforcement actions.

Accountability. The City’s Finance Director is the tax administrator, and has the
authority to examine the books and records of the cannabis businesses to verify
the accuracy of the statement of gross receipts that was filed and the business tax
computed thereon. The Finance Director also has the authority to issue an
assessment to a cannabis business for the estimated amount of tax owed if a
statement is not filed and a tax is not paid by the business.

si Marcus A Pimentel
Finance Director
City of Santa Cruz

Santa Cruz County

44-514

VOTER’S PAMPHLET MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS  (whichever is applicable to your ballot)  Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.	
ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE L  VOTE YES ON MEASURE L - THE CANNABIS BUSINESS TAX  For over two decades Santa Cruz voters have overwhelmingly supported state and local laws that provide for safe, compassionate access to medical cannabis for people in our community whose medical challenges could be alleviated in this way.  The City has been at the forefront of creating laws by which cannabis may be responsibly provided by prescription, without creating a public nuisance. These existing ordinances attempt to balance the needs of medical patients, caregivers, and legitimate medical cannabis businesses, with the need to protect our neighborhoods and open spaces from illegitimate and illegal operators who damage our forests, divert our streams, and act without respect for our community.  In recent years the prolonged economic recession caused major reductions in city services. Measure L will provide new revenues which may be used for many general purposes, such as public safety, environmental protection, fire services, and community programs. All revenue collected will stay local, to protect and maintain our neighborhoods, business districts, parks and open spaces.  This tax is paid by the cannabis businesses — not patients, caregivers or those who purchase cannabis for personal use.  Measure L creates a business tax only for cannabis businesses, not all businesses. It does not authorize new cannabis dispensaries or businesses. Measure L is nearly identical to the proposed cannabis business tax being considered in the unincorporated county. Passage of the tax ensures consistent regulation across our region.  State law requires that any new tax must be approved by the voters. Measure L is supported unanimously by the City Council, and will help support essential services to benefit our community.  Join us in voting YES ON MEASURE L.  si Rick Martinez Deputy Chief of Police  si Lynn Robinson City of Santa Cruz Mayor  si Charles Prevedelli President, City of Santa Cruz Firefighters  si Leslie Conner Executive Director, Santa Cruz Community Health Centers  si Fred Keeley President Sempervirens Fund	NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE L WAS FILED.