7/16/2014

Ba)lotSubfritlalFormAJbany112014.png

BALLOT MEASURE SUBMITTAL
FORM

omcm Uii OMe stamp

BALLOT MEASURE QUESTION	■ y ■ >.- - '
Jurisdiction Name; Ajbany ynjjje(j gch00| District	Election Date; November 4, 2014

Note; The information as it appears within the measure question text box will be printed on the ballot.

Insert ballot question text here;

*To maintain excellent schools; preserve funding for science, art, music, library
services, and reading and math support; attract and retain exceptional teachers
and counselors; limit class sizes; and keep schools sale and technology and
textbooks up-to-date; shall Albany Unified School District replace an expiring
$159/year parcel tax with a temporary, six-year parcel tax of $27Q/year, with
senior and SSI/SSDI exemptions, adjustments for inflation, independent audits,
and all funds staying local to benefit Albany students?"



TYPE OF MEASURE

U\Regular Measure

|	|	Bond	Measure

PERCENTAGE NEEDED TO PASS

66.7	%

FULL TEXT OPTION
Full Text to be printed in the Voter Information Pamphlet

ft

□

□

YES (note: must submit separate copy of Full Text along with tfn's firm)
NO - A Pull Text was not submitted

NO - Do not print, but it's accessible at______________________

CONTACT INFORMATION (for office use)

CONTACT INFORMATION (for public)

Phone #:

Phone #:

5iQ-550-33-4(,

flirt (^<XU,vlKI3.ft.r

https^/mall.google.co(T>'fnail/u/1/#apps/teresag %40tramutola.C(xrV146a6d92e36dc63a?pfqector= 1

1/1

EXHIBIT B

s~-

I



ABBREVIATED TEXT OF MEASURE

(This summarizes, in 75 words or less, the full text of the proposition which appears on Exhibit A above.)

"To maintain excellent schools; preserve funding for science, art, music, library services, and
reading and math support; attract and retain exceptional teachers and counselors; limit class
sizes; and keep schools safe and technology and textbooks up-to-date; shall Albany Unified
School District replace an expiring $159/year parcel tax with a temporary, six-year parcel tax of
$278/year, with senior and SSI/SSDI exemptions, adjustments for inflation, independent audits,
and all funds staying local to benefit Albany students?"

Tax - Yes

Tax - No

|SR136085.DOC|B-1

EXHIBIT A

FULL BALLOT TEXT
OF THE MEASURE

ALBANY UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT

PRESERVE FUNDING FOR ALBANY SCHOOLS ACT OF 2014

This Proposition may be known and referred to as the Albany Unified School District Preserve

Funding for Albany Schools Act of 2014 or as Measure_(designation to be assigned by County

registrar of Voters).

FINDINGS

A superior and comprehensive education program delivers many long-lasting benefits and
advantages to all the children and residents of a community.

The State’s dire economic condition in recent years led the Governor and the California
Legislature to make drastic cuts in education funding, which cuts have yet to be restored.

The direct impact of these State cuts on local Albany schools has meant eliminating teaching
positions and student support staff.

While the recession may be over, Californians are still struggling to repay the debts incurred
during that time. Despite promises from Sacramento, the full funding guarantee to schools
enshrined in the California Constitution will not be realized for many years.

The District cannot rely upon the state to meet its needs. Without continuing to supplement
State funding at the local level, Albany's school-age children will be negatively impacted by
inadequate school funding.

An extension of Measure I, approved by Albany voters in 2009, and which expires on June 30,
2015, is necessary to protect the quality of education that Albany provides.

TERMS

Upon approval of two-thirds of those voting on this Proposition, the District shall be authorized
to levy a qualified special tax (education parcel tax) for six years, beginning on July 1, 2015, at
the rate of $278 per year on each parcel of taxable real property located wholly or partly within
the District.

{SR136085.DOC)A-1

To account for the impact of inflation on the cost of delivering the classroom programs and
student services supported by the education parcel tax, the tax rate shall be adjusted annually as
the Board of Education shall determine, commencing July 1, 2016, by no more than the average
of the reported monthly or other periodic percentage changes in the Consumer Price Index-All
Urban Consumers, San Francisco-Oakland-San Jose area (Series CUURA422SA0) over the prior
twelve months, as of April 1 of each year, as published by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics,
rounded to the nearest dollar. If, in any given year, that index is not available, then the rate will
be adjusted based on the changes in the Consumer Price Index - All Urban Consumers (CPI-U).

If approved, the special taxes so authorized will entirely supersede and replace the special taxes
authorized by the District's voters with the approval of Measure I in 2009, effective July 1, 2015.
If this measure is not so approved, then the special taxes approved by Measure I shall continue
in effect only until June 30, 2015, at which point those special taxes shall cease to be in effect, in
accordance with the terms of Measure I.

During its term, the education parcel tax authorized by this Proposition shall be in addition to
any other existing parcel taxes or another tax enacted on the same date.

PURPOSES

Monies raised under this Preserve Funding for Albany Schools Act shall be authorized to be
used to maintain programs and services at risk as a direct result of a reduction in State funding
for schools, including but not limited to:

•	Preserve funding for science, art, music, library services, and reading and math support;

•	Attract and retain exceptional teachers and counselors;

•	Maintain manageable class sizes;

•	Keep schools safe and well maintained;

•	Keep classroom technology and textbooks and instructional materials up-to-date

and to restore and preserve other academic programs, instructional equipment, materials and
supplies from State budget cuts, to the extent of available funds.

EXEMPTIONS AND REBATES

The exemptions and rebate provided for below shall be available pursuant to procedures to be
prescribed by the Board of Education or otherwise as required by law or by the Alameda
County Tax Collector.

A. Senior Exemption. Any parcel owned and occupied by a person 65 years of age or older
shall be exempt from the education parcel tax upon proper application to the District. Senior
citizens with a current valid exemption from the District's education parcel taxes shall continue
to be exempt from this new tax and not be required to reapply.

{SR136085.DOC) A-2

B.	Supplemental Security Income Exemption. Any parcel owned and occupied by a person
receiving Supplemental Security Income for a disability, regardless of age, shall be exempt from
the education parcel tax upon proper application to the District.

C.	Social Security Disability Insurance Exemption. Any parcel owned and occupied by a
person receiving Social Security Disability Insurance benefits, regardless of age, whose yearly
income does not exceed 250 percent of the 2012 federal poverty guidelines issued by the United
States Department of Health and Human Services, shall be exempt from the education parcel
tax upon proper application to the District.

ACCOUNTABILITY PROVISIONS

Annual Audit. Upon the levy and collection of the education parcel tax, the Board of Education
shall cause an account to be established for deposit of the proceeds, pursuant to Government
Code Section 50075.1. For so long as the tax is collected, the Superintendent of the District shall
cause an independent financial auditor to prepare a report to be filed with the Board of
Education no later than December 31 of each year, commencing December 31, 2016, stating (1)
the amount collected and expended in such year, and (2) the status of any projects or
description of any programs funded. The report may relate to the calendar year, fiscal year, or
other appropriate annual period, as the Superintendent shall determine, and may be
incorporated into or filed with the annual budget, audit, or other appropriate routine report to
the Board of Education.

Specific Purposes. All of the purposes named in this Proposition shall constitute the specific
purposes of the education parcel tax, and proceeds thereof shall be applied only for such
purposes.

LEVY AND COLLECTION

The education parcel tax shall be collected by the Alameda County Treasurer-Tax Collector at
the same time and in the same manner and shall be subject to the same penalties as ad valorem
property taxes collected by the Treasurer-Tax Collector. Unpaid taxes shall bear interest at the
same rate as the rate for unpaid ad valorem property taxes until paid. Any tax levied will become
a lien upon the properties against which taxes are assessed and collectible

The education parcel tax shall be due with respect to every parcel of real property in the District
which receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem property taxes from the Alameda County
Treasurer-Tax Collector's Office. AH property which is otherwise exempt from or on which are
levied no ad valorem property taxes in any year shall also be exempt from the education parcel
tax in such year. In addition, parcels may be exempt from the education parcel tax as described
above under "EXEMPTIONS AND REBATES".

(SR136085.DOC) A-3

The District shall annually provide a list of parcels to the Alameda County tax collection
officials which the District has approved for an exemption in accordance with this Proposition.
The Alameda County Assessor’s determination of exemption or relief for any reason of any
parcel from taxation, other than through either of said exemptions, shall be final and binding
for the purposes of the education parcel tax. Taxpayers wishing to challenge the County
Assessor's determination must do so under the procedures for correcting a misclassification of
property pursuant to Section 4876.5 of the California Revenue and Taxation Code or other
applicable procedures. Taxpayers seeking a refund of any tax paid shall follow the procedures
applicable to property tax refunds pursuant to the California Revenue and Taxation Code.

The Board of Education may adopt such additional or supplemental procedures as it deems
necessary or convenient for the administration of the education parcel tax.

PROTECTION OF FUNDING

In the event the Congress or State Legislature enacts any law, or the U.S. Department of
Education, or the State Department of Education or State Board of Education adopts any rule,
providing that other funding to which the District would otherwise be entitled will be reduced
as a result of the District’s income from the education parcel tax, the Board of Education may
take action as soon as practicable to reduce the amount or rate of the education parcel tax such
that the amount collected will not cause such other funding to be reduced.

SEVERABILITY

The Board of Education hereby declares, and the voters by approving this Proposition concur,
that every section, paragraph, sentence and clause of this Proposition has independent value,
and the Board of Education and the voters would have adopted each provision hereof
regardless of every other provision hereof. Upon approval of this Proposition by the voters,
should any part be found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, all
remaining parts hereof shall remain in full force and effect to the fullest extent allowed by law.

(SR136085.DOC) A-4

EXHIBIT B

ABBREVIATED TEXT OF MEASURE

(This summarizes, in 75 words or less, the full text of the proposition which appears on Exhibit A above.)

"To maintain excellent schools; preserve funding for science, art, music, library services, and
reading and math support; attract and retain exceptional teachers and counselors; limit class
sizes; and keep schools safe and technology and textbooks up-to-date; shall Albany Unified
School District replace an expiring $159/year parcel tax with a temporary, six-year parcel tax of
$278/year, with senior and SSI/SSDI exemptions, adjustments for inflation, independent audits,
and all funds staying local to benefit Albany students?"

Tax - Yes

Tax - No

{SR136085. DOC) B-1

EXHIBIT C

FORMAL NOTICE OF SCHOOL PARCEL TAX ELECTION

NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN to the qualified electors of the Albany Unified School District of
Alameda County, California, that in accordance with the provisions of the Education Code of
the State of California, an election will be held on November 4, 2014, at which election the
following local funding measure shall be submitted to the qualified electors of the District and
voted upon:

"To maintain excellent schools; preserve funding for science, art,
music, library services, and reading and math support; attract and
retain exceptional teachers and counselors; limit class sizes; and
keep schools safe and technology and textbooks up-to-date; shall
Albany Unified School District replace an expiring $159/year
parcel tax with a temporary, six-year parcel tax of $278/year, with
senior and SSI/SSDI exemptions, adjustments for inflation,
independent audits, and all funds staying local to benefit Albany
students?"

Tax - Yes	Tax	-	No

All of the purposes enumerated in the foregoing measure shall be united and voted upon as one
single measure.

The County Superintendent of Schools of Alameda County, by this Notice of Election, has called
the election pursuant to a Resolution of the Board of Education of the Albany Unified School

District, adopted __________,	2014,	in accordance with the provisions of Education Code

Sections 5325 and 5361.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this day of	.	2014.

{SR136085.DOC)C-1