Measure L

Cannabis Business Tax
City of Santa Cruz

Majority Approval Required
Ballot Question:

To protect the quality of life in the City of Santa Cruz and to fund essential city
services such as police, fire, emergency response, youth and senior programs, job
creation, housing, and environmental protection, shall an ordinance be adopted to
impose a tax of no more than 10% (7% when enacted) on gross receipts of cannabis
(marijuana) businesses in the city, subject to audits, with all funds staying local?

Fiscal Impact from City Financial Director:

Measure L, if approved by the voters, would add an ordinance to the Santa Cruz
Municipal Code imposing a business tax, at the time of enactment, of 7% on the gross
receipts of cannabis (medical marijuana) businesses in the City. Measure L would allow
the City Council to increase the rate to no more than 10%. This tax could become
effective in January, 2015, with expected first collections received by the City in
February, 2015.

Use of the Funds. The cannabis business tax revenue would be held in the City's General
Fund and used solely for primary support services that include Police, Fire, Public
Works, Parks & Recreation, community programs and other essential services.

Fiscal Impact. The fiscal impact of this tax cannot be accurately estimated because the
City currently has limited access to gross receipts records of cannabis businesses.
However, when compared to sales tax data, and based on the zoning limitation of no
more than two legally active cannabis businesses, it is estimated that the 7% tax rate
could generate approximately $33,000 in new revenue in the first, partial, fiscal year
and $66,000 to $93,000 for a full tax year. (The ordinance applies to all cannabis
businesses operating in the City, whether or not they are doing so legally.) The cannabis
businesses will be required to file a statement of gross receipts, and pay the business
tax on a monthly basis to the City. A penalty plus interest will be imposed if the tax is
not paid timely.

There will be additional administrative costs to set up reporting procedures as well as
perform routine collection and financial audits. These City costs are estimated to be
approximately $2,200 annually. Additional costs may be incurred for any enforcement
actions.

Accountability. The City's Finance Director is the tax administrator, and has the
authority to examine the books and records of the cannabis businesses to verify the
accuracy of the statement of gross receipts that was filed and the business tax computed
thereon. The Finance Director also has the authority to issue an assessment to a

cannabis business for the estimated amount of tax owed if a statement is not filed and a
tax is not paid by the business.

s/ Marcus A Pimentel
Finance Director
City of Santa Cruz

Impartial Analysis from City Attorney

This ballot measure, if adopted by the voters, would add an ordinance to the Santa Cruz
Municipal Code imposing a cannabis business tax on cannabis (marijuana) businesses
which operate in the City. The ordinance authorizes the City Council to set a maximum
tax rate of ten percent (10%) of gross receipts but sets the initial tax rate at seven
percent (7%) of gross receipts. The ordinance broadly defines "cannabis business" to
include any for-profit or non-profit business which distributes, delivers, dispenses,
exchanges, barters or sells either medical or non-medical cannabis and includes, but is
not limited to, medical marijuana cooperatives and businesses, and any other business
which transports, manufactures, compounds, converts, processes, prepares, stores,
packages, sells at wholesale, or sells at retail, cannabis or products made of cannabis.
The tax is a gross receipts tax imposed on cannabis businesses and is not a sales tax
imposed on qualified patients, primary caregivers or other persons who purchase or
otherwise acquire cannabis for their personal use. All cannabis business tax revenue
will be deposited in the City's General Fund. General Fund revenue is used by the City to
pay for the provision of municipal services to City residents and visitors including the
provision of essential City services. Because the proposed cannabis business tax would
be imposed for general municipal governmental purposes, the ballot measure proposes
a "general tax" as defined by Article XIII of the California Constitution. Accordingly, for
the ballot measure to be adopted, it must receive a simple majority "yes" vote.

This ballot measure has been placed on the ballot by the Santa Cruz City Council.

s/ John G. Barisone
City Attorney

Arguments For Measure L

VOTE YES ON MEASURE L - THE CANNABIS BUSINESS TAX

For over two decades Santa Cruz voters have overwhelmingly supported state and local
laws that provide for safe, compassionate access to medical cannabis for people in our
community whose medical challenges could be alleviated in this way.

The City has been at the forefront of creating laws by which cannabis may be
responsibly provided by prescription, without creating a public nuisance. These existing
ordinances attempt to balance the needs of medical patients, caregivers, and legitimate
medical cannabis businesses, with the need to protect our neighborhoods and open
spaces from illegitimate and illegal operators who damage our forests, divert our
streams, and act without respect for our community.

In recent years the prolonged economic recession caused major reductions in city
services. Measure L will provide new revenues which may be used for many general
purposes, such as public safety, environmental protection, fire services, and community
programs. All revenue collected will stay local, to protect and maintain our
neighborhoods, business districts, parks and open spaces.

This tax is paid by the cannabis businesses — not patients, caregivers or those who
purchase cannabis for personal use.

Measure L creates a business tax only for cannabis businesses, not all businesses. It
does not authorize new cannabis dispensaries or businesses. Measure L is nearly
identical to the proposed cannabis business tax being considered in the unincorporated
county. Passage of the tax ensures consistent regulation across our region.

State law requires that any new tax must be approved by the voters. Measure L is
supported unanimously by the City Council, and will help support essential services to
benefit our community.

Join us in voting YES ON MEASURE L.

s/ Rick Martinez

Deputy Chief of Police

s/ Lynn Robinson

City of Santa Cruz Mayor

s/ Charles Prevedelli, President,

City of Santa Cruz Firefighters
s/ Leslie Conner, Executive Director,

Santa Cruz Community Health Centers
s/ Fred Keeley

President Sempervirens Fund

Arguments Against Measure L

No arguments against Measure L were submitted.