FULL TEXT OF MEASURE D

RESOLUTION NO. 2014-07
OF THE CAMERON ESTATES COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
UNIFORMLY APPLYING THE EXISTING SPECIAL TAX WITHIN THE DISTRICT
AND PROPOSING A BALLOT MEASURE TO INCREASE THE SPECIAL TAX TO
PROVIDE FOR IMPROVMENTS, UPGRADES AND INCREASED
MAINTENANCE OF THE DISTRICT’S ROADS

WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of the Cameron Estates Community Services District wishes to submit to the voters of the District a
proposal to fund vitally necessary improvements and upgrades to the roads within the District and to increase the level of maintenance of the
roads; and

WHEREAS, Government Code § 50075 et seq. provides authority for special districts to impose special taxes; and

WHEREAS, the Board has determined that an increase of the existing tax rate is necessary in order to adequately fund needed road
improvements and upgrades and an increased level of road maintenance within the District; and

WHEREAS, under Measure C, which was passed on May 9, 1989, by more than two-thirds of District voters voting in the election, the
Board has the authority to impose a special tax of up to $250 on each single family residential parcel, each residential unit located on multiple-
zoned residential parcel and each commercial occupancy located on commercial property in the District; and

WHEREAS, the Board wishes to apply the special tax and its proposed increase uniformly across all parcels within the District; and

WHEREAS, the Board has determined that the electors within the District should have the opportunity to decide whether the level of
funding for road improvements, upgrades and maintenance should be increased; and

WHEREAS, Government Code § 53722 provides that a special tax must be submitted to the electorate of the District and approved by a
two-thirds vote of the voters voting on the issue.

NOW THEREFORE, BE IT HEREBY RESOLVED by the Board of Directors of the Cameron Estates Community Services District as
follows:

1. The Board hereby imposes a uniform maximum special tax of $250 per parcel of property within the District.

2. The Board shall submit to the voters the question of whether to increase a special tax within the District for the purpose of needed
improvements, upgrades and an increased level of maintenance of the roads within the District.

3.	A measure shall be placed on the ballot at the statewide general election to be held on November 4, 2014, for an increase of the special
tax within the boundaries of the District to fund road improvements, upgrades and increased maintenance.

4.	The measure shall appear on the ballot in substantially the following form:

Shall the Cameron Estates Community Services District levy a special tax for the purpose of providing vitally
needed road improvements, upgrades, and increased maintenance at an annual rate not to exceed an
increase of $100 per year per parcel over and above the current rate, for a total not to exceed $350 per parcel
per year?

5.	A certified copy of this Resolution shall be delivered to the Office of the El Dorado County Clerk and the County Clerk shall be directed to
conduct said election pursuant to applicable laws of the State of California.

6.	In accordance with applicable laws, the Cameron Estates Community Services District shall reimburse the County of El Dorado for the
cost of such election.

7.	If approved by the electorate as set forth above, said special tax shall be levied and collected in accordance with this resolution and shall
be collected in the same manner and subject to the same penalty as, or with, other charges and taxes fixed and collected by the District or by
the County of El Dorado.

8.	Pursuant to Government Code § 50075.1 the specific purposes of the special taxes are hereby identified as providing road improvements,
upgrades, and maintenance within the District.

9.	The proceeds of the special tax shall only be applied to the specific purposes identified above and shall be deposited into a special
account created for that purpose.

10.	The District shall prepare an annual report pursuant to Government Code § 50075.3 to determine the amount of funds collected and
expended and to identify the purposes for which the special tax funds have been expended.

11.	In the event of any ambiguity, uncertainty or conflict regarding the application of the special tax to a particular parcel of land, such
ambiguity shall be resolved by formal motion of the Board of Directors of the Cameron Estates Community Services District.

09-930

09930

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE D

This measure, if approved by 2/3 of the voters voting on the measure, would authorize a special tax on parcels of real property in the Cameron
Estates Community Services District to be used for the costs of providing road improvements, upgrades to the roads and to increase
maintenance services within the Cameron Estates Community Services District.

This special tax would be in the amount of up to but not exceeding $350 per year per parcel of land located within the boundaries of Cameron
Estates Community Services District. The special tax authorized by this measure would commence in fiscal year 2014/2015 and would
replace an existing benefit assessment of $250 on each single residential parcel, each residential unit located on multiple-zoned residential
parcel and each commercial occupancy located on commercial property within the Cameron Estates Community Services District.

The special tax will be applied uniformly regardless of the zoning designation or level of development and, will be listed as a separate item on
the county property tax bill for each affected parcel of land, and will be collected in the same way as the general property tax.

All laws applicable to the levy, collection, and enforcement of county property taxes, including the provisions for penalties and the procedures
for sale of the property in case of delinquency, shall also apply to the special tax.

State law requires the proceeds from the special tax be applied only to the identified purposes, and that an annual report be made indicating
the amount of funds collected and expended and the status of any project required or authorized to be funded by the proceeds.

This measure requires an affirmative vote of 2/3 or more of all voters voting on the measure in order to pass. The measure was placed on the
ballot by the Board of Directors of the Cameron Estates Community Services District.

A “YES” vote is a vote to authorize the special tax provided in the measure.

A “NO” vote is a vote against the special tax provided in the measure.

Edward L. Knapp
El Dorado County Counsel

NO ARGUMENTS FOR OR AGAINST THIS MEASURE WERE SUBMITTED

09-931

09931