Consolidated

Registrar of Voters

Polling Place Location
on Back Cover
Polls Ope

7:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.

Last Day

To Register To Vote

Quick • Easy • Convenient

Vote-By-Mail

October 6th - October 28th
Application on Back Cover

AVISO IMPORTANTE

Una traduccion en Espanol de
esta Boleta de Muestra y Folleto
de Informacion al Votante puede
obtenerse en la oficina del Registro de

Sample Ballot and Information Pamphlet

Votantes llamando al (951) 486-7200
o 1 (800) 773-VOTE (8683) o visite
nuestro sitio web www.voteinfo.net

COUNTY OF RIVERSIDE REGISTRAR OF VOTERS

2724 Gateway Drive • Riverside, CA 92507
951-486-7200 • 800-773-VOTE (8683) • TTY: 951-697-8966
www.voteinfo.net

SAMPLE BALLOT / BOLETA EJEMPLAR

48 INDIAN GAMING COMPACTS. REFERENDUM. A “Yes” vote approves, and a “No” vote rejects, tribal gaming compacts between the state and the North Fork v Rancheria of Mono Indians and the Wiyot Tribe. Fiscal Impact: One-time payments ($16 million to $35 million) and for 20 years annual payments ($10 million) from Indian tribes to state and local governments to address costs related to the operation of a new casino.  CONVENIOS DE JUEGOS DE AZAR INDfGENAS. REFERENDUM. Un voto “Sf” aprueba, y un voto “No” rechaza los convenios de juegos de azar indfgenas entre el estado y los Indios Mono de North Fork Rancheria y la Tribu Wiyot. Impacto fiscal: Pagos por unica vez ($16 millones a $35 millones) y pagos anuales durante 20 anos ($10 millones) de las tribus indfgenas al estado y los gobiernos locales para solventar los costos relacionados con la operation de un nuevo casino.		YES ^ —  si “ m  NO . — NO “ m
SCHOOL/ESCOLAR		
MT. SAN JACINTO COMMUNITY COLLEGE DISTRICT / DISTRITO UNIVERSITARIO COMUNITARIO DE MT. SAN JACINTO		
A A To exPancl colle9e buildings serving four-year university transfer, veterans’ education, and career training, by expanding career/support facilities for veterans/military, ensuring buildings are accessible for the disabled, upgrading nursing, emergency responder, criminal justice, vocational job training classrooms, updating science labs, electrical systems, technology infrastructure, acquiring, constructing, and repairing classrooms, facilities, sites/equipment, shall Mt. San Jacinto Community College District issue $295,000,000 in bonds at legal rates with annual financial audits, citizens’ oversight of funds, all funds remaining local?		
Para ampliar los edificios de la universidad para servir a la transferencia universitaria de cuatro anos, la education de los veteranos, y la formacion de profesionales, ampliar las instalaciones de carreras/apoyo para veteranos/militares, asegurar edificios que sean accesibles para los discapacitados, actualizar la enfermeria, la respuesta a emergencias, la justicia penal, las aulas de formacion trabajo vocacional, actualizar laboratories de ciencias, sistemas electricos, infraestructura de tecnologia, adquirir, construir y reparar aulas, instalaciones, sitios/equipo, ^debera Distrito Universitario Comunitario de Mt. San Jacinto emitir $295,000,000 en bonos a tasas legales, con auditorias financieras anuales, supervision ciudadana de los fondos, que todos los fondos permanezean localmente?	BONDS YES ^ — BONOS SI “ m	
	BONDS NO . _ BONOS NO “ m	
CITY/CIUDAD		
CITY OF BANNING / CIUDAD DE BANNING		
■ Shall an Ordinance be adopted establishing a general mining tax of 80 cents per ton upon the excavation and processing of rock material, and placing the proceeds of these taxes in the City’s general fund to be spent for general governmental purposes, which includes police, fire, and maintaining streets and public areas; as well as to pay for studying, correcting and reducing the effects of mining of residents and businesses?  ^Debera adoptarse una ordenanza que establezca un impuesto sobre la minerfa en general de 80 centavos por tonelada al excavar y procesar material de roca, y colocar el producto de estos impuestos en el fondo general de la Ciudad para ser desembolsado para fines gubernamentales generates, los cuales incluyen la policla, los bomberos, y el mantenimiento de calles y areas publicas; asi como para pagar para estudiar, corregir y reducir los efectos de la minerfa sobre los residentes y los negocios?		YES ^ —  si “ m  NO . — NO “ m

CA33-3-529

J3

<

GO

o

o

CD

SAMPLE BALLOT / BOLETA EJEMPLAR

MEASURE “J” - CITY OF BANNING

EXHIBIT “A”

ORDINANCE NO. —

AN ORDINANCE OF THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF
BANNING, CALIFORNIA, ESTABLISHING A GENERAL
TAX ON MINING, EXTRACTION AND PROCESSING

WHEREAS, current and past mining and processing operations, which cover over at least 186 acres of non-publicly-owned land area in the
City, impose severe negative environmental impacts upon City residents, businesses, properties, and visitors; and

WHEREAS, the environmental impacts from mining and processing operations include, but are not limited to, deterioration of streets and
other public infrastructure facilities; degradation of air quality; public health and safety hazards; increased noise; slope stability and slope erosion
problems; security and safety concerns; visual blight; water quality impacts; flood dangers due to weakened levees; problems with sand and
particulate matter; and loss of developable land for other uses; and

WHEREAS, over the last two years the City has, through an independent consultant, conducted mining inspections that are documented
through a formal report most recently prepared in December 2013 (the “Mining Report”); and

WHEREAS, principal recommendations of the Mining Report include that current financial assurances and reclamation plans for certain
mine operators in the City are inadequate, that slopes at various quarry locations are probably too steep, that mine operators have mined areas
outside of an approved reclamation plan (including City-owned property that is to be used as an above-ground water tank site), that levees critical
to protect against flooding have been degraded, and that areas that were mined are designated “Low Density Residential” on the General Plan and
Zoning Map, all which constitute serious violations of the Surface Mining and Reclamation Act of 1975 (SMARA); and

WHEREAS, residential properties neighboring mine operations in the City have reported that the City does an insufficient job of monitoring
air, water, and noise impacts caused by mining; and

WHEREAS, current quarries in Banning occupy areas surrounded by residential properties and vacant lands that, absent the quarries, would
otherwise be developable for sales tax generating commercial uses serving existing residential communities, or new residential development, or
recreational uses serving the community’s recreational needs. In short, economic development opportunities in the northeastern corner of the City
are hampered by longstanding mining pits; and

WHEREAS, the City’s budget has no funds available for purposes reasonably related to studying, quantifying, analyzing, monitoring,
administering, enforcing, correcting or mitigating negative impacts in the City from mining and processing activities. As such, the establishment of
a tax is necessary to finance the recommendations made by the Mining Report, to enhance the City’s monitoring and enforcement program, and to
pay for construction, repair, replacement of streets and infrastructure, and undertake other environmental mitigation measures on a going-forward
basis; and

WHEREAS, besides the direct and indirect impacts of mining, the Great Recession beginning in 2008 has had a dramatic impact on the
City’s general fund budget that was evident when City revenues dropped by approximately 33%, requiring a reduction in budgeted personnel of
36%, which included a reduction in police personnel of 33%, cuts in public recreation services and other City services. The end result is that there
is a serious need for additional revenue to find general city services; and

WHEREAS, mining operations are unique businesses in that their operations (i) have significant physical impacts on the land that are difficult
to fully remediate, (ii) the negative environmental impacts affect neighboring properties for the life of the operations and beyond, (iii) the impacts
are extremely long term, often exceeding 50 years, and (iv) very few benefits of the business accrue to those impacted; and

WHEREAS, despite the specific need for funds to deal with mining impacts, due to the City’s general revenue needs, this Measure will be
enacted as a general revenue measure but with the option that the Council can also direct funds towards mitigation of mining impacts; and

WHEREAS, the City’s investigations have shown that the current market price of aggregate ranges in Southern California from $12.00 to
$14.00 per ton. The proposed mining tax, if enacted, would establish a tax rate of $0.80 per ton, which would be less than 10 percent of the average
cost of the mining product per ton. This rate would be adjusted by the consumer price index for general price escalation. The City believes that a
rate in such range is fair and reasonable and not confiscatory under California law; and

WHEREAS, California Government Code Section 37101 authorizes municipalities to regulate and tax the operation of businesses within
their limits and Gov’t Code § 37100.5 authorizes any general law city to impose any tax imposed by charter cities when levied by a vote of the
people. Many general law and charter cities have imposed mining taxes; and

WHEREAS, California Constitution Article XIIIC, Sec. 2(d) requires that in order for a city to impose or increase any general tax, that tax must
be submitted to the electorate and if at an election where Councilmembers are up for election, then a simple majority vote is needed for enactment.

NOW, THEREFORE, THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF BANNING, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. That Banning Municipal Code is hereby amended by adding Chapter 3.18, said Chapter to read as follows:

“Chapter 3.18 MINING TAX AND MINING IMPACT FUND

33-9017-M43

RV 319-022

3.18.010	Purpose and intent.

3.18.020	Definitions.

3.18.030	Mining tax on excavation and processing.

3.18.040	Mining impact fund

3.18.050	Authority to mitigate impacts through development agreement.

3.18.060	Tax Audits & Tax Contests

3.18.070	Modification by Council.

3.18.010	Purpose and intent.

A.	Mining is important statewide industry and regulated by State law under the 1976 Surface Mining and Reclamation Act, Public
Resources Code §§ 2710 etseq. (“SMARA”). State law encourages local regulation permitting local agencies to act as lead agencies. Mining
areas are an important state-wide resource with benefits enjoyed regionally and statewide, as provided in SMARA.

B.	Mining is a significant use in the city with at least 186 acres in mined areas that have been dedicated to the extraction and
processing of rock materials since 1925. Mining is a unique use within the community in terms of the long-term nature of the use and the
extent and significance of its impact on surrounding properties.

C.	Mining impacts include, but are not limited to deterioration of streets and other public infrastructure facilities; degradation of
air quality; public health and safety hazards; increased noise; slope stability and slope erosion problems; security and safety concerns;
visual blight; water quality impacts; impacts on the San Gorgonio River; problems with sand and particulate matter; and loss of developable
land for other uses. The negative impacts of mining are significant, felt on properties beyond the operational boundaries of the pit, and are
experienced locally.

D.	The purpose of this chapter is to establish a comprehensive taxing scheme for mining operations, both to support the City’s
general governmental operations and to raise revenue to study, analyze, monitor, regulate, administer, correct, remediate and mitigate
mining impacts and to facilitate reclamation of mining pits.

E.	Ultimately, it is the city’s goal that mining operations are so conducted as to be a good neighbor to persons residing or working
in the city and that at such time as a mining use is discontinued, the property be restored to a usable condition which is readily adaptable to
alternate land uses and will create no danger to public health or safety. It is the purpose of this chapter to facilitate these goals and ensure
the following:

1.	Adverse environmental effects are prevented or minimized and that mined lands are reclaimed to a usable condition which is
readily adaptable for alternative land uses;

2.	The production and conservation of minerals are encouraged, while giving consideration to values relating to recreation,
watershed, wildlife, range and forage, and aesthetic enjoyment;

3.	Residual hazards to the public health and safety are eliminated.

3.18.020	Definitions.

The definitions set forth in this section shall govern the construction of this chapter.

“Excavation” means the physical removal of rock materials from the earth for use in commercial purposes, whether or not the rock materials
are thereafter processed.

“Mining Impact Fund” means that fund that may be established by the city council to allay the impacts of mining as described in Section
3.18.040.

“Operator” means any person who is engaged in surface mining operations, or who contracts with others to conduct operations on his or her
behalf, except a person who is engaged in surface mining operations as an employee with wages as his or her sole compensation.

“Person” means any individual, firm, association, corporation, organization or partnership, or any city, county, district, or the state or any
department or agency thereof.

“Processing” means, with respect to rock materials, treating, crushing, recrushing, sorting, mixing, remixing or sluicing of rock materials
which originated or were excavated either inside or outside of the corporate boundaries of the city.

“Rock Materials” means rock, sand, gravel, dirt, rock products or similar materials.

3.18.030	Mining tax on excavation and processing.

A.	Tax for Rock Material Excavation/Processina/Transportation. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this code relating
to taxes and special taxes, there is imposed upon each person or entity engaged in the business of excavating, processing and transporting
rock materials from any real property located within the city, for the purpose of commercial use thereof other than on the property where so
excavated, a tax of 80 cents per ton of rock materials so excavated, processed and transported. The excavation, processing, transportation
components of these operations are not taxed separately and the tax applies singly to the whole operation, and even if the processing itself
occurs offsite. For purposes of calculating the tax, tonnage is measured at the transport weigh station and applied to the weight of rock
materials exiting a mining operation for purposes of sale.

B.	Tax for Rock Material Processing. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this code relating to taxes or special taxes, there is

33-9017-M44

RV 319-023

imposed upon each person or entity engaged in the business of importing and processing rock materials to be used as fill for a mining pit at
any location within the city a tax of one-third of the tax for excavation per ton of rock materials so imported, provided that such tax is subject
to modification through a development agreement per Section 3.18.050. The reduced rate is established to encourage reclamation activities.

C.	General Tax. The purposes of the taxes in this section are to raise revenue and are not regulatory. The revenue shall be placed
in the city’s general fund to finance the general operations of the city. Such operations may include, but are not limited to: paying for basic
or enhanced law enforcement or public safety services, park, recreational, and senior services, neighborhood preservation, community
services, infrastructure improvement and maintenance, and other such general services. Additionally, the revenue could be set aside with
the purpose of mitigating mining impacts in accordance with Section 3.18.040.

D.	Cost of Living Adjustment. The taxes imposed in subsections A and B above shall be paid quarterly on the 20th day in the
months of July, October, January and April of each year, and shall be annually adjusted based upon the percentage change equal to the
percentage change in the Los Angeles-Anaheim-Riverside Consumer Price Index (C.P.I.) from July of the current year compared with July
of the prior year. The C.P.I. change shall take place on October 1 of each year.

3.18.040	Mining Impact Fund.

The city reserves the right to establish by resolution or ordinance adopted by the city council a special fund dedicated to the purpose
of mitigating the actual impacts of mining operations in the city. This mining impact fund may be funded by revenues generated by that
general tax set forth in Section 3.18.030. The mining impact fund may be administered by the director over city finance as a special fund of
the city.

A.	Mining impact funds may be expended upon the city’s remediation of actual impacts upon the environment directly or indirectly
caused by mining operations, including without limitation:

1.	Repair, modification, resurfacing, or reconstruction of deteriorated streets and related public infrastructure facilities;

2.	Remediation of toxic or contaminated property resulting from mining and processing activities;

3.	Abatement of degraded air quality;

4.	Abatement of public health and safety hazards, including health and safety hazards caused by access routes, traffic
volumes, and usage conflicts;

5.	Abatement of increased noise;

6.	Remediation of slope instability and slope erosion problems, including potentially unsafe damage to levees, flood
infrastructure and protective berms along the San Gorgonio River;

7.	Remediation of problems with sand and particulate matter and sand, gravel and particulate matter on public rights-
of-way and properties;

8.	Addressing security and safety	concerns;

9.	Abatement of visual blight;

10.	Remediation of water quality impacts;

11.	Addressing loss of developable land for other uses;

12.	Providing loans or grants to owners of property impacted by mining operations for purposes of constructing
improvements to alleviate mining impacts; and

13.	Any other impacts resulting from mining and processing which affect public health, safety and welfare or public
property.

B.	The mining impact funds may also be expended for purposes reasonably related to studying, quantifying, analyzing,
monitoring, administering, enforcing, correcting or mitigating negative impacts in the city from mining and processing activities, whether or
not such impacts are specifically listed herein. This includes the costs of professional services related thereto such as engineering, auditing,
monitoring, financial services, planning, architectural and other consulting services, city administrative expenses, and legal expenses. Legal
services may include defending any legal challenge to the validity of this chapter or any measure or action taken pursuant hereto, the cost of
analyzing and preparing any implementation measure or strategy and the cost of any legal action related to the enforcement of any mining-
related program.

C.	Any expenditure shall be made in accordance with applicable law, whether set forth in ordinance, rule, or regulation of the city
or other governmental agency of appropriate jurisdiction, or state or federal law. All such expenditures shall have a public purpose and be
authorized by valid and applicable law.

3.18.050	Authority to mitigate impacts through development agreement; reduction of mining tax.

Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed as preventing the city from entering into a development agreement with any mining
Operator pursuant to Government Code Sections 65864 et seq. By the terms of such development agreement, the city and a person or
entity having legal or equitable interest in real property dedicated to the excavation and processing of rock material may establish certain
development and operational rights for the property, including limitations upon such development and operational rights and requirements
for specific mitigation measures to be undertaken by the mine Operator. The mining tax rate imposed upon the excavation and processing

33-9017-M45

RV 319-024

of rock material established in Section 3.18.030 may be modified by the terms of such development agreement.

3.18.060	Tax Audits & Tax Contests.

A.	All mine Operators shall maintain detailed records relating to rock material tonnage, sales revenues, and gross income from
rock material sales attributable to mining operations within the city for a period at least three (3) years. The Operator of a rock material
extraction or processing business shall keep and maintain accurate records on all vehicles entering or exiting the facility engaged in activity
that could result in taxation under Section 3.18.030. The records kept by the Operator shall contain the following information: (i) The size,
empty weight and load capacity of each vehicle entering or exiting his facility that is engaged in activity that could result in taxation under
Section 3.18.030, and (ii) The loaded weight of each vehicle carrying rock material to or from the facility, and (iii) For each day, the number
of vehicles engaged in carrying rock material to or from the facility. Accurate scales shall be loaded on or immediately adjacent to the facility
and shall be kept and maintained in good condition by the owner or operator of the rock material extraction and processing business and
shall be routinely and regularly tested in order to ensure its accurate calibration. It shall be the responsibility of the Operator of the rock
material extraction or processing business to operate the scales so that accurate weights are made and recorded.

B.	No owner or operator of a rock material extraction or processing business shall permit any vehicle carrying any material for
which a tax could be imposed under Section 3.18.130 to enter or leave the facility without a weight ticket. A receipt of each ticket shall be kept
and maintained by the Operator of the business pursuant to subsection (A) above. Each weight ticket shall contain the following information:
(i) The size, empty weight and load capacity of the vehicle, and (ii) The loaded weight of the vehicle carrying rock, sand or gravel to or from
the facility, and (iii) The cargo weight.

C.	The city shall have the right at any time during regular business hours to inspect such records upon seventy-two (72) hours’
notice for purposes of allowing the city, or its duly authorized representative, to conduct a financial review or audit to verify the accuracy
of taxes paid pursuant to Section 3.18.030. Should a city audit find that the mine Operator has underpaid taxes paid pursuant to Section

3.18.030	by a shortfall of or exceeding 1% of the taxes actually due in any one-year period, the Operator shall bear all costs of the city's audit.

D.	No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit, action or proceeding in any court
against the city or an officer thereof to prevent or enjoin the collection of taxes, fees or fines sought to be collected pursuant to any provision
or resolution ordinance of the city for the payment of all taxes, fees or fines. Payment of all taxes, fees or fines, interest and penalties shall
be required as a condition precedent to seeking judicial review of the validity or application of any such tax, fees or fines, and such payment
shall continue pending completion or final judgment in said judicial action.

3.18.070	Modification by Council.

Notwithstanding this Ordinance's adoption by the People, the City Council shall be free to amend any provision hereof through the
regular process of adoption of ordinances under State law, provided that the amendment is consistent with the intent hereof, further the
purposes of this Chapter, and except that the tax rate as set forth in Section 3.18.030 may only be increased by the People.”

SECTION 2. Severability. If any phrase, clause, sentence, subsection, or section of this Ordinance is for any reason held to be invalid, such
invalidity shall not affect the validity of any other part of this Ordinance. The People hereby declare that they would have passed this Ordinance and
each phrase, clause, sentence, subsection, or section hereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more of such phrases, clauses, sentences,
subsections, or sections bad been declared invalid. Any court reviewing the validity of this Ordinance shall interpret it insofar as possible as to make
it valid and binding, and to carry out the intent of the voters to create a fund to pay for the foregoing measures to the full extent permitted by law.

PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED by the People on the________________day of______, 20_.

Deborah Franklin, Mayor

ATTEST:

Marie A. Calderon, City Clerk

APPROVED AS TO FORM AND
LEGAL CONTENT:

David J. Aleshire, City Attorney
Aleshire & Wynder, LLP

33-9017-M46

RV 319-025

This Measure was placed on the ballot by the Banning City Council
and asks whether the voters of the City of Banning desire to approve
an ordinance establishing a general tax upon rock, sand and gravel
mining operations in the City. The proposed tax would apply to the
excavation and processing of rock, sand and gravel materials at a rate
not-to-exceed eighty cents per ton. The Banning City Council could, in
its discretion, set the tax at a lower per-ton rate. The proposed mining
tax includes a provision for annual automatic cost of living changes.

As a general tax, proceeds from the proposed tax would be deposited
into the City’s general fund to be spent for general governmental
purposes, such as police, fire, and maintaining streets and public
areas. However, the Measure also gives the Banning City Council the
option, without any obligation, of creating a “Mining Impact Fund”. This
fund, if established, would be a separate account into which General
Fund proceeds may be deposited to pay for the monitoring, mitigation
and remediation of mining impacts upon the environment. Under the
ordinance, the following are examples of proper expenditures for
remediating mining impacts:

•	Remediation of deteriorated streets and other public
infrastructure facilities;

•	Remediation of toxic or contaminated property resulting from
mining and processing activities;

•	Abatement of public health and safety hazards, including
health and safety hazards caused by access routes, traffic
volumes, and usage conflicts;

•	Remediation of slope instability and slope erosion problems,
including potentially unsafe damage to levees, flood
infrastructure and protective berms along the San Gorgonio
River;

•	Remediation of problems with sand and particulate matter
and sand, gravel and particulate matter on public rights-of-
way and properties;

•	Providing loans or grants to owners of property impacted by
mining operations for purposes of constructing improvements
to alleviate mining impacts; and

•	Abatement of air quality, noise, water quality and other health
and safety impacts;

The proposed ordinance also specifically reserves to the City the right
to enter into a development agreement that may waive or relinquish
some of the established mining tax requirements in exchange for land-
use or environmental concessions from a mine operator.

Under Proposition 218, a statewide initiative adopted in November of
1996, the mining tax could only be increased beyond the 80 cents per
ton by a vote of the people, but the ordinance gives the Council the
ability to make changes to the ordinance other than increasing the rate.

Under Proposition 218, any general tax must be approved by a majority
of the voters. Your “Yes” vote means that you want the City to enact the
proposed mining tax. Your “No” vote means that you do not want the
City to enact the proposed mining tax.

By:	City Attorney

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE “J”

Measure “J” will not tax any residents or businesses, except Banning
mines extracting rock, sand and/or gravel. Measure “J” would require
mining operations to pay $.80 for every ton of material extracted, with
the monies going to pay for general City services.

Banning City revenues have dropped by approximately 33% as a result
of the recent recession, requiring a similar reduction in police and other
City personnel. Measure “J” is proposed to help the City fund basic public
services like fire, police, recreation, planning, code enforcement, street
repair and other services that benefit the City’s residents.

While the vast majority of Banning businesses pay sales tax to fund
these City services, mining operations currently pay none - even
though the mines occupy over 180 acres in the City, and cause
significant environmental effects. Several years ago Banning’s largest
mine operator made an arrangement to have the sales taxes from its
mining operations paid to Corona. This left other cities, like Banning, to
bear the environmental impacts of the mine operation without getting
any sales tax income. To correct this, the Measure “J” mining tax is
proposed. Such mining taxes have been adopted in various California
cities.

Besides limited revenues for basic public services, the City lacks the
funds needed to monitor City mines as required by law and to mitigate
mine-related environmental impacts. Banning residents have reported
deterioration of streets and traffic conditions, increased dust and noise,
erosion problems, visual blight and water quality problems from mining
operations in Banning. Measure J gives the Banning City Council the
option of creating a special fund to collect the taxes from Measure “J” in
order to remediate current and future negative environmental impacts
caused by mining operations to the residents of Banning.

By:	Don Peterson

Jerry Westholder
Edward Miller
Arthur L. Welch
Deborah Franklin

The above statement is an impartial analysis of an
Ordinance to be adopted. If you desire a copy of the
ordinance, please call the elections official’s office at
951-922-3102 and a copy will be mailed at no cost to
you.

_______________NO	ARGUMENT	FILED	AGAINST	MEASURE	“J”

33-9017-M47

RV 319-026