MARIN COUNTY FREE LIBRARY MEASURE A	
Mk MEASURE A: To provide criti- cal funding to: upgrade local libraries, prevent closures, and maintain library hours; provide children, teen, senior and disabled programs inch education support; maintain books and di tions; enhance library facilities and ADA: and ensure local funding can’t be taken 1 shall Marin County Free Library extend approved 2010, $49 parcel tax for 9 years CPI adjustment, including independent c sight and senior citizen exemptions?	YES  NO  iding public igital collec- iccessibility; i>y the State, the current with annual dtizen over-

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS
OF MEASURE A

MARIN COUNTY FREE LIBRARY
SPECIAL PARCEL TAX

This Measure was placed on the ballot by the Marin
County Board of Supervisors.

If this Measure is approved by a two-thirds vote, Resolu-
tion No. 2014-17 of the Board of Supervisors of Marin
County establishing a special tax of Forty-Nine Dollars
($49.00) per parcel for maintaining and providing essen-
tial funding to protect library services, commencing in fis-
cal year 2015-2016 and continuing for a period of nine (9)
years, shall be confirmed. An exemption is created for
owners aged sixty-five (65) years or older who use the par-
cel as his or her principal place of residence.

s/STEVEN M. WOODSIDE
County Counsel

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE A

MARIN COUNTY FREE LIBRARY
Vote YES to renew Measure A for Marin libraries -

protect important programs and services for children and
people with disabilities, keep materials collections up-to-
date, and most importantly prevent branches from closing
and operating hours from being cut.

Our Marin County libraries are an extremely valuable com-
munity resource. Since 2010 there has been a 24% increase
in library visits and a 26% increase in material circulation.
Renewing Measure A is critical to protecting services that
are relied upon by many, including children, seniors and
people with disabilities.

Thanks to Measure A, there were 38,886 participants in
youth and teen programs in 2013 alone. Measure A fund-
ing allows our libraries to provide computer access for
those without home access, and offer critical job-training
and employment assistance services.

Most importantly. Measure A ensures that all branches
remain open and available to the public.

Without Measure A this essential source of local funding
will expire and our libraries would be forced to cut hours,
collections and services.

All Measure A funds will remain under local control to
support Marin County libraries - nothing can be cut by the
State or redirected for other purposes.

Vote Yes on A:

•	Maintain library hours and prevent closures

•	Enhance and maintain collections of books and dig-
ital materials

•	Maintain programs and services for children

•	Protect services and ensure access for people with
disabilities

•	Provide access to computers and job training pro-
grams for all residents

Fiscal Accountability is Required:

•	All funds stay under local control to support our libra-
ries - nothing can be taken or redirected by the State

•	Oversight and reports by a newly appointed inde-
pendent Citizens’ Oversight Committee

•	Seniors are eligible for an exemption from the cost
Measure A has been critical to maintaining hours, prevent-
ing closures, and protecting important programs. Vote YES
on A to renew this funding and protect our local libraries!
s/JARED HUFFMAN

Member of Congress, 2nd District
s/ROBERT BERNER
Former Executive Director, Marin Agricultural Land Trust
s/ALISON DANA HOWARD
Measure A Oversight Committee, MCFL Library
Commission, Professor, Dominican University
s/J. DIETRICH STROEH
Former Novato Citizen of the Year, Former President,
Novato Chamber of Commerce
s/ELISABETH “SUKI” SENNETT
Vice President, League of Women Voters of Marin County

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE A
WAS SUBMITTED.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE A
RESOLUTION NO. 2014-17
RESOLUTION OF THE MARIN COUNTY BOARD
OF SUPERVISORS OF THE MARIN COUNTY
FREE LIBRARY CALLING FOR AN ELECTION
TO IMPOSE A SPECIAL TAX UPON PARCELS
LOCATED WITHIN THE COUNTY OF MARIN FOR
THE PURPOSE OF PROVIDING ESSENTIAL
FUNDING TO PROTECT AND MAINTAIN
LIBRARY SERVICES

WHEREAS, the Board of Supervisors determines that
it is the best interest of property owners within the County
Free Library to place a levy on parcels in the Marin
County Library to provide critical funding for library ser-
vices and facilities for the residents of the District and to
fund said services through imposition of a special tax; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to California Education Code
Section 19173; California Government Code Sections
29100, et seq. and 50075, et seq., Revenue and Taxation
Code Section 2151, et seq., and in compliance with Cali-
fornia Constitution Article XIIIC, the Board of Super-
visors is hereby authorized to adopt this resolution to
establish and impose (subject to voter approval) a special
tax upon all taxable real property located within the Marin
County Free Library; and

WHEREAS, Marin County voters previously adopted
a special tax for library services for the Marin County Free
Library, for the fiscal years 2010-2011, which is set to
expire in 2014-2015.

WHEREAS, the Board of Supervisors proposes to
renew the special tax in the amounts specified below
beginning fiscal year 2015-2016 and continuing through
fiscal year 2023-2024; and

WHEREAS, the special tax continuing for a period of
nine (9) years, if approved by the electorate, will not ex-
ceed the spending limit pursuant to California Constitution
Article XIIIB; and

WHEREAS, the tax rate will increase annually com-
mensurate with the annual percentage increase to the San
Francisco-Oakland-San Jose Price Index for All Urban
Consumers (“CPI”), not to exceed 3% annually, and
WHEREAS, the Board of Supervisors conducted a
public hearing on February 25,2014.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT FURTHER RE-
SOLVED that the special tax established by this
Resolution shall be submitted to the registered voters
within the Marin County Free Library in the primary
Election on June 3, 2014. The question submitted to the
voters shall read substantially as follows:

To provide critical funding to: upgrade local
libraries, prevent closures, and maintain library
hours; provide children, teen, senior and disabled
programs including public education support;
maintain books and digital collections; enhance
library facilities and ADA accessibility; and ensure
local funding can’t be taken by the State, shall
Marin County Free Library extend the current
approved 2010, $49 parcel tax for 9 years with

annual CPI adjustment, including independent citi-
zen oversight and senior citizen exemptions?

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the special tax is
for the specific purpose of bringing libraries up-to-date,
preventing library closures, maintaining library hours, pre-
serving educational and job-seeking resources for low-
income residents and preventing staff lay-offs, maintain-
ing collections of books, CDs, DVDs, digital materials
and services; enhance ADA accessibility; and ensuring
local funding that can’t be taken by the State.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the proceeds for
the special tax be applied only to the specific purposes
stated above.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that should the elec-
torate approve the special tax, a special account will be
created into which the special tax proceeds will be
deposited.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the chief fiscal
officer is hereby directed to prepare an annual report pur-
suant to Government Code Section 50075.3.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Marin
County Board of Supervisors will appoint an independent
citizen oversight committee to ensure that the funds are
spent as described above.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that a “parcel” shall
be defined as any parcel of land, developed or undevel-
oped, wholly or partially located within the District, for
which the County Assessor of Marin County has assigned
an assessor’s identification number, provided, however,
that any such parcels which are contiguous, held under the
identical ownership, may, upon approval of an application
of the owners and/or authorized designee thereof to the
Director of County Library Services or his/her designee,
be treated as a single parcel for purposes for this special
tax.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that any owner age
sixty-five (65) years and over of a parcel used solely for
owner-occupied single family residential purposes may
obtain an exemption from the special tax upon approval of
an application of such owner submitted to the Director of
County Library Services or his/her designee.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that parcels which
are classified by County Assessor Use Codes 12, 13, 15,
and 53-90 are exempt from this special tax.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that pursuant to the
provisions of Elections Code Section 1002, the Board of
Supervisors of the Marin County Free Library authorizes
and directs the Marin County Clerk/Registrar of Voters to
render all services necessary for the conduct of the elec-
tion. The costs of the ballot election shall be borne by the
Marin County Free Library.

BE IT RESOLVED that the Marin County Tax
Collector shall collect the special tax annually in the same
manner and subject to the same penalties as County prop-
erty taxes are collected. The County shall be entitled to
deduct its reasonable costs incurred collecting the special
tax before such tax is remitted to the Marin County Free
Library.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the special tax
shall be deemed established and shall be in effect begin-
ning with the 2015-2016 fiscal year upon certification of
the election results evidencing approval by at least two-
thirds of the registered voters voting thereon.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that this resolution
shall be liberally construed to achieve its purposes and
preserve its validity. If any section, subsection, sentence,
clause or phrase of this resolution is for any reason held to
be unconstitutional or invalid, such decision shall not
affect the validity of the remaining portion of this resolu-
tion. The Board of Supervisors hereby declares that it
would have passed this resolution and every section, sub-
section, sentence, clause or phrase thereof, irrespective of
the fact that any one or more sections, subsections, sen-
tences, clauses or phrases be declared unconstitutional or
invalid.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that pursuant to
Government Code Section 50077.5 and Code of Civil
Procedure Section 860, any judicial action or proceeding
to attack, review, set aside, or annul this special tax, if
approved by the voters, shall be commenced within 60
days of the effective date of this resolution.

PASSED AND ADOPTED at a regular meeting of the
Board of Supervisors of the Marin County Free Library
held on this 25th day of February 2014, by the following
vote:

AYES:	SUPERVISORS Judy Arnold, Susan L.

Adams, Steve Kinsey, Katie
Rice, Kathrin Sears

NOES:	NONE

ABSENT: NONE

s/KATHRIN SEARS
President, Board of Supervisors

ATTEST:

s/M. S.HYMEL

Clerk

MCA-3