Ballot Title

The ballot title for Proposition A was:[i]

An Ordinance of the City of Long Beach, California, amending the Long
Beach municipal code by adding section 3.80.261 relating to a marijuana
business license general tax.[5]

Full text

The full text of the city ordinance that was enacted by the approval of Proposition A is
available here.

Analysis

City Attorney Charles Parkin issued the following as an impartial analysis of measure
A: [2]

Voter approval of Measure A would amend the Long Beach Municipal
Code to establish a new business license tax on medical marijuana
businesses operating in the City of Long Beach if the City Council
rescinds the current ban on medical marijuana sales and adopts a
regulatory ordinance. This business license tax is a “general tax” and
therefore must be approved by the voters. Revenues from the tax would
be deposited in the City’s general fund which is used to pay for police and
fire protection, senior and youth programs, street repairs, parks and
recreation, code enforcement, libraries, employee salaries and benefits
and other City services. Measure A was placed on the ballot by the Long
Beach City Council.

This measure, if approved, would impose on medical marijuana
businesses a tax of up to ten percent (10%) of gross receipts for medical
marijuana sales, with an initial tax rate of six percent (6%) and a tax of up
to fifty ($50.00) dollars per square foot on all improvements used by the
medical marijuana business as a cultivation facility or grow site, with an
initial tax rate of fifteen dollars ($15.00). Medical marijuana businesses
that qualify under state law as exempt 501(c)(3) nonprofit organizations
would pay ten dollars ($10.00) per square foot on all business
improvements, instead of paying a tax based on the gross receipts of the
business. The square footage tax rates would be adjusted annually for
inflation as measured by the Los Angeles-Riverside-Orange County Area
Consumer Price Index.

A “yes” vote on this proposition is a vote to approve the medical marijuana
business license tax in the event the City Council rescinds the ban on
medical marijuana sales and adopts a regulatory ordinance. A “no” vote is
a vote to reject this tax.[5]

Support

Supporters

• The Long Beach Collective Association (LBCA)

The Long Beach Collective Association consisted of the following marijuana
collectives: [6]

•	562 Discount Meds, Inc.

•	ATS — Alternative Therapeutic Solutions

•	Avalon Wellness Collective

•	Calm & Collective Wellness Center

•	Care Alternative Meds

•	Chronic Pain Releaf Center

•	LB Collective

•	Long Beach Green Room

City council

The chosen tax bill was approved by the Long Beach city council in an eight to one
vote.[i]

Arguments for

Supporters of Proposition A, including the Long Beach Collective Association, made the
following arguments in favor of the approval of Proposition A:[7]

•	Because the city council would be motivated to allow and regulate medical
marijuana in the city by Proposition A taxes, the legitimate market would take
over the black market. This would make the city a safer place.

•	Proposition A would bring in essential revenue to the city coffers, money that
is necessary for projects such as city improvement, public works, after-school
programs and affordable housing.

LBCA Boardmember Adam Hijazi said, “The majority of the people we’ve talked to do
not seem to have a problem with the [proposed] tax. And if it’s going to help public
funding—whether it’s police, fire, parks, potholes, whatever it is—I think everybody is
kind of okay with it.”[8]

The official arguments submitted in favor of Proposition A were authored by the attorney
for the LBCA and are available here.[7]

Opposition

Opponents

•	Councilwoman Gerrie Schipske

•	Larry King, Long Beach resident

City council

The chosen tax bill was approved by the Long Beach city council in an eight to one
vote. The sole dissenter was Councilwoman Gerrie Schipske.[i]

Arguments against

Schipske expressed concern that the tax would be burdensome on patients. She also
pointed out that other prescription medicine is not taxed in California.[i]

The official arguments against Proposition A were written and submitted by Larry King,
a seventh district council candidate and dispensary manager, and are available here.

The official statement in opposition to Proposition A included the following arguments:[9]

•	The taxes proposed by Proposition A are too high and are unfair to patients.

•	Proposition A opens the city up to lawsuits because it was hastily pushed
through the city council and was ill conceived.

King also wrote, “This new measure was hastily pushed through Council to create an
issue for this election and is ill conceived. No other prescribed medicine is taxed in
California. And no other business in Long Beach has even been taxed on both gross
sales and square footage combined. [...] A tax on marijuana would be acceptable for
recreational purposes, just like alcohol. But this is MEDICINE, which is not taxed in
California.”[8]

The full text of the legislation that would be enacted by City of Long Beach Proposition
A:[i]

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF LONG BEACH, CALIFORNIA
AMENDING THE LONG BEACH MUNICIPAL CODE BY ADDING
SECTION 3.80.261 RELATING TO A MARIJUANA BUSINESS LICENSE
GENERAL TAX THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF LONG BEACH DO
ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1. The Long Beach Municipal Code is amended by adding
Section 3.80.261 to read as follows:

3.80.261

A.

Marijuana Businesses.

Annual Business License Tax.

1.	Every Marijuana Business whether it is a "not for profit," a "nonprofit," or
a "Non-Profit Organization," as defined in this Section, or a for-profit
business, shall pay an annual business license tax in accordance with
Chapter 3.80 of this Code and the Sections and Subsections hereunder.

2.	For the purposes of this Section, a Marijuana Business and a Marijuana
Cultivation Facility are each considered to be a business as that term is
defined in Long Beach Municipal Code 3.80.133.

3.	For the purposes of this Section, a Marijuana Business and a Marijuana
Cultivation Facility are not considered to be a religious or charitable
organization as defined in Section 3.80.320 (Exemption - Religious and
charitable organizations).

4.	For the purposes of this Section, "Marijuana Business" shall mean any
activity that involves, but is not limited to planting, cultivating, harvesting,
transporting, dispensing, delivering, selling at retail or wholesale,
manufacturing, compounding, converting, processing, preparing, storing,
packaging or testing, any part of the plant cannabis sativa L, or any of its
derivatives.

5.	For the purposes of this Section, a not for profit, a nonprofit, or a
"Non-Profit Organization" shall mean any association, corporation or other
entity that is exempt from taxation measured by income or gross receipts
under Article XIII, Section 26 of the California Constitution.

6.	For the purposes of this Section, "Gross Receipts" shall mean any
transfer of title or possession, exchange or barter, conditional or
otherwise, in any manner or by any means whatsoever, of tangible
personal property for a consideration including any monetary
consideration for marijuana whatsoever, including, but not limited to,
membership dues, reimbursements or the total amount, in any calendar
year of cash or in-kind contributions, including all operating costs related
to the growth, cultivation or provision of marijuana or any transaction
related thereto. The term "Gross Receipts" shall also include the total
amount, in any calendar year, of the sale price of all sales, the total
amount charged or received for the performance of any act, service or
employment of whatever nature it may be, whether or not such service,
act or employment is done as a part of or in connection with the sale of
goods, wares, merchandise, for which a charge is made or credit allowed,
including all refunds, cash credits and properties of any amount or nature,
any amount for which credit is allowed by the seller to the purchaser
without any deduction therefrom, on account of the cost of the property
sold, the cost of materials used, the labor or service cost, interest paid or
payable, losses, or any other expense whatsoever; provided that cash
discounts allowed or payment on sales shall not be included. "Gross
Receipts" shall also include the amount of any federal, manufacturer's or
importer's excise tax included in the price of property sold, even though
the manufacturer or importer is also the retailer thereof and whether or not
the amount of such tax is stated as a separate charge. "Gross Receipts"
shall not include the amount of any federal tax imposed on or with respect
to retail sales whether or not the amount of such tax is stated as a
separate charge. "Gross Receipts" shall not include the amount of any
federal tax imposed on or with respect to retail sales whether imposed
upon the retailer or the consumer and regardless of whether or not the
amount of federal tax is stated to customers as a separate charge, or any
California state, city or city and county sales or use tax required by law to
be included in or added to the purchase price and collected from the
consumer or purchaser, or such part of the sales price of any property
previously sold and returned by the purchaser to the seller which is
refunded by the seller by way of cash or credit allowances given or taken
as part payment on any property so accepted for resale. "Gross Receipts"
shall be calculated without any deduction on account of any of the
following:

a.	The cost of tangible property sold or

bartered;

b.	The cost of materials or products used,

labor or service cost, interest paid, losses, or other expense; or

c.	The cost of transportation of the

marijuana, or other property or product.

7.	For the purposes of this Section, "Square Foot" or "Square Footage"
shall mean the sum of the gross horizontal areas of all floors, including
garages, carports, porches or similar structures, parking structures, usable
basement areas, cellars, hallways, or common areas below the roof and
within the outer surface of the main walls of buildings (or the center lines
of party walls separating such buildings or portions thereof) or within the
lines drawn parallel to and two feet (2') within the roof line of any building
or portion thereof without walls (which includes Square Footage of all
porches), and including pedestrian walkways or corridors. For purposes of
this Section, the portion of a site devoted to retail sales shall not be
included in the Square Footage calculation unless it is for a nonprofit as
defined by this Chapter.

8.	For the purposes of this Section, a "Marijuana Business," "Cultivation
Facility" or "Grow Site" shall mean the Square Footage of any place or
location where marijuana or any of its derivatives is cultivated, grown,
harvested, packaged, processed or stored.

B.	Business license tax rates for Marijuana Businesses and Cultivation
Facilities.

1.	Every Marijuana Business shall pay business tax at a rate of up to ten
percent (10%) of Gross Receipts. The tax shall be initially set at a rate of
six percent (6%). The tax under this Chapter shall not be increased on
Marijuana Businesses unless and until the City Council by ordinance
takes action, and the tax rate shall not exceed ten percent (10%) of Gross
Receipts.

2.	Notwithstanding the maximum tax rate often percent (10%) of Gross
Receipts imposed under Subsection B.I., the City Council may in its

discretion at any time by ordinance implement a lower tax rate for all
Marijuana Businesses, as defined in such ordinance, subject to the
maximum rate often percent (10%) of Gross Receipts. The City Council
may by ordinance increase any such tax rate from time to time, not to
exceed the maximum tax rate of ten percent (10%) of Gross Receipts
established under Subsection B.l.

3.	In addition to the foregoing, the owner, operator, or lessee of any
"Marijuana Business," "Cultivation Facility" or "Grow Site" existing to
supply marijuana to a Marijuana Business shall pay a tax of up to fifty
dollars ($50.00) per Square Foot on all improvements owned, rented,
leased or otherwise occupied or used by a Cultivation Facility or Grow
Site. The tax shall initially be set at a rate of fifteen dollars ($15) per
Square Foot. The City Council may by ordinance increase any such tax
rate from time to time, not to exceed the maximum tax rate of fifty dollars
($50) per Square Foot.

4.	Notwithstanding Section 3.80.320 of this Code, there is imposed on
every Marijuana Business that is a not for profit, a non profit, or Non-Profit
Organization, or a for profit business, including all of its ancillary locations,
regardless of the number of square feet it occupies, a tax of ten dollars
($10.00) per Square Foot on all business improvements occupied by that
Marijuana Business and Cultivation Facility or Grow Site. For the purpose
of this Section, all of the square feet of improvements owned, rented,
leased or otherwise occupied or used by a Marijuana Business within the
City shall be cumulated.

5.	All Marijuana Businesses or Marijuana Cultivation Facilities shall pay a
minimum tax of one thousand dollars

C.	Modification, Repeal or Amendment.

The City Council may repeal the ordinance codified in this Section, or
amend it in a manner which does not result in an increase in the tax or
taxes imposed herein, without further voter approval. If the City Council
repeals said ordinance or any provision of this Section, it may
subsequently reenact it without voter approval, as long as the reenacted
ordinance or Section does not result in an increase in the tax or taxes
imposed herein.

D.	Administration.

The City Manager, or designee, and/or the City Council by ordinance, may
promulgate regulations to implement and administer this Section
including, but not limited to regulations allowing Marijuana Businesses to
remit taxes less frequently than monthly.

E.	Annual Adjustment.

The taxes imposed by this Section shall be adjusted annually by the
Director of Financial Management. Beginning on July 1, 2016, and on July
1 of each succeeding year thereafter, the amount of each tax imposed by
this Section shall be adjusted equivalent to the most recent change in the
annual average of the Consumer Price Index ("CPI") for all urban
consumers in the Los Angeles-Riverside-Orange County areas as
published by the United States Government Bureau of Labor Statistics;
however no adjustment shall decrease any tax imposed by this Section.
For the purposes of calculating the annual adjustment factor under this
Section, the base year shall be that year ending with December 31, 2014.
Rates shall next be adjusted on July 1,2016, and annually thereafter,
based on the annually calculated change from the base year. The July 1,
2016 adjustment shall be the change in the average CPI for the year
ending December 31,2015.

F.	Reporting and Remittance.

In order to aid in the City's collection of taxes due under this Section and
to ensure that all Marijuana Businesses and Cultivation Sites are taxed
consistently to the best of the City's ability, beginning as set forth in
Section K, below, and monthly thereafter, each Marijuana Business shall
report to the City any Gross Receipts received during the reporting period
and shall likewise remit to the City the taxes due and owing during said
period. For purposes of this Section, taxes shall begin to accrue on the
date that a person or entity first receives a business license or other
permit to operate as a Marijuana Business or Cultivation Site. Square
Footage payments shall be made annually at the beginning of the
calendar year and should be based on the most recent County Assessors
records, pro-rated based on the number of months of operation.

G.	Delinquent date-Penalty.

Any individual or entity who fails to pay the taxes required by this Section
within thirty (30) days after the due date shall pay in addition to the taxes a

penalty for nonpayment in a sum equal to twenty-five percent (25%) of the
total amount due. Additional penalties will be assessed in the following
manner: ten percent (10%) shall be added on the first day of each
calendar month following the month of the imposition of the twenty five
percent (25%) penalty if the tax remains unpaid; up to a maximum of one
hundred percent (100%) of the tax payable on the due date. Receipt of the
tax payment in the office shall govern the determination of whether the tax
is delinquent. Postmarks will not be accepted as adequate proof of a
timely payment.

H.	Records Inspection.

Whenever it is necessary to examine any books or records, including tax
returns, of any Marijuana Business or Cultivation Site in the City to
ascertain the amount of any tax due pursuant to this Section, the City shall
have the power and authority to examine such necessary books and
records at any reasonable time including, but not limited to, during normal
business hours. Records must be maintained for no less than seven (7)
years.

I.	Suspension, Revocation and Appeal.

The provisions of Sections 3.80.429.1 (Suspension or Revocation) and
Section 3.80.429.5 (Appeal of License Revocation) shall apply in the case
of Marijuana Businesses or Cultivation Sites governed by this Section.

J.	Application of Provisions.

No business license permit issued under the provisions of this Article, or
the payment of any tax required under the provisions of this Article shall
be construed as authorizing the conduct or continuance of any illegal
business or of a legal business in an illegal manner. Nothing in this
Section implies or authorizes that any activity connected with the
distribution or possession of cannabis is legal unless otherwise authorized
and allowed by California and federal law. Nothing in this Section shall be
applied or construed as authorizing the sale of marijuana.

K.	Operative Date.

This ordinance establishing a medical Marijuana Business tax shall only
become operative 1) if the City repeals Section 5.89 of the Long Beach
Municipal Code (banning the sale of marijuana in the City of Long Beach)

and 2) if the City adopts a regulatory scheme to permit cultivation,
dispensing or sale of medical marijuana. The tax shall become effective
on the effective date of the regulatory ordinance. Section 2. If any section,
sentence, clause, phrase, or portion of this ordinance is for any reason
held to be invalid or unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction,
the remaining sections, sentences, clauses, phrases, or portions of this
ordinance shall nonetheless remain in full force and effect. The people of
the City of Long Beach hereby declare that they would have adopted each
section, sentence, clause, phrase, or portion of this Ordinance,
irrespective of the fact that anyone or more sections, sentences, clauses,
phrases, or portions of this Ordinance be declared invalid or
unenforceable and, to that end, the provisions of this Ordinance are
severable.

Section 3.

As provided in Section 2001 of the Long Beach City Charter, if a majority
of those electors voting on this ordinance vote in favor of same, it shall be
adopted upon a declaration of the result of such ballot by the City Council,
and it shall take effect ten (10) days after that date, or the effective date of
the regulatory ordinance, whichever is later.[2]