Ballot question

The question on the ballot:[i]

Shall an ordinance be adopted that amends the real estate transfer tax so
that for commercial and non-commercial real estate sold for one million
dollars or more, the tax rate would be $9 for each thousand dollars of
sales price? [2]

Impartial analysis

The following impartial analysis was prepared for Measure H:[3]

BALLOT MEASURE AMENDING THE MUNICIPAL CODE TO SET THE
REAL PROPERTY TRANSFER TAX RATE AT NINE DOLLARS PER
THOUSAND DOLLARS OF SALE PRICE FOR ALL SALES OF ONE
MILLION DOLLARS OR MORE

This measure, placed on the ballot by the City Council, proposes to raise
local City of Santa Monica revenues by increasing the real estate transfer
tax charged and received by the City of Santa Monica. The current tax
rate is $3.00 per $1,000 of sale price, with fractional parts of $1,000
rounded upward for purposes of calculating the tax. Under the measure,
the new tax would be $9.00 per $1,000 of sale price (or fractional part of
$1,000) for properties sold for $1,000,000 or more. Transfers for less than
$1,000,000 would continue to be taxed by the City at the existing rate of
$3.00 per $1,000 of sale price.

All California counties, including Los Angeles County, also collect a real
estate transfer tax. The amount of that tax is $1.10 per $1,000 of sale
price. So, if the proposed measure is approved by the voters, a sale of
real property in Santa Monica for $1,000,000 would be taxed by the City in
the amount of $9,000 and by the County in the amount of $1,100.

The City Council approved the proposed transfer tax by more than a
two-thirds majority vote. But, the proposed tax can only go into effect if it is
also approved by a majority of voters at the November 4, 2014 election. If
it is approved then, the proposed tax will go into effect on January 1,

2015.

This measure is accompanied on the ballot by a non-binding advisory
measure. It asks voters if the City should use the transfer tax revenue to
preserve, repair, renovate and construct affordable housing for
low-income people who work or live in Santa Monica, including seniors,
veterans, working families and persons with disabilities.

If the transfer tax measure is passed, the outcome of the vote on the
advisory question may guide the City Council in deciding how to use the
transfer tax revenue. However, the City Council will not be legally bound
by the outcome of the vote on the advisory measure. The City Council
could decide to use the transfer tax revenue for any lawful City purpose
that best serves the City's needs.[2]

■Santa Monica City Attorneys