TOWN OF FAIRFAX MEASURE K	
Wf MEASURE K: Shall there be a BK continuation of the four year spe- 1 m.cial tax for paramedic services in the amount of $57 in the first year and raising the tax $6 annually to a maximun taxable living unit, or per 1,500 square feei on a developed parcel in non-residential i appropriations limit increased by the amou for the next four years?	YES
	NO
	l of $75 per t of structure rse, with the nt of said tax

TOWN ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF
MEASURE K

The Town Council of the Town of Fairfax voted to place
Measure K on the ballot. Measure K proposes to contin-
ue and to increase an existing special tax that funds para-
medic services provided by the Ross Valley Paramedic
Authority for the Town of Fairfax. The measure autho-
rizes the paramedic services tax to remain in effect for four
more years, expiring on June 30, 2019. As a special tax,
two-thirds (2/3) of the voters voting on the tax must vote
in its favor for the paramedic services tax to be continued
and increased.

The existing paramedic services tax rate is fifty-one dol-
lars ($51) and expires on June 30, 2015. The proposed
measure establishes the rate for the paramedic services tax
for fiscal year 2015-16 in the amount of fifty-seven dollars
($57) per taxable living unit on a parcel and fifty-seven
dollars ($57) per 1,500 square feet of structure used for
non-residential purposes on a parcel. The proposed ordi-
nance authorizes an increase of six dollars ($6) annually,
beginning with fiscal year 2016-17, up to a maximum of
seventy-five dollars ($75).

A “YES” vote would be a vote to increase and extend the
paramedic services tax for four more years, subject to the
conditions stated above.

A “NO” vote would be a vote to not extend the paramedic
services tax.

s/JANET COLESON
Town Attorney
Town of Fairfax

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE K

The Ross Valley Paramedic Authority is a partnership of 8
Ross Valley communities that have combined efforts to
deliver an exceptional level of paramedic and ambulance
service to our communities.

Since 1982 the voters of the Ross Valley have continued to
approve a special tax to help fund this fire department
based paramedic service. You are being asked to again
support the tax with modest annual $6 incremental
increases for four years to a maximum rate of $75.

The initial Ross Valley Paramedic Authority tax provided
for a single ambulance. The growing recognition of the
importance of quality paramedic care has dictated that ser-
vice levels continue to expand and evolve. Paramedic care
is now provided through a system that includes state of the
art fire department paramedic ambulance units and with
trained paramedics aboard all fire engines so that advanced
emergency care can arrive as quickly as possible.

The Ross Valley Paramedic Authority will continue the
responsible, transparent approach to managing the costs of
our emergency medical response service and adequately
provide for the long-term health and safety of our com-
munity.

A Yes Vote Will:

Ensure the existing high level paramedic emergency
medical response services
Continue local control over these tax revenues
• Maintain rapid emergency response times
Your tax pays for a significant portion of our local para-
medic program. Additional funds are collected from
insurance companies through third party billing and from
billing of non-resident customers. In addition, your tax
covers continuing paramedic training, the cost of supplies
and equipment and the replacement of ambulance units
when needed.

Our goal is to continue to provide state of the art para-
medic care in the Ross Valley. We need your vote to con-
tinue this vital service. Please vote YES on Measure K.
s/LARRY BRAGMAN
Fairfax Vice Mayor
s/FRANK EGGER
Former Fairfax Mayor
s/JOHN HURLEY
Marin Medical Reserve Corps
s/KATHRYN SEXTON, MD
s/JODY TIMMS, PA, Ph.D.

Fairfax Representative to the
Marin Commission on Aging

FX-1

NO REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
MEASURE K WAS FILED.

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE K

Citizens for Sustainable Pension Plans recommends that
you vote “NO” on Measure K. Our reasoning follows:

•	Measure K requests taxpayer money to provide ser-
vices that should be funded through the normal
operating revenues of the Town.

•	The Town has asked for funding to mask the sys-
tematic mismanagement of their operations.

•	Money is fungible. A “YES” vote on Measure K is
a vote to allow our elected officials to avoid setting
priorities and allocating funds appropriately.

•	The systematic mismanagement of operations is
highlighted through excessive pensions and retiree
medical plans.

Mismanaged pensions and other retirement plans are
endemic in the public sector and the Town is no exception.
These plans suffer from major problems:

•	The plans are extremely generous. The value of the
plans dwarfs the value of corresponding plans pro-
vided in the private sector.

•	In addition to their lavish plan costs, the plans are
subject to extreme cost fluctuations and risk. The
costs of plans are based upon very optimistic
assumptions. Unless those assumptions are met
(and they have not been this century), there is a
funding shortfall (i.e., unfunded liability). This
shortfall is recovered through increased contribu-
tions from the Town (i.e., the taxpayer).

•	These higher contributions come at a cost. Either
the Town reduces services or it requests more
money. Measure K is an example of a request for
more money from the taxpayer.

If taxpayers vote for Measure K, they are enabling the
Town to continue its mismanagement by maintaining its
rich and financially volatile retirement plans. A better idea
is that the Town reform its plans to stabilize its budget and
to eliminate the need for taxpayer requests such as
Measure K.

Vote against this measure!
s/JODY MORALES
Founder and President,

Citizens for Sustainable Pension Plans

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST
MEASURE K

Fairfax has already taken steps to curb pension costs and
to control future liabilities. New employees have reduced
pension benefits while long term employees contribute
more of their paychecks to their ongoing pension costs.
Measure K ensures the funding of a core public service
which provides state of the art paramedic care to local res-
idents in a cost efficient manner:

•	The eight communities in the Ross Valley formed
the RVPA partnership in 1983 to share the signifi-
cant costs of this vital public service. The RVPA has
been one of the most successful and cost efficient
regional agency partnerships in Marin

•	The RVPA parcel tax funds are only used to provide
emergency response and advanced life support
paramedic services. The RVPA response and trans-
port times are swift which improves outcomes for
patients.

•	Fairfax cannot afford to operate paramedic and
ambulance service without sharing costs with our
partners and the support of this tax measure.

•	Because of the RVPA property tax, there is no direct
cost to a Ross Valley resident for paramedic care or
emergency ambulance transport when the need
arises.

•	If the measure fails, residents could be charged a
fee to help off-set the costs of providing paramedic
service and ambulance transport and the cost to tax-
payers would increase.

Please vote yes on Measure K.
s/LARRY BRAGMAN
Vice Mayor
s/FRANK EGGER
Former Fairfax Mayor
s/JOHN HURLEY
EMT/Marin Medical Reserve Corps

FX-2

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE K

RESOLUTION 14-18
A RESOLUTION OF THE TOWN COUNCIL OF
THE TOWN OF FAIRFAX PROPOSING AN
INCREASE IN THE PARAMEDIC SERVICE TAX,
ESTABLISHING A DATE FOR ELECTION,
ADOPTING INTENDED BALLOT LANGUAGE,
REQUESTING THE CONSOLIDATION OF SAID
ELECTION, REQUESTING ELECTION SERVICES
OF THE COUNTY CLERK AND DIRECTING
THAT REBUTTAL ARGUMENTS MAY BE
RECEIVED.

WHEREAS, on November 2, 2010, the electors of the
Town of Fairfax approved a special tax for the funding of
paramedic services through the Ross Valley Paramedic
Authority; and

WHEREAS, the maximum allowable tax was established
at $51.00 per residential unit plus a $.50 County adminis-
trative fee, and $51.00 per 1500 square feet of structure in
non-residential use, plus a $.50 County administrative fee;
and

WHEREAS, the Ross Valley Paramedic Tax has been
annually levied and each four years the tax rate reset and
approved by election and scheduled to expire June 30,
2015;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Fair-
fax Town Council hereby calls for an election to be held
on November 4, 2014, at which election the issue to be
presented to the voters of the Town of Fairfax shall be:
Shall there be a continuation of the four year special tax
for paramedic services in the amount of $57 in the first
year and raising the tax $6 annually to a maximum of $75
per taxable living unit, or per 1,500 square feet of struc-
ture on a developed parcel in non-residential use, with the
appropriations limit increased by the amount of said tax
for the next four years?

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Town Council
hereby requests that said election shall be consolidated
with the general election to be held on said date and
requests the County Clerk to provide all necessary election
services and to canvass the result of said election.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that rebuttals shall be
received to ballot arguments made by this Town Council
on behalf of said measure.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Town Clerk is
hereby authorized to carry out all the necessary procedures
for said election submitting to the voters the question
relating to a special tax for paramedic services.

The foregoing resolution was duly adopted at a regular
meeting of the Town Council of the Town of Fairfax held
in said Town on the 7th day of May 2014 by the following
vote:

AYES:	BRAGMAN, COLER, GODDARD, REED,

WEINSOFF
NOES:	NONE

ABSENT: NONE

s/DAVID WEINSOFF
Mayor

ATTEST:

s/MICHELE GARDNER
Town Clerk

FX-3