Text of measure

Ballot question

The question on the ballot:[2]

Shall Article VI be added to Chapter 18 of the Lake County Code
imposing a one-half of one percent (0.50%) transaction and use
tax (sales tax) to implement a Healthy Lake Tax for the County of
Lake for a maximum period often (10) years with all revenues
locked-in exclusively to combat aquatic weeds, algae, invasive
mussels, and fund wet land restoration and water quality projects
with an expenditure plan with citizen oversight for revenues
generated?[3]

Impartial analysis

The office of the county counsel prepared the following impartial
analysis of Measure L:[2]

u

If approved by two-thirds of the voters voting thereon,

Measure “L” would authorize the County of Lake (the “County”) to
levy a transactions and use tax for the purpose of providing funds

to be used solely and exclusively for the Lake County Water
Quality, Aquatic Invasive Species, and Nuisance Aquatic Weed
and Algae Programs. The tax would be applicable through out the
entire county, including the incorporated and unincorporated
areas.

California Revenue and Taxation Code Section 7285.5 permits a
County Board of Supervisors to levy, increase, or extend a
transactions and use tax (a sales tax) for a specific purpose so
long as the ordinance proposing the tax is approved by a
two-thirds vote of the Board of Supervisors, and then
subsequently approved by a two-thirds vote of the voters.

The Lake County Board of Supervisors has unanimously
determined to propose to the electorate of the County that a sales
tax for those specific purposes described above be imposed and
has adopted an ordinance for that purpose.

If approved by the voters, proceeds from this tax would be
collected by the California State Board of Equalization and
deposited in the County Treasury in a special fund entitled the
“Water Quality, Aquatic Invasive Species and Aquatic Weed and
Algae Prevention and Control Fund” (here in after, the “Fund”)
which would be managed and administered by the Lake County
Water shed Protection District.

The measure would also establish an Expenditure Plan, which
governs how the funds raised by the sales tax can be spent.

Since this is a special purpose tax, monies can be spent only for
the purposes set out in the measure and the Expenditure Plan.
The only pro grams which will be funded by the Expenditure Plan
are the

Water Quality Programs, the Aquatic Invasive Species Prevention
Pro grams, and the Nuisance Aquatic Weeds and Algae Pro
gram.

The measure requires that the County Auditor-Controller conduct
or cause to be conducted by an independent auditor an annual
audit of the fund and to publish those findings on the County’s
official website. An Oversight Committee comprised of County
residents is required to be established and the Oversight
Committee must annually report to the Board of Supervisors
whether the revenues expended from the Fund conform to the
purposes specified in the measure. The Auditor-Controller shall
be authorized under this measure to ex pend up to one percent of
the revenues generated by this tax to cover administrative
expenses. All remaining revenues generated by this tax will be
used exclusively to fund those programs described in the
Expenditure Plan.

If two-thirds of the qualified electors voting on this measure vote
“yes,” the tax will be imposed at a rate of one-half of one per cent
(0.50%) on sales and use of tangible personal property for a
period often (10) years in addition to the existing sales and use
tax.

If less than two-thirds of the qualified electors vote for approval of

33

this measure, it will fail and the proposed transactions and
use tax will not be levied within the County. [3]

—Anita L. Grant, Lake County Counsel^]

Full text

The full text of the county ordinance enacted by Measure L is

available here. Support
Supporters

The official campaign in favor of Measure L is called Save the
Lake. [4]

The following individuals signed the official arguments in favor of
Measure L:[2]

Bill Brunetti

Kelly F. Cox, retired county administrator Dr. Harry Lyons, biology
professor

Peter McGee, ranch manager/firefighter Wilda Shock

Arguments in favor

The following was submitted as the official argument in favor of
Measure L:[2]

6 i

Measure L is responsible local legislation that establishes a

countywide half-cent sales tax to pay for the preservation and
protection of Clear Lake, our community’s greatest asset.

The money raised can be used ONLY to pay for specific projects
benefiting the lake, according to a detailed expenditure plan
incorporated into the ordinance, which has the force of law.
Measure L will provide funding for:

reducing the severe negative impact that noxious algae blooms
and nuisance aquatic weeds have on our quality of life, attraction
for visitors, and broader economy;

keeping destructive quagga mussels and other invasive species
from devastating Clear Lake and other county water ways;

paying the county’s share of the crucial Middle Creek Marsh and
other wetland restoration projects;

funding mandated water quality programs not fully paid for by
state and federal agencies.

These critical program provide the means to manage, protect, and
in vest in our most precious resource - Clear Lake. With out
Measure L, we have no plausible source of funding to meet these
needs.

All Measure L revenues will stay right here in Lake County.

They cannot for any reason be diverted to any other

purposes. A citizens over sight committee with
representation from a broad variety of community
organizations will review the expenditure plan in advance
every year. An annual independent audit will insure that

money is spent as directed in the ordinance. A sunset clause
means that the measure will expire in ten years.

Passage of Measure L will fund vital lake programs with dedicated
local revenues. It will

also send a signal the Lake County is open for business, and help

JJ

our economy grow by attracting visitors and capital
investment. [3]

—Bill Brunetti, Kelly F. Cox, Dr. Harry Lyons, Peter McGee and Wilda Shock[2]

Opposition

No official arguments in opposition to Measure L were submitted.

If you have an argument that you would like to see posted here,
please email the Local Ballot Measures Project staff writer.