IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
CITY OF SEAL BEACH
MEASURE DD

If this Measure is adopted, the City’s Utility User Tax (“UUT”)
would be lowered and the UUT ordinance would be modernized to
apply equally to all telecommunication services regardless of the type
of technology used.

Like many cities, Seal Beach levies on telephone, electricity, and
fuel users a UUT that is paid into the general fund. This tax revenue
cannot be taken by the State and is used to pay for public safety
services (police and fire protection), public works projects (sewers,
storm drains, etc.), parks and recreational programs, senior services,
and other City services. The UUT does not apply to seniors, and
households with seniors, that meet low income qualifications.

If this Measure is approved, the UUT rate would be reduced from
11% to 10%. Additionally, the UUT ordinance would be modernized to
apply equally to all telecommunication services regardless of the type
of technology used, other than internet and cable television services,
so that every phone customer is treated the same. The existing UUT
exemption for low-income seniors and their households would be
preserved, and a new provision would be added to the UUT ordinance
to allow for annual adjustments of the income limit that determines
eligibility for this exemption. Finally, a new provision would be added
to the UUT ordinance to require annual audits by an independent third
party to ensure that this tax revenue is properly collected and lawfully
spent.

This Measure was placed on the ballot by the Seal Beach City
Council and requires the approval of a majority of voters. A “yes”
vote would lower the UUT rate and modernize the UUT ordinance’s
treatment of telecommunication services. A “no” vote retains the
language currently in the Municipal Code, with no changes to the UUT
ordinance.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure
DD. If you desire copies of the Measure and the proposed
ordinance please call the City Clerk’s office at 562-431-2527, ext
1305, and copies will be mailed at no cost to you. Copies can
also be obtained from the City Clerk’s office at City Hall, 211-8th
Street, Seal Beach, CA 90740 or the City’s website at http://www.
sealbeachca.gov.

s/ Steven L. Flower
City Attorney
City of Seal Beach

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE DD

Yes on DD lowers the utility user tax in Seal Beach as it protects
Seal Beach’s public safety and community services from Sacramento
money grabs!

Yes on DD protects a critical source of funding to maintain fast
9-1-1 emergency response times provided by local firefighters and
paramedics—while reducing your tax rates!

Since 1964, residents of Seal Beach have paid a Utility User Tax
(UUT). Like many other California cities, Seal Beach uses this funding
to provide essential city services such as public safety, 9-1-1 services
and senior programs, including transit.

Yes on DD updates the City’s outdated UUT to require equal treatment
of taxpayers regardless of technology used, while reducing your tax
rate.

It is critical to all Seal Beach residents that local first-responders provide
quick and effective medical emergency services. Every second counts
when someone is having a heart attack or stroke.

Measure DD is NOT a new tax and guarantees tax rates can’t be
increased without voter approval.

Yes on DD maintains:

•	9-1-1	response	times

•	Number of firefighters and paramedics serving Seal Beach
residents

•	Police officer patrols of City streets/neighborhoods

•	Storm drains and sewers to prevent flooding and pollution

•	Senior services, including transit services

Over the years State government has taken money from California
cities, including $4 million from Seal Beach. Measure DD maintains
the funds we have used locally since 1964 to preserve essential city
services.

Yes on DD contains rigorous fiscal oversight and accountability
safeguards, such as mandatory annual independent financial audits—
ensuring all funds are spent efficiently, effectively, and as promised to
voters. NO money can be taken by Sacramento politicians. Save our
local control over how our money is spent for vital city services. Vote
YES on DD!

For factual information: www.sealbeachca.gov
s/ Ellery Deaton

Seal Beach Mayor/Councilmember

s/ Richard Coles
Environmental Engineer

s/ Thomas Blackman

Former S.B. Mayor and 55 year resident of S.B.

s/ Dave Evans
President, Surfside Colony

s/ Ron Blaul

OCFA Deputy Fire Chief (Ret.)

No argument against this measure was submitted.