BALLOT MEASURE SUBMITTAL
FORM

BALLOT MEASURE QUESTION	
Jurisdiction Name: Qy^jjp (Jnified SchOOl District	E.«,ion Date: May6i 2014

Note: The information as it appears within the measure question text box will be printed on the ballot.
Insert ballot question text here:

“Without increasing the existing tax rate and to maintain high quality education for all
grades by sustaining academic achievement in math, science, reading, writing, and
utilizing technology; supporting engineering/medicine/biotechnology academies;
attracting/retaining highly qualified teachers; and maintaining school libraries, current
instructional materials/technology, shall the Dublin Unified School District renew its
expiring $96 parcel tax for five years, with a senior exemption, independent oversight,
no money for administrators salaries and all funds staying in Dublin schools?"

Yes

No

TYPE OF MEASURE

\j\ Regular Measure [	|	Bond	Measure

PERCENTAGE NEEDED TO PASS

66.66 %

FULL TEXT OPTION

Full Text to be printed in the Voter Information Pamphlet:

0 YES (note: must submit separate copy of Full Text along with this form)

NO - A Full Text was not submitted

NO - Do not print, but it's accessible at:_______________________

AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE

Print Name:

Stephen L. Hanke

Date:

02/07/2014

Si*

CONTACT INFORMATION (for offict? use)

CONTACT INFORMATION (for public)

Phone #:

925-828-2551 ext. 8002

Phone #:

same

E-Mail:

E-MalVWeb.l..:Dub|jnUSDorg

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE B

ANALYSIS BY THE ALAMEDA COUNTY COUNSEL OF A
DUBLIN UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
SPECIAL PARCEL TAX MEASURE

Measure B, a Dublin Unified School District ("District") special parcel tax measure, seeks
voter approval to authorize the District to renew and extend a special parcel tax in the amount of
$96.00 per year on each parcel of taxable real property, beginning July 1,2014 for five years, to
fund the programs set forth in the measure. The District’s voters previously authorized a special
parcel tax assessment at the same rate on November 4, 2008.

A school district has the authority to levy special taxes upon approval by two-thirds of the
votes cast on the special tax proposal. (See Cal. Const. Art. XIII A, § 4; Art. XIII C, §2; Cal.

Gov’t Code §§ 50075-50077, 50079, & 53722, et seq.)

If two-thirds of the qualified electors voting on this measure vote for approval, the special
tax revenue will be used for the specific purposes set forth in the full text of the measure printed
in this sample ballot. Those purposes include, but are not limited to: recruiting and training
teachers, maintaining class sizes, and maintaining school library services. The measure further
provides that the Board of Trustees will use the revenue for those purposes, unless it
determines in any given year that changes in student population, fiscal constraints, or other
changes in state or federal funding make doing so infeasible or inadvisable. A community
oversight committee will help ensure that the special tax monies are spent for their authorized
purposes and report annually to the Board of Trustees and the community on the expenditure of
such monies.

If the measure passes, the tax will be collected by the Alameda County Treasurer-Tax
Collector at the same time and in the same manner as ad valorem property taxes are collected.
Annual exemptions are available for seniors and persons on Supplemental Security Income
upon application to the District as outlined in the text of the measure. Individuals seeking either
one of the two exemptions must apply to the District on or before July 1 of each tax year. Any
contiguous parcels used solely for one owner-occupied, single-family residence and held under
identical ownership shall, upon approval of an application to the District, be treated as a single
parcel for purposes of the special tax.

If two-thirds of the qualified electors voting on this measure do not vote for approval, the
measure will fail, and the District will not be authorized to extend the special tax.

This measure is placed on the ballot by the governing board of the District.

DONNA R. ZIEGLER
County Counsel

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure B, which measure is printed in
full in this sample ballot pamphlet. If you desire an additional copy of the measure, please call
the Elections Official's office at (510) 272-6933, and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you.
You may also access the full text of the measure on the Alameda County website at the
following address: www.acqov.org/rov.

FULL TEXT OF SPECIAL PARCEL TAX MEASURE

For

DUBLIN UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT

Dublin Unified School District Student Achievement Measure
INTRODUCTION

Without increasing the existing tax rate and to maintain high quality education for all grades by
sustaining academic achievement in math, science, reading, writing, and utilizing technology;
supporting engineering/medicine/biotechnology academies; attracting/retaining highly qualified
teachers; and maintaining school libraries, current instructional materials/technology, shall the
Dublin Unified School District renew its expiring $96 parcel tax for five years, with a senior
exemption, independent oversight, no money for administrators salaries and all funds staying in
Dublin schools?

PURPOSE

To provide local revenue that cannot be taken by the state and to maintain exceptional public
education in our schools, the Dublin Unified School District proposes to renew and extend its
expiring qualified special parcel tax for a period of five (5) years, beginning July 1, 2014, at the
rate of $96 per Parcel of Taxable Real Property within the Dublin Unified School District, with
an annual exemption available for seniors and persons on Supplemental Security Income, upon
application, and to implement accountability measures in connection with the special parcel tax
to provide oversight and accountability to ensure that the funds are used to:

a) Maintain academic achievement in math, science, reading, writing and utilizing
technology support educational academies in science, engineering, medicine and
biotechnology

b)	Attract and retain highly qualified teachers

c)	Maintain school library services

d)	Maintain current instructional materials and technology for students

e)	Provide ongoing teacher training in the latest instructional methods

f)	Maintain small class sizes

g)	Protect taxpayers’ investment in education and ensure District accountability by
providing for an independent community oversight committee and financial audits of
revenues and expenditures.

The Board of Trustees will not fund any program or reduction other than those listed above from
the proceeds of the special parcel taxes. The Board of Trustees will utilize parcel tax proceeds
for the purposes listed above, unless the Board of Trustees determines in any given year that
changes in student population, fiscal constraints, or other changes in state or federal funding
make doing so infeasible or inadvisable.

1

PROCEDURES

Subject to two-thirds approval of the voters, the renewed and extended parcel tax shall become
effective as of July 1, 2014 and be collected by the Alameda County Tax Collector at the same
time as and along with, and shall be subject to the same penalties as general ad valorem taxes
collected by said tax collector. The tax and penalty shall bear interest at the same rate as the rate
for unpaid ad valorem property taxes until paid. Any tax levied shall become a lien upon the
properties against which taxes are assessed and collectible as herein provided.

With respect to all general property tax matters within its jurisdiction, the Alameda County Tax
Assessor or other appropriate County tax official (“County”) shall make all final determinations
of tax exemption or relief for any reason, and that decision shall be final and binding. With
respect to matters specific to the levy of the special parcel tax, including the Senior Citizen
Exemption as allowed below, the decisions of the District shall be final and binding. The
procedures described herein, and any additional procedures established by the Board of Trustees,
shall be the exclusive claims procedure for claimants seeking an exemption, refund, reduction, or
re-computation of the special parcel tax. Whether any particular claim is to be resolved by the
District or by the County shall be determined by the District, in coordination with the County as
necessary.

The District’s Board of Trustees may adopt such additional or supplemental procedures as it
deems necessary or convenient for the administration of the special parcel tax.

OPTIONAL EXEMPTIONS AVAILABLE

An optional exemption from the special parcel tax will be made available annually to each
individual in the District who will attain 65 years of age prior to July 1 of the tax year, and who
owns a beneficial interest in the parcel, and who uses that parcel as his or her principal place of
residence, and who applies to the District on or before July 1, 2014, or July 1 of any succeeding
tax year. Any application for such exemption must be renewed annually.

An optional exemption from the special parcel tax will also be made available annually to each
individual in the District receiving Supplemental Security Income, regardless of age, who owns a
beneficial interest in the parcel, and who uses that parcel as his or her principal place of
residence, and who applies to the District on or before July 1, 2014, or July 1 of any succeeding
tax year. Any application for such exemption must be renewed annually.

Any parcels that are contiguous to each other, used solely for one (1) owner-occupied single-
family residence, and held under identical ownership shall, upon approval of an application from
the owners thereof submitted to the District on or before July 1, 2013, or July 1 of any
succeeding year, be treated as a single parcel for purposes of the special parcel tax. Any one (1)
approved application from a qualified applicant will provide such treatment for the remaining
term of the special tax, so long as all of the parcels continue to be held under identical ownership
and be owner-occupied.

2

The District shall annually provide to the County Tax Collector or other appropriate County tax
official a list of parcels that the District has approved for a Senior Citizen Exemption,
Supplemental Security Income Exemption, or contiguous property designation.

ACCOUNTABILITY MEASURES

In accordance with the requirements of California Government Code sections 50075.1 and
50075.3, the following accountability measures, among others, shall apply to the special parcel
taxes levied in accordance with this Measure: (a) the specific purposes of the special parcel tax
shall be those purposes identified above; (b) the proceeds of the special parcel tax shall be
applied only to those specific purposes identified above; (c) a separate, special account shall be
created into which the proceeds of the special parcel taxes must be deposited; and (d) an annual
written report shall be made to the Board of Trustees of the District showing (i) the amount of
funds collected and expended from the proceeds of the special taxes and (ii) the status of any
projects, programs, or purposes required or authorized to be funded from the proceeds of the
special taxes, as identified above.

In addition to the accountability measures required by state law, an independent Community
Oversight Committee shall be appointed by the Board of Trustees to advise the Board on the
expenditures funded by the measure in order to help ensure that said funds are spent for the
purposes approved by the voters. The Community Oversight Committee will monitor the
expenditures of these funds by the District and will report on an annual basis to the Board and
community on how these funds have been spent.

PROTECTION OF FUNDING

Current law forbids any decrease in state or federal funding to the District because of the
District’s adoption of a parcel tax. However, if any such funds are reduced because of the
adoption of this parcel tax, then the amount of the special parcel taxes will be reduced annually
as necessary in order to restore such state or federal funding.

3

Argument in Favor of Measure B

Vote YES on Measure B to protect excellent education in Dublin schools—without
increasing taxes.

Measure B continues locally-controlled funding that stays in our Dublin schools.

Our students receive a high-quality and well-rounded education in local schools. They
continue to achieve high scores on statewide exams and are prepared to compete for the
best colleges and 21st-century careers.

In 2008, over 70% of Dublin Unified School District voters approved funding to protect
essential academic programs and retain teachers. While funding for education is
improving, state funding for Dublin schools will not be fully restored for at least another
seven years. With our increasing enrollment, it is more critical than ever for Dublin Unified
School District to maintain stable local funding.

Now this funding is set to expire this year, which means our schools will lose millions of
dollars and be forced to cut critical science, reading and technology programs.

Measure B protects the essentials of an excellent education—without increasing taxes.

Specifically, Measure B will:

•	Maintain academic excellence in math, science, reading, writing and technology

•	Create and expand educational academies in science, engineering, medicine and
biotechnology

•	Attract and retain highly qualified teachers

•	Maintain school libraries and up-to-date instructional materials for students

All Measure B funds will continue to be controlled locally—Sacramento cannot take a single
penny.

•	The independent Citizens’ Oversight Committee will continue to ensure funds are
spent as promised

•	None of the money raised can be used for administrators’ salaries

•	Homeowners, aged 65 and older, will continue to be eligible to receive an exemption

•	If passed, Measure B will expire in 5 years and could not be renewed without voter
approval

Join parents, teachers, local businesses and community leaders and vote YES on B.

Argument in Favor of Measure B
Signers

1.	Tim Sbranti

Mayor & Dublin High School Teacher

2.	Janine Thalblum

Dublin Rotary President & Parent

3.	Janet Lockhart

Supt. Dublin Schools Foundation (DPIE) Enrichment Academy

4.	Jan Cohen
Dublin Teacher

5.	Edy Coleman

Dublin Resident 37 years 2013 Mayor’s Volunteer Award Winner