CITY OF SAUSALITO MEASURE O	
MEASURE O: City of Sausalito I I Essential Services Measure. To maintain the City’s long-term finan- cial viability and improve local quality of life and essential services including storm to protect the Bay, street/sidewalk maint hole repair, parks, landscape maintenance, programs, library hours/services, disabled lie safety, and other general services shaf Sausalito enact a half cent sales tax for 10 3 ing independent financial audits/public rev funds remaining in Sausalito?	YES
	NO
	drain repairs enance, pot- youth/senior access, pub- I the City of /ears, requir- iew, with all

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF
MEASURE O

PROPOSED ORDINANCE ENACTING A
LOCAL TRANSACTION AND USE TAX OF ONE-HALF
OF ONE PERCENT (.5%) FOR TEN YEARS

The City Council of the City of Sausalito placed Measure
O on the ballot to ask the City’s voters to approve a tem-
porary one-half of one percent (0.50%) transaction and use
tax. The proposed tax would add a half-cent to the price of
an item that costs one dollar, or 50 cents to the price of an
item that costs $100.

Measure O does not limit the use of the tax revenue to a
specific purpose. Therefore it is a “general tax.” Funds
derived from the tax would be placed in the City’s Gen-
eral Fund and may be used for any legitimate municipal
purposes including but not limited to maintaining and
repairing storm drains, fixing potholes, maintaining and
repairing streets, and fixing sidewalks. The authorization
to collect the tax would expire in ten years unless extend-
ed by the voters.

The measure requires that the City include - in its annual
audit of the City’s financial operations by an independent
certified public accountant - an accounting of the revenue
generated by the tax and how the revenue was used.
Currently, the total “sales tax” rate in Sausalito is 8.5%.
This “sales tax” is actually a combination of “sales and use
tax” and “transactions and use tax.” Both are levied on the
sale or use of tangible personal property sold at retail with
some exceptions. Retailers collect the tax at the time of
sale and remit the funds to the State Board of Equalization
which administers the tax. Measure O would authorize a
0.50% transaction and use tax, increasing the total sales
tax rate in Sausalito to 9%.

A “Yes” vote is a vote to approve a half-cent sales tax for
ten years with annual review by independent auditors. A
“No” vote is a vote against the tax. Measure O would be
approved if it receives a simple majority of “Yes” votes
and would go into effect on April 1,2015.

s/MARY WAGNER
City Attorney
City of Sausalito

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE O

Vote YES on O to upgrade Sausalito’s critical infrastruc-
ture and services and protect the City’s long-term financial
viability!

Tens of thousands of tourists overrun our city each year
and don’t pay for the strain they place on local services.
YES on O ensures out-of-towners pay their fair share -
every penny they spend shopping or eating out will help to
maintain local services!

YES on O isn’t charged on food groceries or prescrip-
tion medicine, including medications delivered by mail,
limiting impacts to Sausalito residents.

YES on O protects our environment and water quality.

Sausalito’s storm drains are 80 years old. Many are com-
pletely deteriorated and rusted through, allowing pollu-
tants to spill over into the Bay.

•	YES on O repairs 80-year-old, deteriorated storm
drains.

•	YES on O maintains storms drains to prevent pol-
lutants, garbage, plastics, and sediment from enter-
ing the Bay.

YES on O fixes hazardous roads and deteriorating
parks. Our steep, hillside roads are riddled with cracks
and aging parks need upgrades. YES on O fixes the streets
in the worst condition, which put motorists, cyclists, and
emergency vehicles at risk.

•	YES on O fixes potholes.

•	YES on O maintains/repairs neighborhood streets.

•	YES on O fixes broken/potentially unsafe side-
walks.

•	YES on O upgrades neighborhood parks.

YES on O requires our tax dollars be spent locally for
Sausalito residents! Sacramento money grabs continually
threaten funding for local services, impacting our quality
of life. Yes on O ensures Sausalito has a guaranteed source
of local funding that can’t be touched by Sacramento!
Measure O requires strict fiscal accountability and trans-
parency. It expires in 10 years, and annual independent
audits and published expenditure reports ensure funds are
spent efficiently and responsibly.

Join environmental advocates and community and busi-
ness leaders in voting YES on O! Join us:
w w w.ProtectSausalito .com.
s/RAY WITHY
Mayor of Sausalito
s/NORM WOHLSCHLAEGER
Past President, Sausalito Marin City Sanitary District,
Fmr. City of Sausalito Engineer, and Lions Club member
s/ALICE MERRILL
Waterfront Preservationist.
s/BILL BRODER
Advisory Council, Sausalito Library Foundation
and 52-year resident
s/DOREEN GOURNARD
Parks/Recreation Commissioner and Harbormaster,
Galilee Harbor

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
MEASURE O

Vote NO on O No New Taxes.

Measure O is a new tax on Sausalito residents. While
tourists will pay the tax on their purchases, so will resi-
dents. The tax does not shift the burden of tourist costs to
tourists. For example, most of the rental bicycle compa-
nies collect sales taxes in San Francisco, not Sausalito.
Sausalito residents will pay the new tax on all internet
purchases, which are projected to grow steadily.

Measure O is deceptive. Supporters promise desirable
improvements to Sausalito’s infrastructure BUT these
repairs are not guaranteed. Money raised by Measure O
taxes could be applied to any purpose the City Council
sees fit, including pensions.

Measure O new taxes are not required to be spent locally
for Sausalito residents. Sacramento would be prevented
from taking these new taxes but the City Council could
spend it in ways that don’t necessarily benefit resident tax-
payers.

While independent audits would track expenditures for the
new tax, residents would have to essentially go to court if
the Measure O money is misspent.

The City claims the new tax is needed to fix problems
which have grown worse under their stewardship:

•	The EPA cited the city for the sewers and drains in
2007; and

•	Repairs to streets, sidewalks and parks have been
repeatedly deferred to “balance the City budgets”

Join responsible citizens and VOTE NO on Measure O
New Taxes.

FORCE THE CITY COUNCIL TO SPEND WITHIN ITS
MEANS.
s/JOHN FLAVIN
Chair, A Better Sausalito Against Measure O,
a primarily formed committee
www.abettersausalito.com

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE O

Citizens for Sustainable Pension Plans recommends that
you vote “NO” on Measure O. Our reasoning follows:

•	Measure O requests taxpayer money to provide ser-
vices that should be funded through the normal
operating revenues of the City.

•	The City has asked for funding to mask the system-
atic mismanagement of their operations.

•	Money is fungible. A “YES” vote on Measure O is
a vote to allow our elected officials to avoid setting
priorities and allocating funds appropriately.

•	The systematic mismanagement of operations is
highlighted through excessive pensions and retiree
medical plans.

Mismanaged pensions and other retirement plans are
endemic in the public sector and the City is no exception.
These plans suffer from major problems:

•	The plans are extremely generous. The value of the
plans dwarfs the value of corresponding plans pro-
vided in the private sector.

•	In addition to their lavish plan costs, the plans are
subject to extreme cost fluctuations and risk. The
costs of plans are based upon very optimistic
assumptions. Unless those assumptions are met
(and they have not been this century), there is a
funding shortfall (i.e., unfunded liability). This
shortfall is recovered through increased contribu-
tions from the City (i.e., the taxpayer).

•	These higher contributions come at a cost. Either
the City reduces services or it requests more money.
Measure O is an example of a request for more
money from the taxpayer.

If taxpayers vote for Measure O, they are enabling the City
to continue its mismanagement by maintaining its rich and
financially volatile retirement plans. A better idea is that
the City reform its plans to stabilize its budget and to elim-
inate the need for taxpayer requests such as Measure O.
Vote against this measure!
s/JODY MORALES
Founder and President,

Citizens for Sustainable Pension Plans

SAU-2

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST
MEASURE O

Don’t be misled by out-of-town critics who seem to think
Sausalito’s pension reforms are a myth. The fact is, Sausa-
lito is THE LEADER for pension reform, accountabil-
ity. and transparency in Marin County.

Vote YES on O for a fiscally-responsible way to make
long overdue repairs to storm drains, roads, parks; im-
prove services; and protect the City’s long-term financial
viability!

FACT: Sausalito’s award-winning pension reforms
lowered pension costs by $1,000,000 annually.

FACT: Sausalito ELIMINATED millions in past/future
pension liabilities.

FACT: Measure O requires strict fiscal accountability
and transparency. Sausalito’s entire City budget is pub-
lished online, detailing every line item. By law, Measure
O undergoes independent audits and published expendi-
ture reports, ensuring RESIDENT PRIORITIES are
addressed. Measure O expires in 10 years and is not
applied to food groceries or prescription medicine.

YES on O ensures tourists pav their fair share for the
strain they place on local services, including police, road
maintenance, parks and other services they use when vis-
iting our city. YES on O guarantees that LOCAL SER-
VICES BENEFIT - requiring funds to be spent locally for
Sausalito residents.

With storm drains completely deteriorated, pollutants have
spilled over into the Bay for years! Hilly roads are haz-
ardous to drive on. YES on O protects water quality, fixes
roads/sidewalks in the worst condition, and improves
parks.

Sausalito prides itself on accountability, and so does YES
on O! That’s why Sausalito business leaders, environmen-
tal and waterfront advocates, and local taxpayers are vot-
ing YES on O.
s/HERB WEINER
Sausalito Council Member, 37-year Sausalito Resident
s/CAROL PELTZ
Fmr. Sausalito Mayor, Past President of Sausalito
Environmental Action (SEA), Fmr. Chair, Citizen
Advisory Review Board on Police Matters, and
51-year Sausalito Resident
s/JEFF SCHAROSCH,

Sausalito Spinnaker General Manager,

Local Business Leader
s/ANN ARNOTT
Board of Directors, Sausalito Marin City Sanitary
District, 45-year Sausalito Resident
s/STEVEN MOORE
PE, Director Friends of Willow Creek (of Sausalito)

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE O

RESOLUTION NO. 5470
A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF
THE CITY OF SAUSALITO CALLING AND GIV-
ING NOTICE OF THE HOLDING OF AN ELEC-
TION TO BE HELD ON NOVEMBER 4,2014 AND
REQUESTING THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS
OF THE COUNTY OF MARIN CONSOLIDATE
SAID ELECTION; AND AUTHORIZE THE CITY
CLERK OR DULY AUTHORIZED OFFICERS AND
AGENTS TO CARRY OUT ALL NECESSARY PRO-
CEDURES FOR SAID ELECTION SUBMITTING
TO THE VOTERS A ONE-HALF CENT (%*)
TRANSACTIONS AND USE (SALES) TAX MEA-
SURE FOR GENERAL PURPOSES TO THE QUAL-
IFIED VOTERS OF THE CITY AND SETTING
THE BALLOT LANGUAGE

WHEREAS, Article XIIIC, Section 2 of the California
Constitution authorizes a city to impose a general tax if
approved by a majority vote of the qualified electors; and
WHEREAS, Part 1.6 (commencing with Section
7251) of Division 2 of the California Revenue and
Taxation Code, and Section 7285.9 of the California
Revenue and Taxation Code, authorizes a city to adopt a
transactions and use (sales) tax ordinance, which shall be
operative if a majority of the electors voting on the mea-
sure vote to approve the imposition of the tax at an elec-
tion called for that purpose; and

WHEREAS, with tens of thousands of tourists coming
to Sausalito each year to shop, this measure ensures that
out-of-towners pay their fair share for the strain they place
on local services including road and sidewalk mainte-
nance, parks, police and other services they use when they
visit our city; and

WHEREAS, this measure will not be applied to food
purchased as groceries or prescription medication, includ-
ing prescription medications delivered through the mail,
limiting its impact on Sausalito residents; and

WHEREAS, no reliable sources of revenue exist to
address Sausalito’s critical infrastructure and service
needs and maintain the City’s long-term financial viabili-
ty; and

WHEREAS, Sausalito’s storm drains are 80 years old
and many are completely deteriorated and rusted through,
which allows pollutants, garbage and plastics to spill over
into the Bay, and the City needs additional funds to make
vital storm drain upgrades to protect water quality and
avoid expensive fines and harming the environment; and
WHEREAS, many of Sausalito’s neighborhood
streets and roads are not only deteriorating and riddled
with cracks, but are also on steep hillsides, and while the
city has made major improvements to a number of streets,
we need additional funds to address the concrete streets
that are in the worst condition and cost up to five times as
much to fix so that we eliminate these hazardous road con-
ditions; and

WHEREAS, Sacramento money grabs continually
threaten funding for local services, impacting our quality

of life, and this measure ensures that our City has a guar-
anteed source of local funding that cannot be taken by
Sacramento and requires that our tax dollars are spent
locally for Sausalito residents; and

WHEREAS, funds from this measure are subject to
strict fiscal accountability and transparency provisions,
including annual independent audits and publishing of
expenditure reports to ensure funds are spent efficiently
and effectively; and

WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of Sausalito
desires to submit the ordinance attached hereto as Exhibit
A containing a ballot measure to adopt a one-half cent
(1^0) transactions and use (sales) tax to be used exclusive-
ly for general purposes to the qualified voters of the City
of Sausalito at the election to be held in the City on
November 4,2014; and

WHEREAS, it is desirable that the election be consol-
idated with the statewide election to be held on the same
date and that within the City, the precincts, polling places,
and election officers of the two elections to be the same;
and

WHEREAS, it is desirable that the County Election
Department of County of Marin canvass the returns and
that the election be handled in all respects as if there were
only one election.

NOW, THEREFORE, the City Council of the City of
Sausalito does hereby resolve as follows:

Section 1. That the foregoing recitals are true and
correct and are hereby incorporated by reference.

Section 2. That pursuant to California Constitution
Article XIIIC, Section 2; Government Code section
53724; and Elections Code section 9222, the City Council
of the City of Sausalito hereby calls and orders an election
at which it shall submit to the qualified voters of the City
a ballot measure which if approved would adopt a tempo-
rary general transactions and use tax, as authorized by
Revenue and Taxation Code section 7285.9.

Section 3. That pursuant to the requirements of
Section 10403 of the California Elections Code, the Board
of Supervisors of the County of Marin is hereby requested

to consent and agree to the consolidation of said election.  Section 4. That the City Council, pursuant to its rights and authority, does order submitted to the voters at the November 4,2014 election the following question:	
CITY OF SAUSALITO MEASURE O	
MEASURE O: City of Sausalito ■ ■ Essential Services Measure To	YES
i—yJiJVliriU.1 L-/V1 ▼ IvvJ ITIVUJUI v« X V/  maintain the City’s long-term finan- cial viability and improve local quality of life and essential services including storm to protect the Bay, street/sidewalk maint hole repair, parks, landscape maintenance, programs, library hours/services, disabled lie safety, and other general services shall Sausalito enact a half cent sales tax for 10 3 ing independent financial audits/public rev funds remaining in Sausalito?	NO
	drain repairs enance, pot- youth/senior access, pub- l the City of /ears, requir- iew, with all

Section 5. This question requires the approval of a
majority of those casting votes. The text of the proposed
ordinance to be submitted to the voters is attached hereto
as Exhibit A. The City Council hereby approves the ordi-
nance, the form thereof, and its submission to the voters of
the City.

Section 6. Pursuant to California Elections Code sec-
tion 9280, the City Clerk shall transmit a copy of the mea-
sure to the City Attorney who shall prepare an impartial
analysis of the measure in accordance with said Section
9280.

Section 7. Arguments for and against said measure
may be filed in accordance with applicable provisions of
the law. Pursuant to Section 9285 of the California
Elections Code, (the provisions of which are hereby
adopted), when the City Clerk has selected the arguments
for and against the measure which will be printed and dis-
tributed to the voters, the City Clerk shall send copies of
the argument in favor of the measure to the authors of the
argument against, and copies of the argument against to
the authors of the argument in favor. The rebuttal argu-
ments shall be filed with the City Clerk not more than ten
(10) days after the final date for filing direct arguments.
Rebuttal arguments shall be printed in the same manner as
the direct arguments. Each rebuttal argument shall imme-
diately follow the direct argument, which it seeks to rebut.
The text of the measure shall be printed on the ballot in the
voter information portion of the sample ballot.

Section 8. That the County Election Department is
authorized to canvass the returns of said election. The
election shall be held in all respects as if there were only
one election, and only one form of ballot shall be used.

Section 9. That the Marin County Board of
Supervisors is requested to issue instructions to the
County Election Department to take any and all steps nec-
essary for the holding of the consolidated election.

Section 10. That the City Clerk shall certify to the
passage and adoption of this Resolution and enter it into
the book of original resolutions.

Section 11. That the polls for the election shall be
open at 7:00 a.m. of the election and shall remain open
continuously from that time until 8:00 p.m. of the same
day, when the polls shall be closed, except as provided
Elections Code section 14401.

Section 12. That in all particulars not recited in this
resolution, the election shall be held and conducted as pro-
vided by law for holding municipal elections.

Section 13. That notice of the time and place of hold-
ing the election is hereby given and the City Clerk is
authorized, instructed, and directed to give further or addi-
tional notice of the election, in time, form, and manner as
required by law.

Section 14. That the City Clerk is hereby directed to
file a certified copy of this resolution with the Marin
County Board of Supervisors and the Election Department
of the County of Marin.

Section 15. The approval of this resolution is exempt
from the California Environmental Quality Act (“CEQA”)

as it is not a qualifying project pursuant to CEQA
Guidelines section 15378(b)(4).

Section 16. This resolution shall take effect immedi-
ately.

PASSED AND ADOPTED at a regular meeting of the
City Council of the City of Sausalito on this 22nd day of
July, 2014 by the following vote:

AYES:	Councilmembers:	Leone, Theodores, Weiner,

Mayor Withy
NOES:	Councilmembers:	Pfeifer

ABSTAIN: Councilmembers: None
ABSENT: Councilmembers: None

s/RAY WITHY
Mayor of the City of Sausalito

ATTEST:

s/DEBBIE PAGLIARO
City Clerk

EXHIBIT A

ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF SAUSALITO
ADDING CHAPTER 3.06 TO TITLE 3 OF THE
SAUSALITO MUNICIPAL CODE IMPOSING A
TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX TO BE ADMINIS-
TERED BY THE STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZA-
TION (NOVEMBER 4,2014 BALLOT)

CITY OF SAUSALITO

ORDINANCE NO._______________

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF SAUSALITO
ADDING CHAPTER 3.06 TO TITLE 3 OF THE
SAUSALITO MUNICIPAL CODE IMPOSING
A TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX TO BE
ADMINISTERED BY THE
STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION
(November 4,2014 Ballot Measure)
WHEREAS, with tens of thousands of tourists coming
to Sausalito each year to shop, this measure ensures that
out-of-towners pay their fair share for the strain they place
on local services including road and sidewalk mainte-
nance, parks, police and other services they use when they
visit our city; and

WHEREAS, this measure will not be applied to food
purchased as groceries or prescription medication, includ-
ing prescription medications delivered through the mail,
limiting its impact on Sausalito residents; and

WHEREAS, no reliable sources of revenue exist to
address Sausalito’s critical infrastructure and service needs
and maintain the City’s long-term financial viability; and
WHEREAS, Sausalito’s storm drains are 80 years old
and many are completely deteriorated and rusted through,
which allows pollutants, garbage and plastics to spill over
into the Bay, and the City needs additional funds to make
vital storm drain upgrades to protect water quality and
avoid expensive fines and harming the environment; and
WHEREAS, many of Sausalito’s neighborhood
streets and roads are not only deteriorating and riddled
with cracks, but are also on steep hillsides, and while the

city has made major improvements to a number of streets,
we need additional funds to address the concrete streets
that are in the worst condition and cost up to five times as
much to fix so that we eliminate these hazardous road con-
ditions; and

WHEREAS, Sacramento money grabs continually
threaten funding for local services, impacting our quality
of life, and this measure ensures that our City has a guar-
anteed source of local funding that cannot be taken by
Sacramento and requires that our tax dollars are spent
locally for Sausalito residents; and

WHEREAS, funds from this measure are subject to
strict fiscal accountability and transparency provisions,
including annual independent audits and publishing of
expenditure reports to ensure funds are spent efficiently
and effectively.

NOW	THEREFORE, THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY

OF SAUSALITO ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1. Recitals. The People of Sausalito find that the
above Recitals are true and correct and are incorporated
herein by reference.

Section 2. Amendment of the Sausalito Municipal Code
to Add Chapter 3.06. Title 3 of the Sausalito Municipal
Code is hereby amended to add a new Chapter 3.06, which
shall read as follows:

Chapter 3.06 2014 TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX  Sections	
3.06.010	Title.
3.06.020.	Operative Date.
3.06.030.	Purpose.
3.06.040.	Contract with State.
3.06.050.	Transactions Tax Rate.
3.06.060.	Place of Sale.
3.06.070.	Use Tax Rate.
3.06.080.	Adoption of Provisions of State Law.
3.06.090.	Limitations on Adoption of State Law and Collection of Use Taxes.
3.06.100	Permit Not Required.
3.06.110.	Exemptions and Exclusions.
3.06.120.	Amendments.
3.06.130.	Enjoining Collection Forbidden.
3.06.140.	Annual Audit.
3.06.150	Severability.
3.06.160.	Effective Date.
3.06.170.	Termination Date.
3.06.180	Use of Proceeds.

3.06.010. TITLE. This ordinance shall be known as the
2014 Transaction and Use Tax (the “Ordinance”). The
City of Sausalito hereinafter shall be referred to as the
“City." This Ordinance shall be applicable in the incorpo-
rated territory of the City.

3.06.020. OPERATIVE DATE. "Operative Date" means
the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing more
than 110 days after the adoption of this Ordinance, the
date of such adoption being as set forth below.

3.06.030. PURPOSE. This Ordinance is adopted to
achieve the following, among other purposes, and the pro-
visions hereof should be interpreted in order to accomplish
those purposes:

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accor-
dance with the provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with
Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code and Section 7285.9 of Part 1.7 Division 2 which
authorizes the City to adopt this Ordinance which shall be
operative if a majority of the electors voting on the mea-
sure vote to approve the imposition of the tax at an elec-
tion called for that purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance
that incorporates provisions identical to those of the Sales
and Use Tax Law of the State of California insofar as those
provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and
limitations contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance
that imposes a tax and provides a measure therefore that
can be administered and collected by the State Board of
Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as prac-
ticable to, and requires the least possible deviation from,
the existing statutory and administrative procedures fol-
lowed by the State Board of Equalization in administering
and collecting the California State Sales and Use Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance
that can be administered in a manner that will be, to the
greatest degree possible, consistent with the provisions of
Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code,
minimize the cost of collecting the transactions and use
taxes, and at the same time, minimize the burden of record
keeping upon persons subject to taxation under the provi-
sions of this Ordinance.

3.06.040. CONTRACT WITH STATE. Prior to the
Operative Date, the City shall contract with the State
Board of Equalization to perform all functions incident to
the administration and operation of this transactions and
use tax Ordinance; provided, that if the City shall not have
contracted with the State Board of Equalization prior to
the Operative Date, it shall nevertheless so contract and in
such a case the Operative Date shall be the first day of the
first calendar quarter following the execution of such a
contract.

3.06.050. TRANSACTIONS TAX RATE. For the priv-
ilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax
hereby is imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated
territory of the City at the rate of .50% (one half of one
percent) of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale
of all tangible personal property sold at retail in said terri-
tory on and after the Operative Date of this Ordinance.
3.06.060. PLACE OF SALE. For the purposes of this
Ordinance, all retail sales are consummated at the place of
business of the retailer unless the tangible personal prop-
erty sold is delivered by the retailer or his or her agent to
an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for
delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts
from such sales shall include delivery charges, when such
charges are subject to the state sales and use tax, regard-

less of the place to which delivery is made. In the event a
retailer has no permanent place of business in the State or
has more than one place of business, the place or places at
which the retail sales are consummated shall be deter-
mined under rules and regulations to be prescribed and
adopted by the State Board of Equalization.

3.06.070. USE TAX RATE. An excise tax is hereby
imposed on the storage, use or other consumption in the
City of tangible personal property purchased from any
retailer on and after the Operative Date of this Ordinance
for storage, use, or other consumption in said territory at
the rate of .50% (one half of one percent) of the sales price
of the property. The sales price shall include delivery
charges when such charges are subject to State sales or use
tax regardless of the place to which delivery is made.

3.06.080. ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE
LAW. Except as otherwise provided in this Ordinance and
except insofar as they are inconsistent with the provisions
of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code (“Transactions and Use Taxes”), all of the provisions
of Part 1 (commencing with Section 6061) of Division 2
of the Revenue and Taxation Code (“Sales and Use
Taxes”) are hereby adopted and made a part of this
Ordinance as though fully set forth herein.

3.06.090. LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF STATE
LAW AND COLLECTION OF USE TAXES. In adopt-
ing the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or
referred to as the taxing agency, the name of the City shall
be substituted therefor. However, the substitution shall not
be made under the following circumstances:

1.	When the word "State" is used as a part of the
title of the State Controller, State Treasurer, State Board of
Control, State Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or
the Constitution of the State of California.

2.	When the result of that substitution would
require action to be taken by or against this City or any
agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by or
against the State Board of Equalization, in performing the
functions incident to the administration or operation of
this Ordinance.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily
limited to, sections referring to the exterior boundaries of
the State of California, where the result of the substitution
would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with
respect to certain sales, storage, use, or other consumption
of tangible personal property which would not otherwise
be exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use, or
other consumption remain subject to tax by the State under
the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales,
storage, use, or other consumption of tangible personal
property which would not be subject to tax by the state
under the said provision of that code.

4.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sen-
tence thereof), 6711, 6715, 6737, 6797 or 6828 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code.

B.	The word "City" shall be substituted for the word
"State" in the phrase "retailer engaged in business in this
State" in Section 6203 and in the definition of that phrase
in Section 6203.

3.06.100. PERMIT NOT REQUIRED. If a seller's per-
mit has been issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional transactor's
permit shall not be required by this Ordinance.

3.06.110. EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the
transactions tax and the use tax the amount of any sales tax
or use tax imposed by the State of California or by any
city, city and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-
Bums Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the
amount of any state-administered transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the
amount of transactions tax the gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than
fuel or petroleum products, to operators of aircraft to be
used or consumed principally outside the county in which
the sale is made, and directly and exclusively in the use of
such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property
under the authority of the laws of this State, the United
States, or any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the City
which is shipped to a point outside the City, pursuant to
the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by the retail-
er or his or her agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a car-
rier for shipment to a consignee at such point. For the pur-
poses of this paragraph, delivery to a point outside the City
shall be satisfied:

a.	With respect to vehicles (other than com-
mercial vehicles) subject to registration pursuant to
Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3
of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with
Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and undocu-
mented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commenc-
ing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration
to an out-of-City address and by a declaration under penal-
ty of perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that such address
is, in fact, his or her principal place of residence; and

b.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by
registration to a place of business out-of-City and declara-
tion under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, that the
vehicle will be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the
seller is obligated to furnish the property for a fixed price
pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative
date of this Ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a
continuing sale of such property, for any period of time for
which the lessor is obligated to lease the property for an
amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of this
Ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of
this section, the sale or lease of tangible personal property
shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract
or lease for any period of time for which any party to the
contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate
the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right
is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by
this Ordinance, the storage, use, or other consumption in
this City of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have
been subject to a transactions tax under any state-adminis-
tered transactions and use tax ordinance.

2.	Fuel or petroleum products purchased by opera-
tors of aircraft and used or consumed by such operators
directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as com-
mon carriers of persons or property for hire or compensa-
tion under a certificate of public convenience and necessi-
ty issued pursuant to the laws of this State, the United
States, or any foreign government. This exemption is in
addition to the exemptions provided in Sections 6366 and
6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the
property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered
into prior to the operative date of this Ordinance.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right
or power over, the tangible personal property arises under
a lease that is a continuing purchase of such property for
any period of time for which the lessee is obligated to
lease the property for an amount fixed by a lease prior to
the operative date of this Ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of
this section, storage, use, or other consumption, or posses-
sion of, or exercise of any right or power over, tangible
personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pur-
suant to a contract or lease for any period of time during
which any party to the contract or lease has the uncondi-
tional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice,
whether or not such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7) of this
Section, a retailer engaged in business in the City shall not
be required to collect the use tax from the purchaser of tan-
gible personal property, unless the retailer ships or deliv-
ers the property into the City or participates within the
City in making the sale of the property, including, but not
limited to, soliciting or receiving the order, either directly
or indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer in the
City or through any representative, agent, canvasser, solic-
itor, subsidiary, or person in the City under the authority of
the retailer.

7.	"A retailer engaged in business in the City" shall
also include any retailer of any of the following: vehicles
subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing
with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, air-
craft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the
Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels registered
under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of
the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to collect
the use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses

the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the City.

D.	Any person subject to the use tax under this
Ordinance may credit against that tax any transactions tax
or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district
imposing, or retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant
to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code with respect to the sale to the person of the property
the storage, use, or other consumption of which is subject
to the use tax under this Ordinance.

3.06.120. AMENDMENTS.

A.	All amendments subsequent to the Operative Date
of this Ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and
which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and all
amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically become a
part of this Ordinance, provided, however, that no such
amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax
imposed by this Ordinance. The forgoing amendments
shall not require voter approval.

B.	The following amendments to this Title must be
approved by a majority of qualified voters of the City of
Sausalito: increasing the tax rate or revising the methodol-
ogy for calculating the tax such that a tax increase would
result; imposing the tax on transactions and uses not pre-
viously subject to the tax (unless such amendment occurs
automatically by operation of the preceding paragraph); or
extending the tax beyond the tenth (10th) anniversary of
the Operative Date. The City Council may otherwise
amend this Title without submitting the amendment to the
voters for approval.

3.06.130. ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN.

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equi-
table process shall issue in any suit, action, or proceeding
in any court against the State or the City, or against any
officer of the State or the City, to prevent or enjoin the col-
lection under this Ordinance, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount
of tax required to be collected.

3.06.140. ANNUAL AUDIT. The City shall include an
accounting of the revenue generated by the Sausalito
Transactions and Use Tax, and an explanation how the
revenue was used, in its annual audit of the City financial
operations by an independent certified public accountant.
Said auditor's report shall be presented to the City Council
and made available to the public.

3.06.150 SEVERABILITY. If any provision of this
Ordinance or the application thereof to any person or cir-
cumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the Ordinance
and the application of such provision to other persons or
circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

3.06.160. EFFECTIVE DATE. This Ordinance relates
to the levying and collecting of the City transactions and
use tax and shall be in full force and effect ten (10) days
after the certification by the City Council of the election
returns indicating passage of the Ordinance by a majority
of the voters casting votes in the election of November 4,
2014.

3.06.170 TERMINATION DATE. The authority to levy
the tax imposed by this ordinance shall expire on the tenth
(10th) anniversary of the Operative Date, unless extended
by a majority vote of the qualified voters in the City.
3.06.180. USE OF PROCEEDS. The proceeds from the
transactions and use tax imposed by this Ordinance shall
be for general governmental purposes of the City and shall
be received into the general fund of the City. Nothing
herein shall bind the City to use the proceeds for any spe-
cific purpose or function.

Section 3. This Ordinance was approved for placement on
the November 4, 2014 ballot by a two-thirds vote of all
members of the City Council of the City of Sausalito.
Section 4. The Ordinance was passed and adopted at a

regular meeting of the Sausalito City Council on the_

day of September, 2014 by the following vote:

AYES:	COUNCILMEMBER:

NOES:	COUNCILMEMBER:

ABSTAIN: COUNCILMEMBER:

ABSENT: COUNCILMEMBER:

Section 5. This ordinance was adopted by the voters of
the City of Sausalito at the election held on the 4th day of
November, 2014, by the following vote tally:

YES:

NO:

Mayor of the City of Sausalito

ATTEST:

City Clerk