VOTER'S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

CITY OF PETALUMA
MEASURE Q

Shall the BETTER ROADS SAFER PETALUMA

Q MEASURE, a general transactions and use tax of 1%,
with all proceeds placed in the Petaluma General Fund
for governmental purposes such as street and sidewalk
maintenance and repair, traffic improvements like the Rainier
Crosstown Connector/lnterchange, flood protection, storm
drainage, vehicle replacement, restoring public safety positions,
and public facilities Improvements, among others, with local
control of tax proceeds, and independent review and reporting on
expenditures, be adopted?

CITY ATTORNEY'S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE Q

The Petaluma City Council placed Measure Q on the November 4, 2014 general
election ballot by ordinance. Measure Q would impose a 1 % local transactions and
use or sales tax on the sale and use of personal property In Petaluma, subject to
specified exceptions. Measure Q is a general tax and requires approval by majority
vote of the qualified Petaluma voters voting in the November 4, 2014 election.
Measure Q has no expiration date. If approved it would remain in effect unless
amended or repealed by Petaluma voters.

Measure Q would raise the sates tax in Petaluma from 8,25% to 9.25%. A Sonoma
County transactions and use tax of .125% to provide library funding also has been
placed on the November 4,2014 ballot and designated as Measure M. If both mea-
sures are approved, and the California Legislature enacts legislation raising the
cap on Sonoma County local sales tax by at least .125%, sales tax in Petaluma
would increase from 8.25% to 9.375% for the 10 year-period Measure M is in effect.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE Q

Measure Q allows Petaluma to achieve street and sidewalk improvements
throughout town and accelerate construction of the Rainier Connector and Inter-
change — finally easing the traffic crunch, But Measure Q will do much more for
Petaluma,

By supporting Measure Q, citizens will see dramatic service and quality of life im-
provements throughout Petaluma. Our streets and traffic are among the worst in
the Bay Area, Sacramento funding raids and the Great Recession have delayed
needed repairs.

Petaluma has 15 fewer police officers than in 2007. The street crimes, drugs and
school resource assignments have been eliminated. We can’t afford to regularly
replace fire trucks, ambulances or police cars as the old ones wear out. The down-
town fire station is seismically unsafe and needs to be replaced. The City must bor-
row funds for stream maintenance to prevent flooding.

With Measure Q, we can restore police positions, replace public safety vehicles
when needed, and have modern, safe police and fire stations, Street lights can be
repaired. All this is achievable.

The new Target and Friedman’s centers dramatically Improved Petaluma's sales
tax revenues. Even with them, though, total General Fund revenues this fiscal year
will be $39 million, down from $48 million in 2007.

Your Council majority understands the community’s priorities and will work tire-
lessly to make sure that the priority projects listed in Measure Q — with streets and
the Rainier Connector at the top of the list—get funded and achieved. Measure Q
funds cannot be grabbed by Sacramento. They will be locally controlled.

Measure Q Includes important transparency and accountability safeguards. All
sales tax proceeds and expenditures will be dearly identified. Quarterly reports on
Measure Q revenues and expenditures will be issued to the community. And a citi-
zen oversight committee will be appointed to protect taxpayer funds.

Measure Q requires tracking its proceeds and expenditures separately from ail
other Petaluma General Fund tax receipts. Measure Q also requires appointment
of a 5-member citizen oversight committee to review and report on use of Measure
Q proceeds, and quarterly reports on all proceeds of the tax and their use forsub-
mission to the oversight committee and publication on the City’s website. The citizen
oversight committee would meet annually. Its meetings and records would be sub-
ject to the Brown Act and the Public Records Act.

sl Mike Heaiy
Petaluma City Councilmember

s/ Kathy Miller
Petaluma City Councilmember

sl Gabe Kearney
Petaluma Vice Mayor

PETALUMA PEACE OFFICERS1 ASSOCIATION
s/ Garrett Glaviano, President

s/Judith H. Hillery
Retired Registered Nurse

Petaluma staff estimate Measure Q would generate approximately $10 million an-
nually. Staff has recommended priorities for Measure Q proceeds, such as: resto-
ration of public safety positions; repair of roads and sidewalks; relocation,
modernization and expansion of fire stations and the police station; replacement of
fire engines, ambulances and police cars; completion of flood protection and storm
water projects; and completion of the Rainier crosstown connector/inierchange.
However, all Measure Q proceeds would be placed in the Petaluma General Fund
for use for general governmental purposes approved by the City Council. Measure
Q proceeds therefore could be used for purposes that are approved by the City
Council other than those staff has recommended.

Petaluma would contract with the State Board of Equalization to administer Mea-
sure Q. If approved by Petaluma voters, Measure Q will become effective 10 days
afterthe Petaluma City Council declares the results of the November 4,2014 elec-
tion. The operative period of State Board of Equalization administration of Measure
Q would begin the calendar quarter starting more than 110 days after Measure Q’s
effective date, or approximately April 1, 2015.

si Eric W. Danly
Petaluma City Attorney

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure Q, If you desire a copy of
the ordinance, please call the office of the Petaluma City Clerk at (707) 778-4360
and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you.

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE Q

Measure Q is too much. Forever is too long. And a general tax that places no re-
strictions on the city council's use of the money is a recipe for disaster. Are you will-
ing to trust future city councils? Forever?

Measure Q supporters promise a Christmas wish list of municipal projects from
new police cars and renovated fire department facilities to the Rainier crosstown
connector to fixing the broken street light on the corner. None of this of course Is
guaranteed. It could have been, but a majority of the city council opted to make
Measure Q an unrestricted general tax. Plain and simple, Measure Q is a slush
fund. The money can be used any way the current or a future city council may
choose regardless of quickly forgotten campaign promises.

Petaluma is awash in unfunded pension liabilities and we are currently in the mid-
dle of contract negotiations with the public safety employee unions. It should there-
fore surprise no one to see the president of the police officer’s union signing the
argument supporting Measure Q. You can bet the union’s interest in Measure Q
has nothing to do with building the Rainier crosstown connector.

Measure Q is anti-Petaluma. It pushes us from the lowest sales tax rate in the
county to the highest. It is permanent. Unrestricted in its use, Measure Q taxes will
be quickly consumed by pensions and pay raises. Rainier will once again be
pushed to the back burner. Vote No on Q.

si David Glass	s/ Teresa Barrett

Mayor, City of Petaluma	Councilmember,	City of Petaluma

Sl Janice Cader-Thompson	SONOMA	COUNTY	TAXPAYERS’	ASSOCIATION

Former Petaluma Councilmember sl Dan Drummond, Executive Director

s/Harry Clifford

Sonoma County

49-535

9605

VOTER’S PAMPHLET MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS  (whichever is applicable to your ballot)  Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.	
ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE Q  Measure Q is a “general purpose" tax that goes directly into Petaluma's general fund where it can be used for anything a majority of the city council wants to spend it on from pensions to personnel perks.  Deceptively titled the Better Roads, Safer Petaluma Measure, those words are just the empty promises of proponents who want to lull you into believing this tax wilt pay for road repairs and police officers, if that was indeed the case, the city council would have made the measure a “special purpose" lax thus guaranteeing the pur- poses for which the money was to be spent. Instead, the council split 5 to 2 with the majority opting for the general purpose tax we have before us.  Further, the tax is permanent. This tax will go on forever making Petaluma the city with the highest and longest-lasting tax in Sonoma County.  Petaluma’s pension problem is no secret, Nor is Petaluma's refusal to deal with it. While other Sonoma County cities are starting to face the problem head-on, Petaluma has amassed nearly $55 million in unfunded pension liabilities and post-employment benefits. Rather than curb the ever increasing flow of money be- Ing taken from roads, parks maintenance and other essential government services in order to pay for exploding pension costs, a majority of Petaluma's city council want you to dig deeper and pay more.  This tax is anti-business and anti-Petaluma residents, it provides no enforceable guarantees that future councils will use the money for the purposes promised. Even the proponent's ballot statement is carefully worded so as not to bind the City to actually fulfilling the promises of Better Roads and a Safer Petaluma. Don’t be misled. Demand accountability from your elected officials. Vote no on Measure Q.  $/ David Glass SONOMA COUNTY TAXPAYERS' ASSOCIATION Mayor, City of Petaluma s/ Dan Drummond, Executive Director  s/ Teresa Barrett s/ Janice Cader-Thompson Counciimember, City of Petaluma Former Petaluma Councilmember  PETALUMANS FOR RESPONSIBLE GOVERNMENT s/ Bryant Moynihan, Executive Director  REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE Q  Let’s be dear. The politicians opposing Measure Q have also opposed the Rainier Crasstown Connector and Interchange. Measure Q will finally allow us to build Rainier and ease the crosslown traffic crunch. The opponents hate that. !t will also fix streets and sidewalks throughout Petaluma.  Measure Q’s opponents refuse to lead on fixing Petaluma’s roads or improving traffic. They suggest no alternative ideas for funding roads and traffic relief. They seem not to like cam. (They do like road diets.)  With Measure Q, Petaluma can restore police positions; replace police cars, fire trucks and ambulances when needed; and have modem, safe police and fire sta- tions. Street lights will work. Measure Q will give Petaluma's police department the officers to restore drug and gang prevention and a presence in high schools,  Petaluma has implemented a less generous second tier for new hires — easing pension costs. Never have Glass or Barrett proposed any further specific pension fixes to ease Petaluma's pension problem, as they now loudly demand. Note care- fully their total failure to identify any specific reforms they now advocate.  Measure Q provides real taxpayer safeguards, including an independent Citizens Oversight Committee, quarterly reports and segregation of sales tax proceeds within the City’s budget.  “Q" stands for quality of life. Measure Q will keep Petaluma safe and finally allow us to fix our roads and traffic problems, it is pro-business and pro-everyone because it will make Petaluma a better place to live, work, raise a family and grow a business.  s/ Mike Healy PETALUMA FIREFIGHTERS ASSOCIATION Petaluma City Councilmember si Ken Dick, President  si Mike Harris si Richard W. Sharke Petaluma City Counciimember Retired / Community Volunteer  si Gina Benedetti Petnic Civil Engineer / Planning Commissioner	

Sonoma County

49-536

9605

City Attorney's Impartial Analysis of Measure Q

(Cal. Gov. Code §9280)

The Petaluma City Council placed Measure Q on the November 4, 2014 general
election ballot by ordinance. Measure Q would impose a 1% local transactions and
use or sales tax on the sale and use of personal property in Petaluma, subject to
specified exceptions. Measure Q is a general tax and requires approval by majority
vote of the qualified Petaluma voters voting in the November 4, 2014 election.
Measure Q has no expiration date. If approved it would remain in effect unless
amended or repealed by Petaluma voters.

Measure Q would raise the sales tax in Petaluma from 8.25% to 9.25%, A Sonoma
County transactions and use tax of .125% to provide library funding also has been
placed on the November 4, 2014 ballot and designated as Measure M. If both
measures are approved, and the California Legislature enacts legislation raising the
cap on Sonoma County local sales tax by at least ,125%, sales tax in Petaluma would
increase from 8.25% to 9.375% for the 10 year-period Measure M is in effect

Measure Q requires tracking its proceeds and expenditures separately from all other
Petaluma General Fund tax receipts. Measure Q also requires appointment of a 5-
member citizen oversight committee to review and report on use of Measure Q
proceeds, and quarterly reports on all proceeds of the tax and their use for
submission to the oversight committee and publication on the City’s website. The
citizen oversight committee would meet annually. Its meetings and records would
be subject to the Brown Act and the Public Records Act

Petaluma staff estimate Measure Q would generate approximately $10 million
annually. Staff has recommended priorities for Measure Q proceeds, such as:
restoration of public safety positions; repair of roads and sidewalks; relocation,
modernization and expansion of fire stations and the police station; replacement of
fire engines, ambulances and police cars; completion of flood protection and storm
water projects; and completion of the Rainier crosstown connector/interchange.
However, all Measure Q proceeds would be placed in the Petaluma General Fund for
use for general governmental purposes approved by the City Council. Measure Q
proceeds therefore could be used for purposes that are approved by the City Council
other than those staff has recommended.

1

Measure Q Impartial Analysis

Petaluma would contract with the State Board of Equalization to administer
Measure Q. If approved by Petaluma voters, Measure Q will become effective 10
days after the Petaluma City Council declares the results of the November 4, 2014
election. The operative period of State Board of Equalization administration of
Measure Q would begin the calendar quarter starting more than 110 days after
Measure Q’s effective date, or approximately April 1, 2015.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure Q. If you desire a copy of
the ordinance, please call the office of the Pet	at (707] 778-4361

and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you.

Dated: August 18, 2014

By:

Eric W. Danly
Petaluma City Attorney

r

Attorr

2

Measure Q Impartial Analysis

ON FILE IN THIS OR'ii " '

EFFECTIVE DATE
OF ORDINANCE

ORDINANCE NO. 2507 N.C.S.

AUG 0 5 2014

August 4, 2014

,'UU>riir<c 'Vt*1''1 *-.*,*■/ t • it n/■

GWOliERK CITY CP

sntEsir

MOTE

miTiiE

Introduced by

Seconded by

Gabe Kearney

Mike Healy

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF PETALUMA ON THE SUBJECT
OF A 1% TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX APPLICABLE IN THE CITY OF PETALUMA:
ORDERING THE SUBMISSION OF THE TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX TO THE
QUALIFIED ELECTORS OF THE CITY AT THE GENERAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION TO BE
HELD ON TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2014; APPROVING THE ORDINANCE IN
ACCORDANCE WITH REVENUE AND TAXATION CODE SECTION 7285.9; REQUESTING
THE SONOMA COUNTY BOARD OF SUPERVISORS TO CONSOLIDATE SAID ELECTION
WITH THE NOVEMBER 4, 2014 STATEWIDE GENERAL ELECTION; AND PROVIDING FOR
SUBMISSION OF BALLOT ARGUMENTS AND REBUTTALS

WHEREAS, during the recession beginning in 2007 the City of Petaluma:

experienced sales and property tax revenue losses of approximately $9.7
million

reduced the City workforce by approximate!y70 positions (about 20% of the
workforce)

reduced General Fund spending from $48.2 million to $32.5 million (about a
33% reduction)

lost about $13 million in funding due to elimination of redevelopment
agencies; and,

WHEREAS, the City eliminated the Community Development department, the
Animal Services program, and privatized planning, animal care, custodial, and aquatics
program services; and,

WHEREAS, the Petaluma Fire Department currently operates at minimum staffing
levels; and,

WHEREAS, officer staffing in the Petaluma Police Department is at 1995 levels, with
15 fewer officers than in 2007; and,

WHEREAS, Street Crimes, Narcotics and School Resources assignments in the
Police Department have been eliminated; and,

WHEREAS, the cost of providing Police and Fire services in Petaluma currently
consumes about 75% of the City's General Fund revenues; and,

FINDINGS

Ordinance No. 2507 N.C.S.

Page

WHEREAS, the City has deferred maintenance, repair, and capital costs for
facilities, roads, sidewalks, and street lights; and,

WHEREAS, the City lacks resources to fully fund a storm water facilifies/flood

protection program; and,

WHEREAS, Section 7285.9 of the California Revenue and Taxation Code provides
that the governing body of any city may levy, increase or extend a transactions and use
tax for general purposes at a rate of 0.] 25 percent or a multiple thereof, if the ordinance
proposing that tax is approved by a two-thirds vote of all members of that governing
body and the tax is approved by a majority vote of the qualified voters of the city voting
in an election on the issue, if adoption of the tax is in the manner prescribed in Section
7285.9, and provides that the transactions and use tax shall conform to Part 1.6
[commencing with Section 7251) of the California Revenue and Taxation Code; and,

WHEREAS, California Government Code Section 36934 provides that ordinances
shall not be passed within 5 days of their introduction; and,

WHEREAS, Section 45 of Article VII of the Petaluma City Charter provides that
ordinances of the City Council must be advertised once at least two days before
adoption in at least one edition of the official newspaper of the city; except that on
unanimous vote of the council members present at the meeting when the ordinance is
introduced, the advertisement may be done by posting a copy of the original ordinance
on the bulletin board at City Hall, and that at the direction of the City Council, a synopsis
of the ordinance may be published in lieu of the ordinance in its entirety and the entire
text of the ordinance made available to the public through the office of the City Clerk;
and,

WHEREAS, California Government Code Section 36937 provides that ordinances
relating to an election or to taxes for the usual and current expenses of a city take effect
immediately; and,

WHEREAS, Section 76A of Title XII of the Petaluma City Charter provides that no
ordinance shall become effective until thirty days after the date of its final passage,
except for ordinances calling or otherwise relating to an election and ordinances for the
immediate preservation of the public peace, health or safety; and,

WHEREAS, Section 7251.1 of the California Revenue and Taxation Code provides
that the combined rate of all transactions and use taxes in any county may not exceed
2 percent; and,

WHEREAS, current sales tax rates in Sonoma County are as follows:

Sonoma County
Windsor

Healdsburg
Petaluma
Rohnert Park
Santa Rosa
Sebastopol
Sonoma

Cloverdale

Cotati

8.25%

9.25%

8.75%

8.25%

8.75%

8.75%

9.00%

8.75%

8.25%

8.25%; and,

Ordinance No. 2507 N.C.S.

Page 2

WHEREAS, in accordance with California Revenue and Taxation Code section
7251.1, the Petaluma voters may adopt a local transactions and use tax of up to 1.25% to
be applicable in the City; and,

WHEREAS, imposition of a 1% transactions and use tax in Petaluma would
generate approximately $10 million annually; and,

WHEREAS, in accordance with Article 13C, Section 2, subdivision (a) of the
California Constitution, any tax imposed for general governmental purposes the
proceeds of which are placed in the general fund and available for expenditure for any
and all governmental purposes is a general tax, including where such proceeds are
monitored and tracked separately from other tax receipts (see, e.g„ Weisblat v, City of
San Diego [2009) 176 CA4th 1022); and,

WHEREAS, Subdivision (b) of Section 2 of Article XII1C of the California Constitution
requires that elections to approve a general tax must be consolidated with a regularly-
scheduled general election for members of the governing body of the local
government; and,

WHEREAS, November 4, 2014 is the date of the City’s next regular municipal
election for members of the City Council; and,

WHEREAS, Section 4 of Article ill of the Petaluma City Charter provides that except
as otherwise specified in the charter, all regular and special city elections are to be held
in accordance with the California Elections Code, as amended; and,

WHEREAS, Section 76 of Article XII of the Petaluma City Charter provides that
ordinances may be enacted by and for the city pursuant to Division 4 of Chapter 3 of
Article 1 of the California Elections Code, as amended; and,

WHEREAS, Sections 9200 - 9226 of the California Elections Code set forth the
procedures and requirements for the submission of measures to the voters and
placement of measures on the ballot. Sections 10400 - 10418 of the California Elections
Code set forth the procedures and requirements for consolidation of municipal and
statewide elections, and Sections 9280 - 9287 of the California Elections Code set forth
the procedures and requirements for submission of ballot arguments, rebuttal arguments
and preparation of impartial analysis; and,

WHEREAS, the transactions and use tax measure to be submitted to Petaluma
voters pursuant to this ordinance, if approved by a vote of at least 5 City Council
Members and by a majority vote of qualified City voters, would impose a 1% tax based
on the retail sales price of personal property sales and use; and,

WHEREAS, this ordinance and the transactions and use tax measure to be
submitted to the voters pursuant to this ordinance are not a project subject to the
California Environmental Quality Act or its Guidelines in accordance with paragraph (2)
of subdivision (c) of Section 15060, and paragraph (4) of subdivision (b) of Section 15378
of Title 14 of the California Code of Regulations, because this ordinance and the tax
measure to be submitted to the voters pursuant to this ordinance involve the creation of
government funding mechanisms and other government fiscal activities that do not
involve any commitment to any specific project that may result in a potentially significant
physical impact on the environment.

Ordinance No. 2507 N.C.S.

Page 3

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF PETALUMA AS
FOLLOWS:

1.	The above Findings are true and correct and hereby adopted by the City
Council.

2.	Pursuant to the requirements of the City of Petaluma Charter, California
Revenue and Taxation Code Section 7285.9, California Elections Code Section 9222 and
other applicable law, there is called and ordered to be held in the City of Petaluma,
California, on Tuesday, November 4, 2014 an election for the purpose of submitting to the
voters a measure that would impose a 1% transactions and use tax.

3.	The ballot language for the proposed ordinance shall be as follows:

MEASURE 			
Shall the BETTER ROADS SAFER PETALUMA MEASURE, a general transactions and use tax of 1 cent, with all proceeds placed in the Petaluma General Fund for governmental purposes such as street and sidewalk maintenance and repair, traffic improvements like the Rainier Crosstown Connector/lnterchange, flood protection, storm drainage, vehicle replacement, restoring public safety positions, and public facilities improvements, among others, with local control of tax proceeds, and independent review and reporting on expenditures, be adopted?	YES	NO

4.	The measure to be approved by the voters pursuant to Section 2 of this
ordinance is as set forth in Exhibit A attached hereto.

5.	The City Council hereby approves the ordinance set forth in Exhibit A and
this ordinance ordering submission of the measure to City voters in accordance with
California Revenue and Taxation Code Section 7285.9.

6.	(a) An election on the measure set forth in Exhibit A shall be held in
conjunction with the municipal election to be held in the City of Petaluma on Tuesday,
November 4, 2014. In accordance with the Petaluma City Charter and California
Elections Code Section 10403, the City Council requests that the Board of Supervisors of
Sonoma County consolidate the election on the measure with the statewide general
election on the same day and issue instructions to the Sonoma County Election
Department to take any and all steps necessary for the holding of the consolidated
election.

(b)	The City Council acknowledges that the consolidated election will
be held and conducted in the manner prescribed in California Elections Code Section
10418.

(c)	The election on the measure set forth in Exhibit A shall be held and
conducted, the votes canvassed and the returns made, and the results ascertained and
determined as provided for herein and the California Elections Code.

(d)	The election for the measure set forth in Exhibit A shall be held in
Sonoma County in the City of Petaluma on November 4, 2014, as required by law, and

Ordinance No. 2507 N.C.S.

Page 4

the Sonoma County Election Department is authorized to canvas the returns of that
election with respect to the votes cast in the City of Petaluma.

(e)	In accordance with and subject to the Petaluma City Charter, at
the next regular meeting of the City Council of the City of Petaluma occurring after the
returns of the election for the measure set forth in Exhibit A have been canvassed and
the certification of the results to the City Council, the City Council shall cause to be
entered in its minutes a statement of the results of the election.

7.	(a)	In	accordance	with	California	Elections Code Sections 9282 and

9283, arguments submitted for or against the measure shall not exceed 300 words in
length, and shall be printed upon the same sheet of paper and mailed to each voter
with the sample ballot for the election and be signed by not more than five persons.

(b)	In accordance with California Elections Code Section 9282, the
following headings, as appropriate, shall precede the arguments’ wording, but shall not

be counted in the 300 word maximum: "Argument In Favor of Measure_____" or,

"Argument Against Measure____________"	(the blank spaces being filled only with the letter

or number, if any, designating the measure).

(c)	in accordance with California Elections Code Section 9283,
printed arguments submitted to voters in accordance with Section 9282 of the Elections
Code shall be filed with the City Clerk, accompanied by the printed name(s) and
signature(s) of the author(s) submitting it, or if submitted on behalf of an organization, the
name of the organization and the printed name and signature of at least of one its
principal officers who is the author of the argument. Arguments are due in the office of
the City Clerk prior to 5:00 p.m. on Monday, August 18, 2014.

8.	(a)	Pursuant	to	California	Elections	Code	Section	9285,	when	the	City

Clerk has selected arguments for and against the measure that will be printed and
distributed to the voters, the City Clerk shall send copies of the argument in favor of the
measure to the authors of the argument against, and copies of the argument against to
the authors of the argument in favor. Rebuttal arguments shall be printed in the same
manner as the direct arguments. Each rebuttal argument shall immediately follow the
direct argument that it seeks to rebut.

(b)	Rebuttal arguments shall not exceed two hundred fifty words and
be signed by not more than five persons The author or a majority of authors of an
argument relating to a City measure may prepare and submit a rebuttal argument or
may authorize in writing any other person or persons to prepare, submit, or sign the
rebuttal argument.

(c)	The last day for submission of rebuttal arguments for or against the
measure shall be by 5:00 p.m. on Thursday, August 28, 2014.

(d)	All previous resolutions or ordinances providing for the filing of
rebuttal arguments for City of Petaluma measures are repealed. The provisions of this
ordinance concerning rebuttal arguments shall only apply to the election to be held on
November 4,2014, and following the conclusion of that election are repealed.

9.	In accordance with California Elections Code Section 9280, the City
Attorney is directed to file with the City Clerk by Monday, August 18, 2014, an impartial
analysis of the measure, not to exceed five hundred words, showing the effect of the
measure.

Ordinance No. 2507 N.C.S.

Page 5

10.	The City of Petaluma recognizes that additional costs may be incurred by
the County by reason of the measure and agrees to reimburse the County for such costs.
The City Manager is hereby authorized and directed to appropriate the necessary funds
to pay for the City's cost of placing the measure on the election ballot.

11.	(a)	The	City	Clerk	is	directed	to file a certified copy of this ordinance

with the Board of Supervisors of Sonoma County and the Sonoma County Elections
Department on or before Friday, August 8, 2014. The City Clerk is hereby authorized and
directed to take all steps necessary to place the measure on the ballot and to give legal
notice of the measure attached as Exhibit A to be published once in a newspaper of
general circulation, or any other newspaper designated as the official newspaper of the
City of Petaluma, in accordance with California Elections Code Section 12111 and
California Government Code Section 6061. A copy of the measure shall be made
available to any voter upon request. The City Clerk is authorized and directed to give
further additional notice of the measure in time, form and manner as required by law.

(b) In all particulars not recited in this ordinance, the election shall be
held and conducted as provided by law for holding municipal elections.

INTRODUCED and ordered posted/published this 2151 day of July, 2014.

ADOPTED this 4th day of August, 2014 by the following vote:

Ayes:	Albertson, Harris, Healy, Vice Mayor Kearney, Miller

Noes:	Barrett, Mayor	Glass

Abstain:	None

Absent:	None

David Glass, Mayor

ATTEST:

diet am J

Claire Cooper, CMC, City Clerk

Ordinance No. 2507 N.C.S.

Page 6

EXHIBIT A

ORDINANCE NO.

AN ORDINANCE OF THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF PETALUMA
ADDING A NEW CHAPTER 4.18 TO THE PETALUMA MUNICIPAL CODE TO IMPOSE A
ONE-CENT TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX FOR GENERAL PURPOSES TO BE
ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION

FINDINGS

WHEREAS, during the recession beginning in 2007 the City of Petaluma:

experienced sales and property tax revenue losses of approximately $9.7 million
reduced the City workforce by 70 positions (about 20% of the workforce]
reduced General Fund spending from $48.2 million to $32.5 million (about a 33%
reduction]

lost about $13 million in funding due to elimination of redevelopment agencies; and,

WHEREAS, the City eliminated the Community Development department, the Animal
Services program, and privatized planning, animal care, custodial, and aquatics program
services; and,

WHEREAS, the Petaluma Fire Department currently operates at minimum staffing levels;

and.

WHEREAS, officer staffing in the Petaluma Police Department is at 1995 levels, with 15
fewer officers than in 2007; and,

WHEREAS, Street Crimes, Narcotics and School Resources assignments in the Police
Department have been eliminated; and,

WHEREAS, the cost of providing police and fire services in Petaluma currently consumes
about 75% of the City’s General Fund revenues; and,

WHEREAS, the City has deferred maintenance, repair, and capital costs for facilities,
roads, sidewalks, and street lights; and,

WHEREAS, the City lacks resources to fully fund a stormwater facilities/flood protection
program; and,

WHEREAS, Section 7285.9 of the California Revenue and Taxation Code provides that the
governing body of any city may levy, increase or extend a transactions and use tax for general
purposes at a rate of 0,125 percent or a multiple thereof, if the ordinance proposing that tax is
approved by a two-thirds vote of all members of that governing body and the tax is approved
by a majority vote of the qualified voters of the city voting in an election on the issue, if adoption
of the tax is in the manner prescribed in Section 7285.9, and provides that the transactions and
use tax shall conform to Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of the California Revenue and
Taxation Code; and,

WHEREAS, Section 7251.1 of the California Revenue and Taxation Code provides that the
combined rate of all transactions and use taxes in any county may not exceed 2 percent; and,

Ordinance No. 2507 N.C.S.

Page 7

WHEREAS, current sales tax rates in Sonoma County are as follows:

Cloverdale	8.25%
Cotati	9.25%
Healdsburg	8.75%
Petaluma	8.25%
Rohnert Park	8.75%
Santa Rosa	8.75%
Sebastopol	9,00%
Sonoma	8.75%
Sonoma County	8.25%
Windsor	8.25%: and.

WHEREAS, in accordance with California Revenue and Taxation Code sections 7251.1
and 7285.9, the Petaluma voters may adopt a local transactions and use tax of up to 1/25% to
be applicable in the City: and,

WHEREAS, imposition of a 1% transactions and use tax in Petaluma would generate
approximately $10 million annually: and,

WHEREAS, in accordance with Article 13C, Section 2, subdivision (a) of the California
Constitution, any tax imposed for general governmental purposes the proceeds of which are
placed in the general fund and available for expenditure for any and all governmental
purposes is a general tax, including where such proceeds are monitored and tracked separately
from other tax receipts (see, e.g., Weisblot v. City of San Diego (2009) 176 CA4th 1022}: and,

WHEREAS, Subdivision (b} of Section 2 of Article XIIIC of the California Constitution requires
that elections to approve a general tax must be consolidated with a regularly-scheduled
general election for members of the governing body of the local government: and,

WHEREAS, November 4,2014 is the date of the City’s next regular municipal election for
members of the City Council: and,

WHEREAS, Section 4 of Article III of the Petaluma City Charter provides that except as
otherwise specified in the charter, all regular and special city elections are to be held in
accordance with the California Elections Code, as amended: and,

WHEREAS, Section 76 of Article XII of the Petaluma City Charter provides that ordinances
may be enacted by and for the city pursuant to Division 4 of Chapter 3 of Article 1 of the
California Elections Code, as amended.

NOW, THEREFORE, THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF PETALUMA DO ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1. Chapter 4.18 entitled “Transactions and Use Tax" is hereby added to Title 4 of
the Petaluma Municipal Code, to read as follows:

4.18.010 TITLE. This chapter is entitled "Transactions and Use Tax" and shall be
applicable in the incorporated territory of the city.

4.18.020 OPERATIVE DATE. “Operative Date" means the first day of the first
calendar quarter commencing more than 110 days after the adoption of this chapter, the date
of such adoption being as set forth below.

Ordinance No. 2507 N.C.S.

Page 8

4.18.030 PURPOSE. This chapter is adopted to achieve the following, among other
purposes. The provisions of this chapter shall be interpreted in order to accomplish these
purposes:

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax for general purposes in accordance
with the provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the California
Revenue and Taxation Code and Section 7285.9 of Part 1.7 of Division 2, which authorizes the
city to adopt this chapter, which shall be operative if a majority of the electors voting on the
measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax at an election called for that purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates provisions
identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California insofar as those
provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the California Revenue and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax and
provides a measure therefore that can be administered and collected by the State Board of
Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and requires the least
possible deviation from, the existing statutory and administrative procedures followed by the
State Board of Equalization in administering and collecting California State Sales and Use Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be administered in
a manner that will be, to the greatest degree possible, consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6
of Division 2 of the California Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting the
transactions and use taxes, and at the same time, minimize the burden of record keeping upon
persons subject to taxation under the provisions of this chapter,

4.18.040 CONTRACT WITH STATE. Prior to the operative date, the city shall contract
with the State Board of Equalization to perform all functions incident to the administration and
operation of this chapter: provided, that if the city shall not have contracted with the State
Board of Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract and in such a
case the operative date shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter following the
execution of such a contract.

4.18.050 TRANSACTIONS TAX RATE. For the privilege of selling tangible personal
property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated territory of the
city at the rate of 1.0% of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of ail tangible personal
property sold at retail in said territory on and after the operative date of this chapter.

4.18.060 PLACE OF SALE. For the purposes of this chapter, all retail sales are
consummated at the place of business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold
is delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for
delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery
charges, when such charges are subject to the state sales and use tax, regardless of the place
to which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the
State or has more than one place of business, the place or places at which the retail sales are
consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted
by the State Board of Equalization.

4.18.070 USE TAX RATE. An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or
other consumption in the city of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on and
after the operative date of this chapter for storage, use or other consumption in said territory at
the rate of 1.0% of the sales price of the property. The sales price shall include delivery charges
when such charges are subject to state sales or use tax regardless of the place to which delivery
is made.

Ordinance No. 2507 N.C.S.

Page 9

4.18.080. ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW. Except as otherwise provided in
this chapter and except insofar as they are inconsistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2
of the California Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing with
Section 6001) of Division 2 of the California Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted
and made a part of this chapter as though fully set forth herein.

4.18.090. LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF STATE LAW AND COLLECTION OF USE TAXES.

in adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the California Revenue and Taxation Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the
name of the city shall be substituted therefor. However, the substitution shall not be made
when:

1.	The word "State" is used as a part of the title of the State Controller, State
Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or the Constitution
of the State of California:

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or
against this city or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by or against the State
Board of Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the administration or operation of
this chapter.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to, sections referring
to the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the result of the substitution would be
to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales,
storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property which would not otherwise be
exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other consumption remain subject to tax
by the State under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the California Revenue and Taxation

Code, or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other
consumption of tangible personal property which would not be subject to tax by the state under
the said provision of that code.

4.	In Sections 6701,6702 (except in the last sentence thereof}, 6711,6715,
6737, 6797 or 6828 of the California Revenue and Taxation Code.

B.	The word "city" shall be substituted for the word "State" in the phrase "retailer
engaged in business in this State" in Section 6203 and in the definition of that phrase in Section
6203 in the California Revenue and Taxation Code.

4.18.100 PERMIT NOT REQUIRED. If a seller's permit has been issued to a retailer
under Section 6067 of the California Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional transactor's
permit shall not be required by this chapter.

4.18.110 EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the use tax
the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or by any city, city and
county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the
amount of any state-administered transactions or use tax.

Ordinance No. 2507 N.C.S.

Page 10

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax the
gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible persona! property, other than fuel or petroleum products,
to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the county in which the sale
is made and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or
property under the authority of the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign
government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the city which is shipped to a point
outside the city, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by the retailer or his
agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at such point. For
the purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point outside the city shall be satisfied:

a.	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject
to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the
California Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the California
Public Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with
Section 9840) of the California Vehicle Code, by registration to an out-of-city address and by a
declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that such address is, in fact, his
or her principal place of residence: and

b.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of
business out-of-city and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, that the
vehicle will be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to furnish
the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of
this chapter.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such
property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the property for an
amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of this chapter.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, the sale or
lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract
or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional
right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this chapter, the storage, use or
other consumption in this city of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a
transactions tax under any state-administered transactions and use tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of aircraft
and used or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as
common carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under a certificate of public
convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this State, the United States, or any
foreign government. This exemption is in addition to the exemptions provided in Sections 6366
and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of California,

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price
pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this chapter.

Ordinance No. 2507 N.C.S.

Page 11

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the tangible
personal property arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such property for any
period of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by a
lease prior to the operative date of this chapter.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, storage, use,
or other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power over, tangible personal
property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of
time for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the
contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in business in
the city shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible personal property,
unless the retailer ships or delivers the property into the city or participates within the city in
making the sale of the property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving the order,
either directly or indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer in the city or through any
representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the city under the authority of
the retailer.

7.	"A retailer engaged in business in the city" shall also include any retailer of
any of the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with
Section 4000) of Division 3 of the California Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with
Section 21411 of the California Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels registered under
Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the California Vehicle Code. That retailer shall
be required to collect use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or
aircraft at an address in the city.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this chapter may credit against that tax any
transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district imposing, or retailer liable
for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the California Revenue and Taxation
Code with respect to the sale to the person of the property the storage, use or other
consumption of which is subject to the use tax.

4.18.120 AMENDMENTS. All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this
chapter to Part 1 of Division 2 of the California Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and
use taxes and which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the California
Revenue and Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the
California Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part of this chapter,
provided however, that no such amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax
imposed by this chapter.

4.18.130 ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN. No injunction or writ of mandate or
other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit, action or proceeding in any court against
the State or the city, or against any officer of the State or the city, to prevent or enjoin the
collection under this chapter, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the California Revenue and Taxation
Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.

4.18.140 ACCOUNTABILITY MEASURES.

A.	The proceeds of the tax imposed pursuant to this chapter shall be placed in the
City's General Fund and available for expenditure for any and all governmental purposes such
as street and sidewalk maintenance and repair, traffic improvements like the Rainier Crosstown
Connector/lnterchange, flood protection, storm drainage, vehicle replacement, restoring public

Ordinance No. 2507 N.C.S.

Page 12

safety positions, and public facilities improvements, among others. Such proceeds and
expenditures using such proceeds shall be monitored and tracked separately from other tax
receipts deposited in the city’s General Fund.

B.	The City Council shall appoint an independent citizen oversight committee of five
members to review and report on the use of proceeds of the tax imposed pursuant to this
chapter. The committee members shall be city residents who pay the tax imposed pursuant to
this chapter and who are not employees or elected officials of the city or members of any other
city body. The city will provide administrative support necessary for the oversight committee to
carry out its functions.

C.	The City’s Finance Director will oversee preparation of a quarterly report for
submission to the oversight committee and publication on the City’s website on all tax proceeds
collected pursuant to this chapter and use of the proceeds. The citizen oversight committee will
meet annually to review and comment on the report. The meetings and records of the
oversight committee will be open to the public in accordance with Article 1, Section 3,
subdivision (b) of the California Constitution, and the requirements of the Ralph M. Brown Act,
California Government Code Section 54950 and following, and the California Public Records
Act, California Government Code Section 6250 and following, as amended from time to time.

Section 2. SEVERABILITY. If any provision of this ordinance or the application thereof to any
person or circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the ordinance and the application of
such provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

Section 3. EFFECTIVE DATE. This ordinance relates to the levying and collecting of City
transactions and use taxes and shall take effect upon approval of a majority of the qualified
voters of the City subject to California Revenue and Taxation Code Section 7285.9 and other
applicable law.

Section 4. EXPIRATION DATE. The authority to levy the tax imposed by this ordinance shall
not expire but remain in full force and effect unless and until this ordinance is suspended,
repealed or otherwise amended in accordance with applicable law.

Ordinance No. 2507 N.C.S.

Page 13