Ballot question

The question on the ballot:[i]

£ £

TRANSACTIONS AND USE (SALES) TAX FOR CITYWIDE

CLEANUP AND IMPROVEMENT. Shall City of Clearlake impose
0.5% retail transactions and use tax for citywide cleanup and
improvement; shall appropriations limit for City code enforcement,
crime suppression, abatement and animal control increase Fiscal
Year 2014-2015 by tax proceeds received; shall Citizen's

JJ

Oversight Committee annually review proceeds' use; shall tax

sunset in ten years, with reduction of tax by City Council in five
years?[2]

Impartial analysis

The following impartial analysis was prepared for Measure R:[i]

£ £

Measure R is a one-half per cent (1/2%) transactions tax

(“Sales Tax”) and Use tax to be used only for city wide cleanup
and improvement in the City of Clearlake. This tax is a “special
tax” rather than a “general tax,” which means that revenues from
the tax would

be deposited into a special fund separate from the City’s general
fund to be used only for citywide cleanup and improvement, in
accordance with the City of Clearlake Citywide Clean Up and
Improvement Transactions and Use Tax Expenditure Plan
(“Expenditure Plan”). The Expenditure Plan is available for review
at City Hall, and details specifically how tax proceeds will be spent
for citywide cleanup and improvement. The Expenditure Plan may
only be amended through an ordinance submitted, approved, and
adopted by the City’s qualified voters. This Measure would also
require the creation of a “Citizen Oversight Committee” that will
review expenditures made pursuant to the Expenditure Plan.

State law authorizes cities to adopt Sales Tax and Use Tax
ordinances with voter approval and to have those taxes
administered by the State Board of Equalization. Measure R was
placed on the ballot by the City Council to ask the voters of
Clearlake to approve the tax at a rate of one-half per cent (1/2%).
The tax would be added to the current sales tax and use tax rate
in the City of 7.75%, for a total of 8.25%, and would be collected
at the same time and in the same manner as the existing sales
and use tax. This Sales Tax and Use Tax will expire ten years

from its Effective Date, with a review by City Council five years
from its Effective Date to possibly reduce the tax rate if the
determination is made that the cleanup and improvement goals
have been met, or a reduction in funding for those goals is
warranted.

A “yes” vote is a vote to approve adoption of the proposed one
percent (1/2%)

transactions and use tax, the proceeds to be solely used for
citywide cleanup and improvement. A “no” vote is a vote to reject
the adoption of the tax. Measure R will be approved if at least
two-thirds (2/3) of the voters voting on Measure R at the

JJ

November 4, 2014 election vote yes.[2]