Ballot question

The question on the ballot appeared as:[2]

Shall the one-half of one percent (0.5%) transaction and use tax used to
fund essential public services, including police, fire prevention and
protection, and emergency medical services, set to expire on September
25, 2015, be extended by Ordinance No. 1149 until repealed by majority
vote in a municipal election?[3]

Impartial analysis

The following impartial analysis was prepared for Measure P:[i]

If approved by a majority vote, this ballot measure would extend, until
repealed by a majority vote at a municipal election, the existing general
one-half of one percent (0.5%) sales tax in the City of Ukiah. This tax was
adopted by majority vote as “Measure S” at a municipal election on June
7, 2005, by Ordinance No. 1063 along with “Measure T,” which was an
advisory measure asking whether police, fire and emergency medical
services should be the first priority for the use of the general fund revenue
from Measure S. Section 1799.5 of Ordinance No. 1063 provides, in
effect, that the tax is repealed on September 25, 2015. Measure T
remains in effect and continues to advise that public safety services
should be the first priority for the use of revenue from the cent sales tax.
Measure P would amend Section 1799.5 to provide that the sales tax will
remain in effect after September 25, 2015, until repealed at a general
municipal election.

This Vi cent sales tax has been in effect for almost nine years. Currently, it
is added to the existing 7.625% sales tax in Mendocino County, making
the total sales tax on goods sold in Ukiah 8.125%. On a purchase of $100
in the City of Ukiah, the Vi cent sales tax increases the sales tax by fifty
cents ($.50). The combined sales tax rate in Ukiah compares to an
8.125% sales tax rate in Willits and Point Arena, 8.625% sales tax rate in
Fort Bragg and a rate of 8.25% in Sonoma County and every incorporated
city in Sonoma County.

The City receives 1% of the 7.5% statewide Bradley Burns sales tax which
goes into the City General Fund to pay for city provided service. All of the
additional .5% sales tax enacted by Measure S goes to fund city provided
services, including police, fire and emergency medical services. Measure
P would extend this revenue beyond September 25, 2015. Under existing
state law, these funds must be used exclusively for the municipal
purposes of the City of Ukiah and may not be diverted by the state for any
other use.

The tax will continue to be administered by the California State Board of
Equalization (“SBOE”) under a contract with the City.[3]

David J. Rapport, Ukiah City Attorneys