Measure G

Transactions & Use (Sales) Tax
City of Cotati

Majority Approval Required

Ballot Question:

Cotati Essential City Services Measure. To maintain Cotati as a viable, independent,
financially stable City, address State takeaways, prevent potential Police
Department	elimination/permanent service cuts, and maintain law enforcement

staffing levels and other City services, including domestic violence response, street
paving, and pothole repair, shall the City of Cotati extend its existing Measure A
sales tax and set the rate at Id: for nine years, with independent citizens' oversight,
annual audits, and no money for Sacramento?

Impartial Analysis

The City Council of the City of Cotati placed Measure G on the ballot to ask the City's
voters to approve a temporary one percent (1%) transactions and use tax. The
proposed tax would add a penny to the price of an item that costs a dollar. Prior to
placing Measure G on the ballot, the City Council unanimously declared the existence of
an emergency in the City.

The ordinance proposed by Measure G contains findings that, as a result of factors
largely outside of its control-such as the slow recovery from the recession, increased
expenses, and the continued taking of City revenues by the State—and despite having
taken steps to reduce its operational costs, the City is experiencing an existing and
immediate funding crisis. The ordinance further finds that, absent additional General
Fund revenue, the City Council will consider reducing police and other essential
services, including the possible elimination of the City's Police Department. The
ordinance finds that as a result, a fiscal emergency exists within the City.

Because Measure G would not limit the use of tax revenue, it is a "general tax," not a
"special tax" that restricts the funds to specific purposes.Therefore, the City may use the
funds for any legitimate governmental purpose. Among the examples of general services
to be funded by the measure, as described in the ballot question, are maintaining the
City's Police Department, including staffing levels, domestic violence response services,
street paving, and pothole repair.

The proposed tax would terminate automatically after nine years, unless extended by
the voters.

Measure G would require an independent auditor to provide an accounting of the
revenue received as a result of the proposed tax and expenditures of the revenue in the
City's audited financial statements. The auditor must present a report to the City
Council regarding the use of tax proceeds. The report must be a public record.

Technically, the existing "sales tax" is a combination of "sales and use tax" and
"transactions and use tax." With some exceptions, both are levied on the sale or use of
tangible personal property sold at retail. Retailers collect the tax at the time of sale and
remit the funds to the State Board of Equalization, which administers the tax.

In 2010, Cotati voters approved Measure A, increasing the sales tax rate from 8.25% to
8.75% for five years. MeasureG would replace the Measure A tax and set the sales tax
rate at 9.25% for nine years. If MeasureG is not approved, the current rate will continue
until July 2015 and then become 8.25%. Revenue from Measure G would go to the City's
general fund and be available to support the full range of municipal services.

A "Yes" vote is a vote to approve a one-cent sales tax for nine years, with annual review
by independent auditors. A "No" vote is a vote against the tax. Measure G would be
approved if it received a simple majority of "Yes" votes.

s/ Robin Donoghue, City Attorney City of Cotati

Arguments For Measure G

Vote Yes onG to maintain Cotati's status as a viable, independent City and prevent the
elimination of our local Police Department!

Yes on G protects our City from the Sacramento money grabs that have resulted in
hundreds of thousands of dollars being taken from Cotati's City budget.

Yes onG maintains guaranteed local funding for the vital public safety and community
services you expect and rely on, with money that cannot be taken by Sacramento or
Washington.

Yes onG ensures your tax dollars are spent locally to keep Cotati financially stable.

Yes on G is not a new tax. It simply continues existing, voter-approved funding at the
one cent sales tax rate—ensuring that out-of-towners who use our local services pay their
fair share. A majority of Cotati's sales tax is paid by out-of-town shoppers coming to
local destinations like Lowe's.

Measure G is not a property tax or a tax on Cotati homeowners, and it does not apply to
food purchased as groceries or prescription medication.

Over the last several years, the City has reduced staffing by 28%, frozen wages for over 6
years, reduced employee benefits, and reduced its overall general fund budget by 11%.
Cotati has made every cut possible and we need Measure G to maintain current service
levels and prevent more severe and potentially permanent service cuts.

Yes on G includes fiscal accountability provisions. Residents will have access to public
expenditure reports, and annual independent audits continue to ensure City officials use
voter-approved tax dollars as promised.

Join police officers, local business owners, and community leaders in voting Yes on G to
protect and maintain Cotati's public safety and community services. For official
information about Measure G, visit http://www.cotaticitv.org

C0TAT1 CITY COUNCIL
s/ John A. Dell'Osso, Mayor

C0TAT1 CHAMBER OF COMMERCE
s/ Jami Brady, President

s/ Matthew Stapleton Police Officer, Cotati resident
s/ Prudence K. Draper 60-Year Resident and Taxpayer
s/ Moose Jamal Local Business Owner
(No arguments against Measure G were submitted)

Full Text of Measure G

AN ORDINANCE OF THE VOTERS OF THE CITY OF COTATI AMENDING
CHAPTER 3.05 OF THE MUNICIPAL CODE TO EXTEND AND INCREASE A
TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE BOARD OF
EQUALIZATION

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE VOTERS OF THE CITY OF COTATI:

SECTION 1. FINDINGS. The voters of the City of Cotati hereby find and declare as
follows:

a.	Cotati voters adopted Measure A in 2010, which imposed a transactions and use ("sales")
tax of .05% and which sunsets in 2015.

b.	Measure A has provided the City with a guaranteed source of local funding for local City
services that cannot be taken by the state and has helped maintain the financial viability of
the City. Since voters enacted Measure A, the City has maintained a full-service Police
Department, with the ability to prevent and investigate property, domestic violence and
other types of crime.

c.	External costs beyond the City's control have increased faster than the City's revenue
sources, including Measure A, and the State has continued to raid the City's coffers, taking
$2.3 million from the City, including $600,000 from the general fund.

d.	The City is experiencing an existing and immediate funding crisis, which is the result of
factors largely outside of its control, including national economic trends, rapid increases in
the cost of employee retirement and health insurance benefits, decreases in revenue from
existing taxes and fees, increases in charges by the County of Sonoma, and unpredictable
State takeaways of local revenue.

e.	The City has taken significant steps to reduce its operational costs. It has reduced staffing
by 28%, reduced employee benefits and reduced its overall general fund budget by 11%
while inflation has increased 20%.

f.	The City has used its available General Fund balance to bridge the structural budget
deficit, meaning it has used all available financial resources and will have none available to
maintain services.

g.	Because of changes in State law, particularly the approval of Propositions 62 and 218, the
City has very few means available for increasing General Fund revenue.

h.	Absent an extension and enhancement of the funds provided by Measure A, the City
Council would have no choice other than to implement severe reductions in City services
and potential elimination of the Police Department. Just extending Measure A would be
inadequate to address the returned emergency that faced the City in 2010. The Measure must
be expanded for nine years at one cent to protect our local, high-quality services and ensure
our Police Department has the resources it needs to keep Cotati safe.

i.	Without further action, the revenue measure will expire in 2015, resulting in the loss of
over $900,000 of funding for essential City services.

j.	Unless Measure A funds are enhanced and extended, public facilities and property will not
be properly maintained, public safety standards will degrade, crime and violence will
increase, the community will not have adequate and safe recreational opportunities,
businesses and families will be discouraged from moving to or remaining in Cotati, and the
health, safety, and welfare of the residents of Cotati will be endangered.

k.	Because of that threat to the public health, safety, and welfare, The City Council, at its
Regular meeting on February 11, 2014 unanimously adopted Resolution No. 2014-04,
declaring that an emergency exists in the City, as the term "emergency" is used in Article
XIIIC, section 2(b) of the California Constitution. The City must immediately address that
emergency by ensuring that the City has the resources necessary to preserve the public
health, safety and welfare.

l.	The identified emergency necessitates that the City Council submit a tax measure to the
voters of Cotati at the June 3, 2014 election, even though such an election would not be
consolidated with a general election for a member of the Council, m. Article XIIIC, section
2(b) of the California Constitution permits the City, in emergency situations unanimously
declared by the Council, to seek voter approval for a general tax at an election that is not
consolidated with an election for a member of the Council.

SECTION 2. AMENDMENT OF CODE. "Chapter 3.05 Transactions and Use Tax" of the
Cotati Municipal Code is hereby amended to read as follows:

Section 3.05.010. TITLE. This ordinance shall be known as the City of Cotati Transactions
and Use Tax Ordinance. The City of Cotati hereinafter shall be called "City." This ordinance
shall be applicable in the incorporated territory of the City.

Section 3.05.020. OPERATIVE DATE. "Operative Date" means the first day of the first
calendar quarter commencing more than 110 days after the adoption of this ordinance, the

date of such adoption being as set forth below. The operative date is anticipated to be
October 1, 2014.

Section 3.05.030. PURPOSE. This ordinance is adopted to achieve the following, among
other purposes, and directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish
those purposes:

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the provisions of Part 1.6
(commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code and
Section 7285.9 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 which authorizes the City to adopt this tax
ordinance which shall be operative if a majority of the electors voting on the measure vote to
approve the imposition of the tax at an election called for that purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates provisions identical
to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California insofar as those provisions
are not inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2
of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax and provides a
measure therefore that can be administered and collected by the State Board of Equalization
in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and requires the least possible
deviation from, the existing statutory and administrative procedures followed by the State
Board of Equalization in administering and collecting the California State Sales and Use
Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be administered in a manner
that will be, to the greatest degree possible, consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting the
transactions and use taxes, and at the same time, minimize the burden of record keeping
upon persons subject to taxation under the provisions of this ordinance.

Section 3.05.040. CONTRACT WITH STATE. Prior to the operative date, the City shall
contract with the State Board of Equalization to perform all functions incident to the
administration and operation of this transactions and use tax ordinance; provided, that if the
City shall not have contracted with the State Board of Equalization prior to the operative
date, it shall nevertheless so contract and in such a case the operative date shall be the first
day of the first calendar quarter following the execution of such a contract.

Section 3.05.050. TRANSACTIONS TAX RATE. For the privilege of selling tangible
personal property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated
territory of the City at the rate of l%of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all
tangible personal property sold at retail in said territory on and after the operative date of
this ordinance.

Section 3.05.060. PLACE OF SALE. For the purposes of this ordinance, all retail sales are
consummated at the place of business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property
sold is delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common
carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall
include delivery charges, when such charges are subject to the state sales and use tax,
regardless of the place to which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no permanent

place of business in the State or has more than one place of business, the place or places at
which the retail sales are consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations to be
prescribed and adopted by the State Board of Equalization.

Section 3.05.070. USE TAX RATE. An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or
other consumption in the City of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on
and after the operative date of this ordinance for storage, use or other consumption in said
territory at the rate of 1% of the sales price of the property. The sales price shall include
delivery charges when such charges are subject to state sales or use tax regardless of the
place to which delivery is made.

Section 3.05.080. ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW. Except as otherwise
provided in this ordinance and except insofar as they are inconsistent with the provisions of
Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1
(commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are
hereby adopted and made a part of this ordinance as though fully set forth herein.

Section 3.05.090. LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF STATE LAW AND COLLECTION
OF USE TAXES. In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the name
of this City shall be substituted therefore. However, the substitution shall not be made when:

1.	The word "State" is used as a part of the title of the State Controller, State Treasurer, State
Board of Control, State Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or the Constitution of the
State of California;

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against this City or
any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by or against the State Board of
Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the administration or operation of this
Ordinance.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sections referring to the exterior
boundaries of the State of California, where the result of the substitution would be to:a.
Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other
consumption of tangible personal property which would not otherwise be exempt from this
tax while such sales, storage, use or other consumption remain subject to tax by the State
under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible
personal property which would not be subject to tax by the state under the said provision of
that code.

4.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711, 6715, 6737, 6797 or
6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

B.	The word "City" shall be substituted for the word "State" in the phrase "retailer engaged
in business in this State" in Section 6203 and in the definition of that phrase in Section 6203.

Section 3.05.100. PERMIT NOT REQUIRED. If a seller's permit has been issued to a
retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional transactor's
permit shall not be required by this ordinance.

Section 3.05.110. EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS. A. There shall be excluded from
the measure of the transactions tax and the use tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax
imposed by the State of Californiaor by any city, city and county, or county pursuant to the
Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the amount of any state-
administered transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax the gross
receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum products, to operators of
aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the county in which the sale is made and
directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property
under the authority of the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the City which is shipped to a point outside the City,
pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by the retailer or his agent, or by
delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at such point. For the
purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point outside the City shall be satisfied:

a.	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject to registration pursuant
to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft
licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and undocumented
vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code
by registration to an out-of-City address and by a declaration under penalty of perjury,
signed by the buyer, stating that such address is, in fact, his or her principal place of
residence; and

b.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of business out of-City and
declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, that the vehicle will be operated
from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to furnish the property for a
fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such property, for any
period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by
the lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, the sale or lease of tangible
personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any
period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to
terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this ordinance, the storage, use or other
consumption in this City of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a transactions tax under
any state-administered transactions and use tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of aircraft and used or
consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common
carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under a certificate of public
convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this State, the United States, or any
foreign government. This exemption is in addition to the exemptions provided in Sections
6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price pursuant to a
contract entered into prior to the operative date of this ordinance .

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the tangible personal
property arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such property for any period
of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by a lease
prior to the operative date of this ordinance

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, storage, use, or other
consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power over, tangible personal
property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of
time for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the
contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in business in the City shall not
be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible personal property, unless the
retailer ships or delivers the property into the City or participates within the City in making
the sale of the property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving the order, either
directly or indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer in the City or through any
representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the City under the
authority of the retailer.

7.	"A retailer engaged in business in the City" shall also include any retailer of any of the
following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section
4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411
of the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5
(commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to
collect use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at
an address in the City.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit against that tax any
transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district imposing, or retailer
liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code with respect to the sale to the person of the property the storage, use or other
consumption of which is subject to the use tax.

Section 3.05.120. AMENDMENTS. All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this
ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use
taxes and which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part of this ordinance, provided

however, that no such amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this
ordinance.

The foregoing amendments shall not require voter approval.

The following amendments to this ordinance must be approved by the voters of the City of
Cotati: increasing the tax rate or revising the methodology for calculating the tax such that a
tax increase would result; imposing the tax on transactions and uses not previously subject
to the tax (unless such amendment occurs automatically by operation of the preceding
paragraph); or extending the tax beyond the ninth anniversary of the operative date. The City
Council may otherwise amend this ordinance without submitting the amendment to the
voters for approval. Section 3.05.130. ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN. No
injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit,
action or proceeding in any court against the State or the City, or against any officer of the
State or the City, to prevent or enjoin the collection under this ordinance, or Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to
be collected.

Section 3.05.140. ANNUAL AUDIT AND PUBLIC REPORT. Annually the City Council
retains an independent auditor to conduct an audit of and provide audited financial
statements for all of the City's financial activities. The auditor shall include an accounting of
the revenue received from the tax and expenditures thereof in the audited financial
statements. The auditor's report shall be presented to the Council and made available to the
public. Additionally, the Director of Administrative Services shall annually prepare and
present to the Council and the public a report in conjunction with the audit that reviews the
status and performance of the programs and services filnded wholly or partially with
proceeds of the tax.

Section 3.05.150. TERMINATION DATE. The authority to levy the tax imposed by this
ordinance shall expire on the ninth anniversary of the operative date, unless extended by a
majority vote of the voters of the City.

SECTION 3. SEVERABILITY. If any provision of this ordinance or the application thereof
to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the ordinance and the
application of such provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

SECTION 4. EFFECTIVE DATE. This ordinance relates to the levying and collecting of the
City transactions and use taxes and shall take effect immediately . SECTION 5.
PUBLICATION. The Clerk of the City of Cotati is hereby directed to cause the following
summary of the ordinance to be published by one (1) insertion in The Community Voice, a
newspaper of general circulation, circulated in the City of Cotati:

Contingent upon majority voter approval, this ordinance adopts a one cent (1%) transactions
and use tax on the sale or consumption of tangible personal property within the City of
Cotati. The tax shall terminate automatically upon the ninth anniversary of the State
beginning to collect it, unless extended by the voters.