Measure H

Parcel Tax Continuation
Evergreen School District

2/3 Approval Required

To provide competitive and safe learning environments and enhance student
achievement by

•	Improving hands-on science, technology and math instruction;

• Keeping class size low;

•	Improving teacher quality and training;

•	Protecting arts/music programs and libraries;

•	Ensuring adequate student supervision and safety;

Shall the Evergreen Elementary School District renew a parcel tax at $100 per
parcel for 5 years with citizen oversight, annual reports, a senior exemption, and no
money for District administrators' salaries or the State?

Meaning of Voting Yes/No

A YES vote on this measure means:

A "yes" vote is a vote to approve a qualified special tax of $100 per parcel on
parcels within the District for five years.

A NO vote on this measure means:

A "no" vote is a vote to not approve a qualified special tax of $100 per parcel on
parcels within the District for five years.

Impartial Analysis from County Counsel

A school district may levy a special tax upon approval by two-thirds of the
votes cast on a measure pursuant to section 4 of article XIIIA of the California
Constitution and sections 50075 et seq. of the California Government Code.

The Board of Trustees (Board) for the Evergreen School District (District) proposes
Measure H, a five-year parcel tax of $100 per parcel per year. If approved, the parcel tax
will commence on July 1, 2014 and expire on June 30, 2019.

The proposed tax exempts any parcel that is a principal residence of, and owned by, one
or more persons 65 years of age or older.

State law requires the District to state the specific purposes for which the tax proceeds
will be used and only spend the proceeds of the tax for these purposes. The stated
purposes of the tax proposed by Measure H are to (1) advance hands-on science,
technology and math instruction; (2) maintain low class sizes; (3) improve teacher
quality through enhanced professional development; (4) ensure continuation of grades
4-8 arts/music programs; (5) enhance student supervision and safety; and (6) maintain
five days of library support at all schools. Revenues generated by Measure H will not be
used for District administrators' salaries or for the State.

The District is required by law to provide additional accountability measures for the
proceeds. These measures include (1) depositing the proceeds into a fund that is
separate and apart from other District funds; and (2) providing an annual written
report to the Board detailing the amount of funds collected and expended and the status
of any project authorized to be funded from the tax. The Superintendent of the District
will appoint or designate an advisory committee of citizens, which will report annually
to the Board and public regarding the expenditure of the tax proceeds.

Measure H was placed on the ballot by the Board.

A "yes" vote is a vote to approve a qualified special tax of $100 per parcel on parcels
within the District for five years.

A "no" vote is a vote to not approve a qualified special tax of $100 per parcel on parcels
within the District for five years.

Orry P. Korb
County Counsel

By: /s/ Susan Swain

Lead Deputy County Counsel

Arguments For Measure H

Evergreen School District is one of the top
performing districts in the County. All
eighteen of our schools have earned the
prestigious California Distinguished School
Award.

Five years ago, Evergreen voters passed
Measure T to preserve the high-quality
education our local elementary and middle
school students deserve. Measure T expires
in June 2014. Measure H simply continues
our community's history of supporting a first-
class education for our children.

Today's students need to be prepared for
tomorrow's jobs. Measure H enhances
science, technology, and math programs to
give our children the solid academic
background needed to thrive in the future.

Students benefit from the individual attention
they receive in small classes. Measure H will

keep class sizes low and create better
learning environments for our kids.

Measure H continues our investment in
student safety by providing enhanced
supervision and safety at all schools through
appropriate staffing.

Creative problem solving skills are critical in
today's global economy. Studies show that
students involved in arts and music programs
average 90 points higher on the SAT. Measure
H safeguards art and music programs at our
schools.

Measure H is a smart investment. High-
quality schools protect property values and
provide for a strong community. Measure H
will cost homeowners only $8.33 a month,
cannot increase over time, and it expires in 5
years. Measure H allows for an exemption for
senior citizens.

Measure H has built in taxpayer protections.

It requires annual reports, a citizen's
oversight committee, and absolutely no
money can go towards district office
administrators' salaries.

Measure H is our opportunity to ensure that
Evergreen schools remain the pride of our
neighborhoods where our children receive a
world-class education.

Our students deserve our support. Vote Yes
on Measure

H. http: //www.supportevergreenschools.com
/s/ Sylvia Alvarez

President, Evergreen School District Board of
Trustees

/s/ Brian Wheatley

President, Evergreen Teachers Association

/s/ Raelene De Santiago
President, Evergreen Council of PTA's

/s/ Jeremy Barousse

President, District 8 Community Round Table

/s/ Robert Wendell
Resident, The Villages

Rebuttal to Arguments For

Evergreen Elementary School District is
trying to use the state budget crisis to grab
unearned money. They want to hike the 2008
tax of $90 per parcel to $100 every year for 5
years! Consider this:

-Student enrollment is virtually flat.

-The number of teachers has declined from
632, in the 2009-10 school year, to 566 in
2011-12 (latest figures available).

With the same number of students, and fewer
teachers, shouldn't expenses drop?

Doesn't matter: the District wants even more
money.

But don't we value those remaining teachers?
Yes! Here's a comparison of Evergreen
Elementary School District's teacher salaries
to those statewide (on average):

2011-12 | Enrollment: 13,347

Teachers' salary = $79,787 | Statewide =
$68,603

2010-11 | Enrollment: 13,388

Teachers' salary = $78,130 | Statewide =
$67,388

2009-10 | Enrollment: 13,323

Teachers' salary = $74,978 | Statewide =
$67,531

Source: Education Data Partnership -
- www.ed-data. kl 2. ca. us

What about "class size reduction"?

In 2008, they promised to "maintain class
size reduction". Did they?

According to Education Data Partnership, the
class size in the 2008-09 year was 26
students per teacher. In 2011-12 (latest
figures available) it is 28.2 students per
teacher.

Failed promise???

Teach Evergreen Elementary School District's
board to be financially responsible and hold
them accountable for promises made in the
2008 ballot measure: Vote NO on Measure H.

For more information, please

visithttp: //www.SVTaxpayers.org/2014-06-

evergreen-elementarv-sd-parcel-tax.

/s/ Mark W.A. Hinkle

President: Silicon Valley Taxpayers

Association

/s/ Edward Leo Wimmers

Chair, Libertarian Party of Santa Clara County

Arguments Against Measure H

Evergreen Elementary School District is trying to use the state budget crisis to
grab unearned money. They want to hike the 2008 tax of $90/parcel to $100,
every year for 5 years! Consider this:

-	Student enrollment is virtually flat.

-	The number of teachers has declined from 632, in the 2009-10 school year, to 566 in
2011-12 (latest figures available).

With the same number of students, and fewer teachers, shouldn't expenses
drop? Doesn't matter: the District wants even more money.

But don't we value those remaining teachers? Yes! Here's a comparison of Evergreen
Elementary School District's teacher salaries to those statewide [on average):

2011-12 |	Enrollment:	13,347 Teachers'salary = $79,787	|	Statewide =	$68,603

2010-11 |	Enrollment:	13,388 Teachers'salary = $78,130	|	Statewide =	$67,388

2009-10 |	Enrollment:	13,323 Teachers'salary = $74,978	|	Statewide =	$67,531

(Source:Education Data Partnership, www.Ed-Data.K12.ca.usl

What about homeowners and renters?

They haven't stopped feeling the pinch of the economic downturn and inflation. With
Santa Clara County's official unemployment rate at 6.3% [up from 5.8% in December,
2013), but the real rate — counting people who have stopped trying to find work - far
higher, Measure H will increase everyone's housing cost [except the few senior
homeowners who remember to file for their exemption), hurting the unemployed the
worst.

The District says that none of these funds will be used for administration. But that's an
empty promise: any funds generated outside this parcel tax can simply be shifted to
administration — without limit. Don't be fooled by the shell game.

Everywhere, families' budgets are being slashed — why not also at Evergreen
Elementary School District?

Teach Evergreen Elementary School District's board to be financially responsible: Vote
NO on Measure H.

For more information, please visithttp://www.SVTaxpayers.org/2014-06-evergreen-
elementarv-sd-parcel-tax.

/s/ Mark W.A. Hinkle

President: Silicon Valley Taxpayers Association

/s/ Edward Leo Wimmers

Chair, Libertarian Party of Santa Clara County

Rebuttal to Arguments Against

Evergreen School District's teachers, community leaders, and parents agree that
Measure H gives our students the resources they need to keep Evergreen School District
as one of the top performing districts in the County.

Measure H replaces the existing parcel tax, Measure T, which expires this

June. Without Measure H, our schools risk losing the ability to:

• Improve hands-on science, technology and math instruction,

•	Keep class sizes low,

•	Improve teacher quality and training,

•	Enhance student supervision and safety,

•	Protect arts/music programs and protect existing school library
hours.

Measure H improves hands-on science, math and technology programs for our

students, preparing them for the 21st Century economy. It helps keep class
sizes low, allowing students to get the individual attention in the classroom
they need.

Measure H improves teacher quality and training, ensuring our students benefit
from highly skilled teachers. It also provides enhanced supervision and safety at all

schools through appropriate staffing.

Measure H protects taxpayers by guaranteeing annual financial reports, a citizen's
oversight committee and by guaranteeing that no money goes towards district office
administrators' salaries. Measure H cannot increase over time, and it expires in 5
years. Measure H also allows for an exemption for senior citizens.

High-quality schools protect our property values. Measure H will help the Evergreen
School District maintain its place as one of the top school districts in Silicon
Valleywith the likes of Cupertino, Los Gatos and Palo Alto.

Protect our students. Protect our schools. Protect your property values. Vote Yes on
H. http://www.supportevergreenschools.com

/s/ Sylvia Alvarez

President, Evergreen School District Board of Trustees
/s/ Brian Wheatley

President, Evergreen Teachers Association

/s/ Raelene De Santiago
President, Evergreen Council of PTA's

/s/ Jeremy Barousse

President, District 8 Community Round Table

/s/ Robert Wendell
Resident, The Villages

Full Text of Measure H
EVERGREEN ELEMENTARY SCHOOL DISTRICT ACADEMIC EXCELLENCE MEASURE

Measure H

Recitals

Whereas, the Board of Trustees ("Board") of the Evergreen Elementary School District
("District") has established the goals of improving academic performance and the
quality of education for all children in the District so that they are prepared for high
school and beyond; and

Whereas, the District aims to enhance local control of our schools and reduce its
dependence on the State of California for education funding; and

Whereas, by law, all funds from this local funding measure must be used to protect the
specified programs in District schools and cannot be taken away by the State. Strict
accountability is mandatory, including no funds for District administrators' salaries
and independent citizen oversight and annual reports to ensure funds are spent as
promised.

Terms

To provide competitive, supportive and safe learning environments and enhance
student achievement, the Evergreen Elementary School District proposes this Measure
to support the following specific programs and expenditures:

•	Advancing hands-on science, technology and math instruction;

•	Maintaining low class sizes;

•	Improving teacher quality through enhanced professional development;

•	Ensuring continuation of grades 4-8 arts/music programs;

•	Enhancing student supervision and safety;

•	Maintaining 5 days of library support at all schools

The Evergreen Elementary School District shall renew a parcel tax at $100 per parcel
for 5 years with citizen oversight, annual reports, a senior exemption and no money for
District administrators' salaries or the State.

A.	Amount and Basis of Tax

The special tax shall be $100 per Parcel of Taxable Real Property beginning in July 1,
2014, and continuing for a period of five (5) years. The District shall provide the Santa
Clara County Tax Collector ("County Tax Collector") a report indicating the parcel
number and amount of tax for each Parcel of Taxable Real Property.

To the extent allowed by law, "Parcel of Taxable Real Property" shall be defined as:

(a)	Any unit of real property in the District that receives a separate tax bill for ad
valorem property taxes from the County Tax Collector.

(b)	All property that is otherwise exempt from or upon which are levied no ad valorem
property taxes in any year shall not be considered a Parcel of Taxable Real Property for
purposes of the special tax in such year.

(c)	Multiple parcels which are contiguous, under common ownership, and that
constitute one economic unit, meaning that they have the same primary purpose as the
principal parcel and are not separate and distinct properties that may be
independently developed or sold, shall comprise a single Parcel of Taxable Real
Property for purposes of the special tax.

If any portion of this definition is deemed contrary to law, the Board declares and the
voters by approving the Measure concur, that every other section and part of this
definition has independent value, and the Board and voters would have adopted each
other section and part hereof regardless of every other section or part hereof. If all
sections or parts of this definition are deemed contrary to law, "Parcel of Taxable Real
Property" shall be defined as any real property in the District assigned an assessor's
parcel number.

B.	Senior Persons' Exemption from Special Tax

Under procedures adopted by the District, an exemption from payment of the special
tax may be granted on any parcel owned by one or more persons sixty-five [65] years
of age or over and occupying said parcel as a principal residence ("Senior Citizen
Exemption"). The District shall annually provide to the Santa Clara County Tax
Collector ("County Tax Collector") or other appropriate County official a list of parcels
that the District has approved for an exemption.

C.	Claim / Exemption Procedures

With respect to all general property tax matters within its jurisdiction, the County Tax
Collector or other appropriate County tax official shall make all final determinations of
tax exemption or relief for any reason, and that decision shall be final and binding.

With respect to matters specific to the levy of the special tax, including its legality or
validity, the Senior Citizen Exemption, the application of the definition of "Parcel of
Taxable Real Property" to any parcel(s) or any other disputed matter specific to the
application of the special tax, the decisions of the District shall be final and binding. The
procedures described herein, and any additional procedures established by the Board
shall be the exclusive claims procedure for claimants seeking an exemption, refund,
reduction, or re-computation of the special tax. Whether any particular claim is to be
resolved by the District or by the County shall be determined by the District, in
coordination with the County as necessary.

D.	Appropriations Limit

Pursuant to California Constitution and applicable laws, the appropriations limit for
the District will be adjusted periodically by the aggregate sum collected by levy of this
special tax.

E.	Accountability Measures

1.	Specific Purposes. The proceeds of the special tax shall be applied only to the specific
purposes identified above.

2.	Annual Reports. The proceeds of the special tax shall be deposited into an account,
which shall be kept separate and apart from other accounts of the District, pursuant to
the Government Code. No later than December 31 of each year while the tax is in effect,
the District shall prepare and file with the Board a report detailing the amount of funds
collected and expended during the prior fiscal year, and the status of any project
authorized to be funded by this measure. The report may relate to the calendar year,
fiscal year, or other appropriate annual period, as said officer shall determine, and may
be incorporated into or filed with the annual budget, audit, or other appropriate
routine report to the Board.

3.	Advisory Committee. An advisory committee of citizens shall be appointed or
designated by the Superintendent to ensure that the special tax proceeds are spent for
their authorized purposes, and to report annually to the Board and the public
regarding the expenditure of such funds. The Board may provide by resolution for the
composition, duties, funding, and other necessary information regarding the
committee's formation and operation, and the Superintendent may elect to extend the
existing parcel tax advisory committee to oversee expenditure of funds from this
measure.

F.	Protection of Funding

Current law forbids any decrease in State or federal funding to the District resulting
from the adoption of an education parcel tax. However, if any such funding is reduced
or affected because of the adoption of this local funding measure, then the Board may
reduce the amount of the special taxes levied as necessary in order to restore such
State or federal funding and/or maximize the District's fiscal position for the benefit of
the educational program. As a result, whether directly or indirectly, no funding from
this measure may be taken away by the State or federal governments.

G.	Severability

The Board hereby declares, and the voters by approving this measure concur, that
every section and part of this measure has independent value, and the Board and the
voters would have adopted each provision hereof regardless of every other provision
hereof. Upon approval of this measure by the voters, should any part of the measure or
taxing formula be found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any
reason, all remaining parts of the measure or taxing formula hereof shall remain in full
force and effect to the fullest extent allowed by law.