BALLOT MEASURE SUBMITTAL
FORM

BALLOT MEASURE QUESTION	
Jurisdiction Name: ., „ x _ , ,. _  Alameda County Transportation Commission	Election Date: November ^ ^

Note: The information as it appears within the measure question text box will be printed on the ballot.
Insert ballot question text here:

Shall voters authorize implementing the Alameda County 30 year
Transportation Expenditure Plan to:

Expand and modernize BART in Alameda County;

Improve transit connections to jobs and schools;

Fix roads, improve highways and increase bicycle and pedestrian safety;
Reduce traffic congestion and improve air quality; and
Keep senior, student, and disabled fares affordable?

Approval augments by % cent and extends the existing County sales tax, with
independent oversight and audits. All money will benefit local residents.

TYPE OF MEASURE

0 Regular Measure |	|	Bond	Measure

PERCENTAGE NEEDED TO PASS

66.67	%

FULL TEXT OPTION

Full Text to be printed in the Voter Information Pamphlet:

0 YES (note: must submit separate copy of Full Text along with this form)

NO - A Full Text was not submitted
^ NO - Do not print, but it's accessible at:_________________________

AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE

Print Name:

Arthur L. Dao

Date:

August 4, 2014

Signature:

CONTACT INFORMATION (for office use)

CONTACT INFORMATION (for public)

Phone #:_

Phone #:

510-208-7428

E-Mail:

E-Mail/Website:

tlengyel@alamedactc.org/www. alamedactc.org

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE BB

ANALYSIS BY THE ALAMEDA COUNTY COUNSEL OF AN

ALAMEDA COUNTY TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION SALES TAX MEASURE

This measure seeks voter approval of an ordinance that provides for the following three
items. (1) an extension of the existing one-half of one percent (0.5%) transactions and use tax
until March 31, 2045 for transportation purposes, currently set to expire in March of 2022; (2) an
increase to the transactions and use tax by one-half of one percent (0.5%) resulting in a total tax
of one percent (1%), and (3) authorization for the Alameda County Transportation Commission
(“Commission”) to issue limited tax bonds.

The Alameda County Congestion Management Agency and the Alameda County
Transportation Improvement Authority merged to create the Commission in July of 2010 The
Commission has the authority to increase the transactions and use tax upon approval by two-
thirds of the votes cast under the terms of the measure and California Public Utilities Code
section 180201

The tax proceeds will only fund the projects and programs outlined in the Alameda
County 2014 Transportation Expenditure Plan (the “Plan”), which may be amended, the Plan is
printed in the voter pamphlet. According to the Plan, 48% of the tax proceeds will fund BART,
bus, senior and youth transit, 30% of the tax proceeds will fund improvements to local streets
and roads, 9% of the tax proceeds will be spent on traffic relief on highways in Alameda County;
8% of the tax proceeds will be used for local bicycle and pedestrian paths and safety; 4% of the
tax proceeds will fund community development investments, and 1% of the tax proceeds will
fund technologies to manage the transportation system. The tax proceeds may only fund
transportation improvements in Alameda County

Under the measure’s terms, the salaries and benefits of administrative staff shall not
exceed 1% of the tax proceeds The remaining administrative costs shall not exceed 4% of the
tax proceeds.

The measure also authorizes the Commission to issue tax bonds to finance the Plan’s
projects. The Commission shall not have outstanding at any one time limited tax bonds in
excess of one billion dollars.

The measure creates the Independent Watchdog Committee (“Committee”) The
Committee will review and oversee all expenditures of the tax proceeds and report directly to
the public. The Committee’s annual report will include information on spending and the
progress made in implementing the Plan. The expenditures are also subject to annual
independent audits.

If two-thirds of the qualified electors voting on this measure do not vote for approval, the
measure will fail, and the Commission will not be authorized to extend and increase the tax
outlined above

This measure is placed on the ballot by the Board of Supervisors of the County of
Alameda.

County Counsel

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure BB, which is printed in full in
this sample ballot pamphlet. If you desire an additional copy of the measure, please call the
Elections Official’s office at (510) 272-6933 and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you You
may also access the full text of the measure on the Alameda County website at the following
address www acqov.org/rov/

First approved by Alameda County voters in 1986 and renewed in 2000 with 81%
voter approval, Measure BB's predecessor measures have provided critical
transportation infrastructure and services for nearly three decades.

Measure BB is a detailed plan; the result of four years of careful planning in
collaboration with seniors, business and community leaders, environmentalists,
transit activists and taxpayer advocates.

Measure BB will expand BART, keep fares affordable for seniors, disabled and young
people, fix roads, fill potholes, restore bus transit services and reduce traffic
congestion to manage our aging infrastructure and provide good transportation for
Alameda County residents.

Measure BB will also create jobs and grow our local economy. A recent study by the
Bay Area Economic Council found that Measure BB will create 150,000 jobs and
provide nearly 20 billion dollars of economic investment in Alameda County.

This detailed plan was developed to benefit Alameda County residents. The plan
reduces greenhouse gas emissions and slows the increase of vehicle miles travelled
while expanding our local transportation network. Measure BB will:

•	Expand and improve BART service across Alameda County;

•	Keep transit fares affordable for seniors, youth and people with
disabilities and restore bus service;

•	Improve air quality and provide clean transportation options, including
bike paths, walkways and trails;

•	Create jobs in Alameda County;

•	Fix our roads and reduce traffic congestion by fixing difficult intersections
and providing alternatives to driving.

Measure BB is a robust plan with strong accountability measures. It requires an
independent citizen's oversight committee and annual financial and performance
audits. Every dollar raised by Measure BB stays in Alameda County to improve local
transportation.

Every city in Alameda County voted unanimously to support Measure BB. Seniors,
transit activists, taxpayer advocates, business leaders, environmentalists and
neighborhood leaders throughout Alameda County all agree: vote YES on Measure
BB. www.YesonBB.org.

Argument Against Measure BB

Measure BB would double the current transportation sales tax and extend it for 30 more
years, thereby saddling Alameda County's struggling middle class, seniors, poor and
small businesses with the highest county sales tax in California. Yet, if approved, the
measure would buy nothing but a $7.8 billion mixed bag of unrelated projects.

Despite the billions of transportation dollars spent in Alameda County over the past 25
years, not much has changed for the better. On the contrary, during this period, public
transit use has declined and traffic congestion has gotten worse. If approved, Measure
BB would bring more of the same.

For example, the measure would allocate $400 million toward a $1.2 billion BART
extension to Livermore. This is plainly not a prudent use of tax dollars. There are far
more cost-effective ways of providing excellent transit service to the County's outlying
communities.

Under this measure, AC Transit would receive $1.5 billion, with no strings attached.
Instead of simply restoring previous service levels, AC Transit must be required to
improve its operating efficiency, streamline its routes, reduce duplicative service and
coordinate better with BART.

Under Measure BB's misplaced priorities, motor vehicle travel in Alameda County would
increase by a whopping 46%, according to the Countywide Transportation Plan (page 3-
11). This would result in both unprecedented traffic congestion on city streets and
sharply higher greenhouse gas emissions.

Reject this regressive tax increase! Send a message to County officials that you want a
better plan that:

•	Increases transportation choices while reducing our carbon footprint

•	Makes it easier and more convenient for more people to leave their cars at home

•	Doesn't squander money on another low-ridership, high-cost BART extension

•	Makes Alameda County the leader it should be in climate protection

This plan costs too much, does too little and hurts too many. Vote NO!

Visit www.VoteNoOnBB.com

Direct Argument Signers

For Measure BB

Argument in Favor

1.	Sylvia J. Stadmire

Senior Advocate United Seniors of Alameda County

2.	Janet Kathleen Quick

Convener - Alameda County Council of the Leagues of Women Voters

3.	Barbara A. Price

President, Alameda County Taxpayers Association

4.	James Earp

Executive Director, California Alliance for Jobs

5.	Scott Haggerty

Chair, Alameda County Transportation Commission & County Supervisor

Argument Against

1.	Bob Feinbaum

Co-Founder Bay Area Transportation Working Group

2.	Gerald Cauthen
Treasurer - TRANSDEF

3.	Sherman Lewis
Former BART Director

4.	Douglas L. Mann
Pleasanton Business Owner

5.	Paul D Cummings, Jr
Oakland-Based Association Executive

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE BB

Have the billions of tax dollars already spent on Alameda County transportation resulted in fewer freeway
backups? Are city streets smoother and less congested? Are bus and BART improved? Now they
want to restart the same failed process, this time using a flawed and deceptively promoted, $7.8 Billion
sales tax:

•  •	If passed, Alameda Countv’s sales tax will be the hiqhest of all California counties. Moreover. Union Citv and Albanv will have the hiqhest total sales tax, with San Leandro close behind.  Measure BB pays $400 Million towards a $1.2 Billion Livermore BART extension. $250 Million per mile is irresponsible!
•	Seniors, youth and the disabled need the one cent of every dollar this tax will take -- it hurts the poor and those on fixed incomes the most.
•	84% of AC Transit operating costs are already subsidized. Why give them almost $2 Billion more without requiring increased efficiency?
•  •	The sales tax would do nothing to prevent or head off a major increase in County driving. Its promoters deceptively claim that greenhouse gas emissions would drop!  The claimed averaqe of 5,000 iobs/vear are larqelv temporary or part-time. We need permanent Alameda County jobs.
•	The “watchdog” committee will be comprised of favored stakeholders and Measure BB supporters. That’s political payback, not independence, transparency or accountability!

We have eight more years to get this right! Join our growing coalition of transportation and financial
experts, environmentalists, business people, good government advocates and fed-up taxpayers. Send
this failed plan back to the drawing board.

Vote NO on Measure BB. VisitNoOnBB.com. Thank You!

Measure BB's few opponents miss the point. They seek to confuse voters with false
information and fail to mention a four-year detailed planning process that engaged
thousands of Alameda County residents to develop this important measure.

The facts:

Fact: The Sierra Club, League of Conservation Voters, TransForm, Bike East Bay and
many others support Measure BB because it will slow the increase in vehicle miles
travelled. With BB, traffic congestion and air pollution will decrease below what
they would be without BB because vehicle miles traveled will drop below the rate of
population growth.

Fact: The United Seniors of Alameda County endorse Measure BB because it will
expand services and keep transit affordable for seniors, young and disabled people.
It will expand and upgrade BART in Alameda County and provide transportation
independence for our most vulnerable populations.

Fact: The Alameda County Taxpayers Association and the Alameda County Leagues
of Women Voters endorse BB because it includes a detailed plan backed by the best
possible [AAA] bond rating with independent citizen's oversight, annual financial
audits and strict performance measures for all funding recipients. Every dollar
stays in Alameda County to improve local transportation.

Nearly everyone who has studied this measure supports it. The League of Women
Voters, United Seniors, Alameda County Taxpayers, Sierra Club, Local Chambers of
Commerce, and every city in Alameda County unanimously endorse Measure BB.

Expand BART and transit, protect our seniors, disabled and young people, decrease
traffic congestion and generate 150,000 new Alameda County jobs.

VOTE YES on BB.

www.YesonBB.org.

Rebuttal Signers
For Measure BB

Rebuttal to the Argument in Favor:

1.	Thomas A. Rubin

CPA, Transportation Consultant, Former AC Transit CFO

2.	Suzanne Caro

Chairman Alameda County Republican Party

3.	Mary B. Steel

Pres, Citizens Alliance for Property Rights SF Bay Chapter

4.	Kay Ayala

Pleasanton Councilmember (’96 - ’04)

5.	David Miller

Chairman, Alameda County Taxpayer Coalition, Pleasanton Resident

Rebuttal to Argument Against:

1.	Janet Kathleen Quick

Convener - Alameda County Council of the Leagues of Women Voters

2.	Abel Guillen

Board member, League of Conservations Voters of the East Bay

3.	Bill Harrison

Mayor, City of Fremont

4.	Keith Carson

Chair, East Bay Economic Development Alliance & President, Alameda County Board of
Supervisors

5.	YuTing (Elizabeth) Lam
Sierra Club

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE

ORDINANCE NO. 2014-1

AN ORDINANCE PROVIDING FOR AN EXTENSION OF AN EXISTING AND AUGMENTATION
BY ONE-HALF OF ONE PERCENT OF ALAMEDA COUNTY’S TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX
UNTIL MARCH 31,2045 BY THE ALAMEDA COUNTY TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION
FOR TRANSPORTATION PURPOSES, FOR THE ISSUANCE OF LIMITED TAX BONDS,

AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES

The Governing Body of the Alameda County Transportation Commission
(“Alameda CTC”) does ordain as follows:

ARTICLE I
General

Section 1. Title

This ordinance shall be known as the “Alameda County Transportation Commission
Transaction and Use Tax Ordinance” and may also be referenced as the “Ordinance”
herein. This ordinance shall be applicable in the incorporated and unincorporated
territory of the County of Alameda.

Section 2. Period of Tax

This Ordinance is intended to extend and augment the imposition and collection
in Alameda County of an existing one-half of one percent transactions and use tax for
transportation purposes. The existing tax currently will expire as of March 31, 2022; this
measure will extend the expiration of that tax to March 31, 2045. The Ordinance will
also augment the tax by one-half of one percent which shall be imposed beginning at
the close of polls on the day of the election at which the measure is adopted by two-
thirds vote of the electors voting on the measure or as soon thereafter as the tax may
be lawfully imposed until March 31,2045, for a total tax of one percent.

Section 3. Purpose

Alameda CTC is the result of a merger of the Alameda County Transportation
Improvement Authority, which formerly administered the existing half-cent transaction
and use tax, and the Alameda County Congestion Management Agency, which was
formerly responsible for long-range planning and programming of transportation funds.
Pursuant to Division 19 of the Public Utilities Code (commencing with Section 180000),
Alameda CTC, the Board of Supervisors and the cities of Alameda, Albany, Berkeley,
Dublin, Emeryville, Fremont, Hayward, Livermore, Newark, Oakland, Piedmont,
Pleasanton, San Leandro and Union City have approved the 2014 Transportation
Expenditure Plan adopted by the Alameda CTC Governing Body and have
recommended that a measure be submitted to the voters of the County for their
endorsement which would, if passed, authorize Alameda CTC to augment by one half

016861.0110\3597157.1

R:\AlaCTC_Meetings\Commission\Commission\20140626\8.1_TEP_Final_Approval_Ordinance\8.1_A_2014_TEPOrdinance_twoballotquestions.doc

of one percent and extend an existing one-half of one percent transactions and use
tax scheduled to sunset in 2045, and authorize Alameda CTC to issue limited tax bonds
to finance the transportation improvements set forth in the 2014 Transportation
Expenditure Plan.

The purposes of this ordinance are as follows:

a)	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the provisions
of Part 1.6 (commencing with Revenue and Taxation Code Section 7291) of Division 2 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code and Division 19 of the Public Utilities Code which
directs the County Board of Supervisors to place the tax ordinance on the ballot for
voter approval, exercising the taxing power granted to the Alameda CTC pursuant to
Public Utilities Code Division 19, which shall be operative if a two-thirds majority of the
electors voting on the measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax.

b)	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance which incorporates
provisions identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California
insofar as those provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and limitations
contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

c)	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance which imposes a tax
and provides a measure therefor that can be administered and collected by the State
Board of Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and
requires the least possible deviation from the existing statutory and administrative
procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization in administering and collecting
the California State Retail Transactions and Use Tax

d)	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance which can be
administered in a manner that will, to the greatest degree possible consistent with the
provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost
of collecting the transactions and use taxes and at the same time minimize the burden
of record keeping upon persons subject to taxation under the provisions of this
ordinance.

e)	To improve, construct, maintain, and operate certain transportation projects
and facilities contained in the 2014 Transportation Expenditure Plan, which Plan is
incorporated here by this reference as though fully set forth herein, and as that Plan
may be amended from time to time pursuant to applicable law and as provided in the
2014 Transportation Expenditure Plan. Any amendment must be adopted by a two-
thirds vote of the Alameda CTC Governing Body. All jurisdictions within the county will
be given a minimum of 45 days to comment on any proposed Transportation
Expenditure Plan amendment.

f)	To set a term for the tax augmentation which will begin at the close of polls
on the day of the election at which the measure is adopted by two-thirds vote of the
electors voting on the measure or as soon thereafter as the tax may be lawfully
imposed until March 31, 2045, and the extension of the existing transaction and use tax
beginning April 1,2022 through March 31,2045.

016861.0110X3597157.1	2

R:\AlaCTC_Meetings\Commission\Commission\20140626\8.2_TEP_FinaLApprovaLOrdinance\8.2_A_2014_TEPOrdinanc

e_20140618_FINAL.doc

Section 4. Contract with State.

Prior to the operative date, Alameda CTC shall contract with the State Board of
Equalization to perform all functions incident to the administration and operation of this
transactions and use tax ordinance; provided that, if Alameda CTC shall not have
contracted with the State Board of Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall
nevertheless so contract and in such a case the operative date shall be the first day of
the first calendar quarter following the execution of such a contract.

Section 5. Transactions Tax Rate

For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax is hereby
imposed upon all retailers in this County at the rate of an additional one-half of one
percent until March 31,2045, which tax shall be imposed concurrently with the existing
one-half percent tax, of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible
personal property sold at retail in this County on and after the operative date. This tax
shall be imposed through March 31,2045.

Section 6. Place of Sale.

For the purposes of this ordinance, all retail sales are consummated at the place
of business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is delivered by the
retailer or its agent to an out of state destination or to a common carrier for delivery to
an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery
charges, when such charges are subject to the state sales and use tax, regardless of
the place to which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of
business in the state or has more than one place of business, the place or places at
which the retail sales are consummated shall be determined under rules and
regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the State Board of Equalization.

Section 7. Use Tax Rate.

An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other consumption in this
County of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on and after the
operative tax date for storage, use or other consumption in this County at the rate of an
additional one-half of one percent until March 31, 2045, which tax shall be imposed
concurrently with the existing one-half percent tax, of the sales price of the property
until March 31,2045. The sales price shall include delivery charges when such charges
are subject to state sales or use tax regardless of the place to which delivery is made.

Section 8. Adoption of Provisions of State Law.

Except as otherwise provided in this ordinance and except insofar as they are
inconsistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code (commencing with Section 6001), all of the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a part of this ordinance
as though fully set forth herein.

016861.0110X3597157.1	3

R:\AlaCTC_Meetings\Commission\Commission\20140626\8.2_TEP_FinaLApproval_Ordinance\8.2_A_2014_TEPOrdinanc

e_20140618_FINAL.doc

Section 9. Limitations on Adoption of State Law and Collection of Use Taxes.

In adopting the provisions of Part I of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation

Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing agency,
the name of Alameda CTC shall be substituted therefor. The substitution, however, shall
not be made when:

IThe word State is used as part of the title of the State Controller,
State Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Board of Equalization,
State Treasury, or the Constitution of the State of California

2The substitution would require action to be taken by or against
Alameda CTC or any agency, officer or employee thereof
rather than by or against the State Board of Equalization, in
performing the functions incident to the administration or
operation of this ordinance;

3The substitution shall not be made in those sections, including,
but not necessarily limited to, sections referring to the exterior
borders of the State of California, where the result of the
substitution would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to
certain sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible
personal property which would not otherwise be exempt
from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other
consumption remains subject to tax by the State under the
Provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code; or

b.	lmpose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use
or other consumption of tangible personal property which
would not remain subject to tax by the state under the said
provisions of that code

4.	The substitution shall not be made in sections 6701,6702, (except
in the last sentence thereof), 6711, 6715, 6737, 6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code.

B.	The name of the County shall be substituted for the word “State" in the phrase
“retailer engaged in business in this State” in Section 6203 and in the definition of that
phrase in Section 6203.

016861.0110X3597157.1	4

R:\AlaCTC_Meetings\Commission\Commission\20140626\8.2_TEP_Final_Approval_Ordinance\8.2_A_2014_TEPOrdinanc

e_20140618_FINAL.doc

Section 10. Permit Not Required.

If a seller's permit has been issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional transactor's permit shall not be required by
this ordinance.

Section 11. Exemptions, Exclusions and Credits.

a)	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the use
tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or by any
city, city and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley Burns Uniform Local Sales and
Use Tax Law or the amount of any state-administered transactions or use tax.

b)	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax
gross receipts from:

1)	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum
products, to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside Alameda
County and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of
persons or property under the authority of the laws of this state, the United States, or any
foreign government.

2)	Sales of property to be used outside the County which is shipped to a
point outside the County, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by
the retailer or its agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a
consignee at such point. For the purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point outside
the County shall be satisfied:

(i)	with respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles)
subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of
Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of
the Public Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels registered under Chapter 2 of
Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code, by registration to
an out-of-County address and by a declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by
the buyer, stating that such address is, in fact, his principal place of residence, and

(ii)	with respect to commercial vehicles by registration to a
place of business out-of-county, and a declaration under penalty of perjury, signed
by the buyer, that the vehicle will be operated from that address.

016861.0110X3597157.1	5

R:\AlaCTC_Meetings\Commission\Commission\20140626\8.2_TEP_FinaLApproval_Ordinance\8.2_A_2014_TEPOrdinanc

e_20140618_FINAL.doc

3)	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to furnish
the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative
date of this ordinance.

4)	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of
such property for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the
property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5)	For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4), the sale or lease of
tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract
or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the
unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such
right is exercised.

c)	There is exempted from the use tax imposed by this ordinance the storage,
use or other consumption in this County of tangible personal property:

1)	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a
transactions tax under any state administered transactions and use tax ordinance.

2)	Other than fuel or petroleum products, purchased by operators of
aircraft and used or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the use of
such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under
a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this
State, the United States, or any foreign government. This exemption is in addition to the
exemptions provided in Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of
the State of California.

3)	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price
pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

4)	if the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, tangible
personal property arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such property
for any period of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the property for an
amount fixed by a lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5)	For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4), storage, use or other
consumption, or possession, or exercise of any right or power over, tangible personal
property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any
period of time during which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional
right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is
exercised.

6)	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in business
in the County shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible
personal property, unless the retailer ships or delivers the property into the County or
participates within the County in making the sale of the property, including, but not
limited to, soliciting or receiving the order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of

016861.0110X3597157.1	6

R:\AlaCTC_Meetings\Commission\Commission\20140626\8.2_TEP_FinaLApprovaLOrdinance\8.2_A_2014_TEPOrdinanc

e_20140618_FINAL.doc

business or the retailer in the County or through any representative, agent, canvasser,
solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the County under the authority of the retailer.

7)	“A retailer engaged in business in the County” shall also include any
retailer of any of the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1
(commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in
compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels
registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) or the Vehicle Code.
That retailer shall be required to collect use tax from any purchaser who registers or
licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the County.

d)	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit against that
tax any transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district or
retailer imposing, or retailer liable for, a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2
of the Revenue and Taxation Code with respect to the sale to the person of the
property the storage, use or other consumption of which is subject to the use tax.

Section 12. Propositions.

There shall be proposed to the voters of Alameda County the following
proposition:

“Shall voters authorize implementing the Alameda County 30 year Transportation
Expenditure Plan to:

•	Expand and modernize BART in Alameda County;

•	Improve transit connections to jobs and schools;

•	Fix roads, improve highways and increase bicycle and pedestrian safety;

•	Reduce traffic congestion and improve air quality;

•	Keep senior, student, and disabled fares affordable?

Approval augments by 'A cent and extends the existing County sales tax, with
independent oversight and audits. All money will benefit local residents."

Section 13.Limitation on Issuance of Bonds.

Unless approved by the Alameda CTC Governing Body and by the voters,
Alameda CTC shall not have outstanding at any one time in excess of $1,000,000,000 in
limited tax bonds.

Section 14. Use of Proceeds.

The proceeds of the transaction and use tax imposed by this ordinance shall be
used solely for the projects and purposes set forth in the 2014 Transportation Expenditure
Plan, as it may be amended from time to time, and for the administration thereof.

Section 15. Appropriations Limit.

For purposes of Article XIIIB of the State Constitution, the appropriations limit for
Alameda CTC for fiscal year 2014-2015 and thereafter, including activities, projects and

016861.0110\3597157.1	7

R:\AlaCTC_Meetings\Commission\Commission\20140626\8.2_TEP_Final_Approval_Ordinance\8.2_A_2014_TEPOrdinanc

e_20140618_FINAL.doc

programs funded by the transaction and tax authorized hereby along with activities,
projects and programs funded by other local, state and federal funds, shall be
$800,000,000, unless that amount is amended pursuant to applicable law.

Section 16. Amendments.

All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this ordinance to Part I of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and which
are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, and all amendment to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part of this ordinance; provided,
however, that no such amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax
imposed by this ordinance.

Section 17. Enjoining Collection Forbidden

Any action or proceedings in any court questioning the validity of the adoption
of this transactions and use tax ordinance or issuance of any bonds thereunder or any
proceeding related thereto shall commence within six months from the date of the
election at which this ordinance is approved. Otherwise, the bonds and all proceedings
related thereto, including the adoption and approval of this ordinance, shall be held
valid and in every respect legal and incontestable.

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in
any suit, action or proceeding in any court against the State or Alameda CTC, or
against any officer of the State or Alameda CTC, to prevent or enjoin the collection
under this ordinance, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any
tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.

Section 18. Severability.

If any provision of this ordinance or the application thereof to any person or
circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the ordinance and the application of
such provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

Section 19. Effective Date.

This ordinance relates, in substantial part, to the continuation and expansion of the
authority for Alameda CTC to levy and collect the transactions and use taxes to
support the 2014 Transportation Expenditure Plan and shall take effect at the close of
the polls on the day of election at which the proposition is adopted by two-thirds vote
of the electors voting on the measure, or as soon thereafter as the tax may be lawfully
imposed.

PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Members of the Alameda County Transportation
Commission on June 26, 2014 by the following vote:

016861.0110X3597157.1	8

R:\AlaCTC_Meetings\Commission\Commission\20140626\8.2_TEP_FinaLApproval_Ordinance\8.2_A_2014_TEPOrdinanc

e_20140618_FINAL.doc

AYES: 25
NOES: 0
EXCUSED: 2

ATTEST:
of Alameda CTC

, Clerk

s/.

016861.0110X3597157.1	9

R:\AlaCTC_Meetings\Commission\Commission\20140626\8.2_TEP_FinaLApprovaLOrdinance\8.2_A_2014_TEPOrdinanc

e_20140618_FINAL.doc

ME//

2014 ALAMEDA COUNTY
TRANSPORTATION EXPENDITURE PLAN

January 2014

' County Transportation
Commission



TABLE OF CONTENTS

Page

INTRODUCTION...................................................1

BACKGROUND.....................................................7

TRANSPORTATION INVESTMENTS....................................11

GOVERNING BODY AND ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE...................35

IMPLEMENTING GUIDELINES.......................................37

PLAN APPROVALS................................................40

2014 Alameda County Transportation Expenditure Plan |

INTRODUCTION

New transportation investments are needed throughout Alameda County.

Over the term of this Plan, Alameda County's population will grow by almost 30%, and the senior
population will double. This means more demand on our streets, highways and transit. Without new
funding, Alameda County will lose job opportunities, experience increased traffic on degraded streets
and highways, suffer potential service cuts on buses and BART and see more costly transportation
services for youth, seniors and people with disabilities.

Transportation projects create jobs. For over 25 years, the Alameda County Transportation
Commission (Alameda CTC) has successfully delivered projects that create good quality, local jobs
while delivering transportation solutions. It is funding BART to the Oakland Airport and an
extension toward Silicon Valley, local street maintenance, bicycle and walking safety programs for
youth and seniors, bus operations and maintenance, and highway efficiency projects to relieve traffic
and provide commuter choices. Alameda CTC combined agencies, saving millions of dollars per
year, and earned AAA financial credit ratings—the highest possible—and 100% of its annual audits
have been verified by independent auditors and a citizens watchdog committee made up of Alameda
County residents.

This Plan benefits people who live in Alameda County. This detailed Plan will
expand BART, bus, and rail services within Alameda County, keep transit fares affordable for youth,
seniors, and people with disabilities, provide traffic relief on city streets and highways using new
technology, improve air quality, and create good quality, local jobs. It supports an environmentally
sustainable future, transforming our transportation network over the coming decades to meet our
growing needs, while supporting jobs as our local economy continues to recover. This Plan will:

•	Expand BART, bus and commuter rail for reliable, safe and fast services, including
BART expansion and improvements within Alameda County, bus service expansion, and
commuter rail service improvements.

•	Keep fares affordable for seniors, youth and people with disabilities, including
affordable senior shuttles, vans and services that help keep seniors independent, and critical
funding for student transit passes to ensure youth can affordably get to school. It also funds
reliable and inexpensive transportation for people with disabilities.

•	Provide traffic relief, including funds to every city in the County to repave streets, fill
potholes, and upgrade local transportation infrastructure. It also invests in aging highway
corridors to upgrade on and off ramps, using modern technology to manage traffic and
improve safety.

•	Improve air quality and provide clean transportation by reducing pollution using
innovative technology and expanding bike and pedestrian paths, and BART, bus and
commuter rail expansion and operations.

•	Create good jobs within Alameda County by requiring local contracting that supports
residents and businesses in Alameda County.

Strict accountability and performance measures ensure delivery. The 30-year Plan

includes strict accountability measures to ensure all $8 billion for County transportation
improvements are spent on approved projects. It requires open and transparent public processes to
allocate funds, annual independent audits, an independent watchdog committee made up of people
who live in Alameda County, and annual compliance reports distributed to the public that detail costs
and how specific performance measures are met.

2014 Alameda County Transportation Expenditure Plan

1

INTRODUCTION	
ALAMEDA COUNTY TRANSPORTATION EXPENDITURE PLAN SUMMARY	
Summary of Investments	FUNDS ALLOCATION* ($ x million)
BART, Bus, Ferry and Commuter Rail for Reliable, Safe and Fast Services	$2,768
BART Expansion and Maintenance	$749
Bus Operations, Maintenance and Rapid Bus Projects	$1,548
Commuter Rail Improvements	$432
Ferry Services in Alameda County	$39
Affordable Transit for Youth, Seniors and People with Disabilities  Affordable Youth Transit to School and Transit Innovation Affordable Transit for Seniors and People with Disabilities	$964  $190  $774
Traffic Relief on Streets and Highways	$3,025
City and County Streets*	$2,348
Highway Safety and Efficiency	$677
Clean Transportation, Community Development, Technology and Innovation  Bicycle and Pedestrian Paths and Safety Projects and Educational Programs* Community Development Projects to Improve Access to Jobs and Schools Technology and Innovation	$1,028  $651  $300  $77
TOTAL INVESTMENTS (YEAR 2015 TO 2045)**	$7,785

Notes:

*15% of city and county streets funding will support bicycle and pedestrian paths and safety improvements on local streets.
**Estimated funds from 2015 to 2045 are anticipated to be almost $8 billion.

$7,785 in Total Investments Year 2015 to 2045

BARTr Bu$, Ferry and
Commuter Rail
$2768 Billion

Affordable Transit for
Youth, Seniors and People
with Disabilities
$964 Million

Technology and
Inoovotten
$77M

Community Development to Improve
Acceti to Job* orto Sctood

S300M	/

Bicycle and f edesliton

Clean Transportation, ram* ond sotoiy
Community Development S4S,M
Technology and Innovation
$1,028 Billion

local Sheet*
Maintenance and Safety
S2.346M

Traffic Relief on
Streets and Highways
Highway Safety $3,025 Billion

and Efficiency
SA77M

See Table 1 for a detailed list of transportation investments.

2

2014 Alameda County Transportation Expenditure Plan

INTRODUCTION

Table 1: List of Investments				
Type	Investment Category	Project/Program	Amount ($ x millions)	% of Total Funds
	Transit: Operations, Maintenance, and Safety Program	AC Transit	$1,455.15	18.8%
		Altamont Commuter Express	$77.40	1.0%
		BART Maintenance	$38.70	0.5%
		San Francisco Bay Area Water Emergency Transportation Authority	$38.70	0.5%
		Livermore Amador Valley Transit Authority	$38.70	0.5%
		Union City Transit	$19.35	0.25%
		Innovative grant funds, including successful student transportation programs	$174.63	2.24%
	Affordable Transit Program for Students and Youth	Affordable Student Transit Pass Program	$15.00	0.19%
		Subtotal	$1,857.63	24%
	Affordable Transit for Seniors and People with Disabilities	City-based and Locally Mandated	$232.20	3.0%
		East Bay Paratransit - AC Transit	$348.31	4.5%
		East Bay Paratransit - BART	$116.10	1.5%
		Coordination and Service Grants	$77.40	1.0%
BART, Bus, Senior, and Youth Transit (48%)		Subtotal	$774.01	10%
	Rapid Bus Projects	Telegraph Avenue/East 14th/ International Boulevard project	$10.0	14%
		Alameda to Fruitvale BART Rapid Bus	$9.0	
		Grand/MacArthur BRT	$6.0	
		College/Broadway Corridor Transit Priority	$10.0	
		Subtotal	$35.0	
	BART System Modernization and Expansion	Irvington BART Station	$120.0	
		Bay Fair Connector/BART METRO	$100.0	
		BART Station Modernization and Capacity Program	$90.0	
		BART to Livermore	$400.0	
		Subtotal	$710.0	
	Major Transit Corridor  Enhancements and Rail Connections	Dumbarton Corridor Area Transportation Improvements	$120.0	
		Union City Intermodal Station	$75.0	
		Railroad Corridor Right of Way Preservation and Track Improvements	$110.0	
		Oakland Broadway Corridor Transit	$10.0	
		Capitol Corridor Service Expansion	$40.0	
		Subtotal	$355.0	
	TOTAL		$3,731.64	48%

Notes: Priority implementation of specific investments and amounts for fully defined capital projects and phases will be
determined as part of the Capital Improvement Program developed through a public process and adopted by Alameda CTC
every two years and will include geographic equity provisions.

BART Maintenance funds will require an equal amount of matching funds and must be spent in Alameda County.

All recipients of sales tax funds will be required to enter into agreements which will include performance and accountability
measures.

3

INTRODUCTION

Table 1: List of Investments				
Type	Investment Category	Project/Program	Amount ($ x millions)	% of Total Funds
		North County Example Projects		
		Solano Avenue Pavement resurfacing and beautification; San Pablo Avenue Improvements; State Route (SR) 13/Ashby Avenue Corridor; Marin Avenue local road safety; Gilman railroad crossing; Park Street, High Street, and Fruitvale Bridge Replacement; Powell Street Bridge widening at Christie; East 14th Street; Oakland Army Base transportation infrastructure improvements		
		Central County Example Projects		
		Crow Canyon Road safety; San Leandro		
		streets*; Lewelling Blvd./Hesperian Blvd.; Tennyson Road Grade Separation		
		South County Example Projects		
	Congestion Relief,	East-West Connector in North Fremont		
				
Local Streets	Local Bridge Seismic	and Union City; I-680/I-880 cross		10%
Maintenance	Safety	connectors; widen Fremont Boulevard		
and Safety		from 1-880 to Grimmer Boulevard;		
(30%)		upgrades to relinquished Route 84 in Fremont; Central Avenue overcrossing; Thornton Ave widening; Newark streets		
		East County Example Projects		
		El Charro road improvements; Dougherty Road widening; Dublin Boulevard widening; Greenville Road widening; Bernal Bridge Construction		
		Subtotal	$639.00	
		Countywide Freight Corridors		
		Outer Harbor Intermodal Terminal; 7th Street Grade Separation and Roadway Improvement; Truck Routes serving the Port of Oakland		
		Subtotal	$161.00	
	Direct Allocation to Cities and County	Local streets maintenance and safety program	$1,548.03	20%
	TOTAL		$2,348.03	30%

Notes: Priority implementation of specific investments and amounts for fully defined capital projects and phases will be
determined as part of the Capital Improvement Program developed through a public process and adopted by the Alameda CTC
every two years and will include geographic equity provisions.

All recipients of sales tax funds will be required to enter into agreements which will include performance and accountability
measures.

*This includes $30 million for San Leandro local streets maintenance and safety improvements.

INTRODUCTION

Table 1: List of Investments				
Type	Investment Category	Project/Program	Amount ($ x millions)	% of Total Funds
□  Traffic Relief on Highways (9%)	1-80 Improvements	1-80 Gilman Street Interchange improvements	$24.00	8%
		1-80 Ashby Interchange improvements	$52.00	
		Subtotal	$76.00	
	SR-84 Improvements	SR-84/I-680 Interchange and SR-84 Widening	$122.00	
		SR-84 Expressway Widening (Pigeon Pass to Jack London)	$10.00	
		Subtotal	$132.00	
	1-580 Improvements	I-580/I-680 Interchange improvements	$20.00	
		1-580 Local Interchange Improvement Program: Interchange improvements - Greenville, Vasco, Isabel Avenue (Phase 2); Central County 1-580 spot intersection improvements	$28.00	
		Subtotal	$48.00	
	1-680 Improvements	1-680 High Occupancy Vehicle/Toll (HOV/HOT) Lane between SR-237 and Alcosta	$60.00	
		Subtotal	$60.00	
	1-880 Improvements	1-880 NB HOV/HOT Extension from A St. to Hegenberger	$20.0	
		1-880 Broadway/Jackson multimodal transportation and circulation improvements	$75.0	
		Whipple Road/Industrial Parkway Southwest Interchange improvements	$60.0	
		1-880 Industrial Parkway Interchange improvements	$44.0	
		1-880 Local Access and Safety: Interchange improvements at Winton Avenue; 23rd/29th Ave., Oakland; 42nd Street/High Street; Route 262 (Mission) improvements and grade separation; Oak Street	$85.00	
		Subtotal	$284.00	
	Highway Capital Projects	Subtotal	$600.00	
	Freight & Economic Development	Freight and economic development program	$77.40	1%
	TOTAL		$677.40	9%

Notes: Priority implementation of specific investments and amounts for fully defined capital projects and phases will be
determined as part of the Capital Improvement Program developed through a public process and adopted by the Alameda CTC
every two years and will include geographic equity provisions.

All recipients of sales tax funds will be required to enter into agreements which will include performance and accountability
measures.

INTRODUCTION

Table 1: List of Investments				
Type	Investment Category	Project/Program	Amount ($ x millions)	% of Total Funds
Kfa!  Bicycle and Pedestrian Paths and Safety (8%)	Bicycle and Pedestrian Infrastructure & Safety	Gap Closure on Three Major Trails: Iron Horse, Bay Trail, and East Bay Greenway/UPRR Corridor	$264.00	3%
		Bicycle and pedestrian direct allocation to cities and Alameda County	$232.20	3%
		Bicycle and pedestrian grant program for regional projects and trail maintenance	$154.80	2%
	TOTAL		$651.00	8%
■  Community  Develop-ment  Investments  (4%)	Community Investments That Improve Transit Connections to Jobs and Schools	North County Example Projects*		4%
		Broadway Valdez Priority Development Area; Eastmont Mall Priority Development Area; BART station areas: Oakland Coliseum; Lake Merritt; West Oakland; 19th St; MacArthur; Ashby; Berkeley Downtown		
		Central County Example Projects		
		Downtown San Leandro Transit Oriented Development (TOD); Bay Fair BART Transit Village; San Leandro City Streetscape Project; South Hayward BART Station Area		
		South County Example Projects		
		BART Warm Springs West Side Access Improvements; Fremont Boulevard Streetscape Project; Union City Intermodal Infrastructure Improvements; Dumbarton TOD Infrastructure Improvements		
		East County Example Projects		
		West Dublin BART Station and Area Improvements; Downtown Dublin TOD; East Dublin/Pleasanton BART Station and Area Improvements		
		Subtotal	$300.00	
	TOTAL		$300.00	4%
Technology  ci%)	Technology, Innovation, and Development	Technology, Innovation, and Development program	$77.40	1%
TOTAL NEW NET FUNDING (2015-45)			$7,785	

Notes: Priority implementation of specific investments and amounts for fully defined capital projects and phases will be
determined as part of the Capital Improvement Program developed through a public process and adopted by the Alameda CTC
every two years and will include geographic equity provisions.

All recipients of sales tax funds will be required to enter into agreements which will include performance and accountability
measures.

* Preliminary allocation of North County Funds subject to change by Alameda CTC: Coliseum BART Area ($40 M), Broadway
Valdez ($20 M), Lake Merritt ($20 M), West Oakland ($20 M), Eastmont Mall ($20 M), 19th Street ($20 M), MacArthur ($20 M),
Ashby ($18.5 M), Berkeley Downtown ($20 M). These funds may also be used to fund shuttles that serve Alameda County
residents and businesses.

2014 Alameda County Transportation Expenditure Plan

BACKGROUND

THE 2014 ALAMEDA COUNTY
TRANSPORTATION EXPENDITURE PLAN

The 2014 Alameda County Transportation
Expenditure Plan (referred to throughout this
document as the Plan) responds to the county's
continued transportation needs through the extension
and augmentation of a locally generated and
protected funding stream. These funds cannot be
used for any purpose other than local transportation
needs. It cannot be taken by the State or by any other
governmental agency under any circumstance, and
over the life of this Plan can only be used for the
purposes described in the Plan, or as may be
amended.

The 2014 ballot measure supported by this Plan
augments and extends the existing Alameda County
Measure B half-cent transportation sales tax by a half-
cent to April 1, 2045. It is anticipated that the sales tax
extension and augmentation in this ballot measure
would generate about $8 billion for essential
transportation improvements in every city and
throughout Alameda County.

The 2014 Transportation Expenditure Plan funds
critical improvements that will:

•	Expand BART, bus and commuter rail for
reliable, safe and fast services. The Plan includes
expansions and improvements to BART within
Alameda County, bus service expansion and
commuter rail service improvements.

•	Keep fares affordable for seniors, youth and
people with disabilities. The Plan funds
affordable senior shuttles, vans and services that
expand transportation choices and help keep
seniors independent. The Plan provides critical
funding for student transit passes to ensure
youth can affordably get to school. It also
expands funding for reliable and inexpensive
transportation for people with disabilities.

•	Provide traffic relief. The Plan provides critical
funds to every city in the County to repave
streets, fill potholes, and upgrade local
transportation infrastructure. The Plan also
invests in key aging highway corridors to
upgrade on and off ramps and uses modern
technology to manage traffic and improve safety.

•	Improve air quality and clean transportation.

The Plan reduces pollution by using innovative
technology and investing in alternatives to
driving, including significant improvements in
bike and pedestrian facilities and BART, bus and
commuter rail expansion and operations.

•	Create good jobs within Alameda County. The

expenditure plan requires local contracting to
create good quality jobs that support residents
and businesses in Alameda County.

TAXPAYER SAFEGUARDS * •

The commitments in this expenditure plan are

underpinned by a set of strong taxpayer safeguards

to ensure that they are met. These include:

•	An annual independent audit and report to the
taxpayers on expenditures and performance
measures;

•	Ongoing monitoring and review by an
Independent Watchdog Committee; and

•	Strict limits on administrative expenses charged
to these funds.

2014 Alameda County Transportation Expenditure Plan

7

BACKGROUND

LOCAL FUNDS SPENT LOCALLY

The revenue generated through this transportation
sales tax will be spent exclusively on projects and
programs in Alameda County. All of the projects and
programs included in the expenditure plan are
considered essential for the transportation needs of
Alameda County.

THE 2014 TRANSPORTATION
EXPENDITURE PLAN WAS DEVELOPED
WITH FULL PUBLIC INVOLVEMENT

This expenditure plan was developed in conjunction
with the Alameda County wide Transportation Plan
(CWTP), the long range policy document that guides
transportation investments, programs, policies and
advocacy for Alameda County. A Steering
Committee and two working groups (technical and
community) were established to guide development
of both the CWTP and this Plan.

Public engagement and transparency were the
foundations of the development of these plans. A
wide variety of stakeholders, including businesses,
technical experts, environmental and social justice
organizations, and seniors and people with
disabilities, helped shape the plan to ensure that it
serves the county's diverse transportation needs.
Thousands of Alameda County residents participated
through public workshops and facilitated small
group dialogues; a website allowed for online
questionnaires, access to all project information, and
submittal of comments; and advisory committees that
represent diverse constituencies were integrally
involved in the plan development process from the
beginning.

The 2014 Plan benefited from a performance-based
project evaluation process undertaken for the CWTP.
This allowed policies and goals to be expressed in
quantifiable terms and competing transportation
investments to be compared to one another
objectively. This led to a more systematic and
analytical selection process for effective investment
priorities.

City councils in the county and the County Board of
Supervisors each held public meetings and voted to
approve this Plan and recommended submission of
the sales tax measure to the voters.

VISION AND GOALS

The development of the County wide Transportation
Plan and the Transportation Expenditure Plan began
by establishing a vision and set of goals for the
County's transportation system:

Vision: Alameda County will be served by a premier
transportation system that supports a vibrant and
livable Alameda County through a connected and
integrated multimodal transportation system
promoting sustainability, access, transit operations,
public health and economic opportunities.

The vision recognizes the need to maintain and
operate the County's existing transportation
infrastructure and services while developing new
investments that are targeted, effective, financially
sound and supported by appropriate land uses.
Transportation in Alameda County will be guided by
transparent decision-making and measureable
performance indicators, and will be supported by
these goals:

Goals: Alameda County's transportation system
will be:

•	Multimodal (BART, bus, train, ferry, bicycle,
walking and driving)

•	Accessible, affordable and equitable for people
of all ages, incomes, abilities and geographic
locations

•	Integrated with land use patterns and local
decision-making

•	Connected across the county, within and across
the network of streets, highways, transit, bicycle
and pedestrian routes

•	Reliable and efficient

•	Cost effective

•	Well maintained

•	Safe

•	Supportive of a healthy and clean environment

8

2014 Alameda County Transportation Expenditure Plan

BACKGROUND

WHY EXTEND AND AUGMENT A
MEASURE NOW?

While the existing measure will remain intact
through 2022, the 2014 Plan has been developed for
several reasons:

•	Most capital projects in the existing measure
have been completed ahead of schedule.

Without a new plan, the County will be unable to
fund any new major projects to address pressing
mobility needs.

•	Bus services in Alameda County have been cut
significantly, and the gap between road
maintenance needs and available funding is at
an all-time high. The 2014 Plan will allow local
funding to fill in the gaps created by declining
state and federal revenue, keep needed services
in place and restore service cuts for many
providers.

•	The demand on Alameda County's roads,
highways, BART and buses is increasing.

Alameda County's population is growing, and as
the economy improves, more people and goods
are moving on roads and transit. Investments are
needed to maintain and improve the current
transportation system to ensure it can effectively
accommodate current and future growth.

STATUS OF THE 2000 MEASURE B
EXPENDITURE PLAN—FULFILLING THE
PROMISE TO VOTERS

Voters in Alameda County have always recognized
the need to provide stable and local funding for the
County's transportation needs. In 1986, Alameda
County voters authorized a half-cent transportation
sales tax to finance improvements to the county's
overburdened transportation infrastructure. An even
wider margin of voters reauthorized this tax in 2000,
with over 81.5% support. Detailed expenditure plans
have guided the use of these funds. The 2000 Plan
provides over $120 million each year for essential
operations, maintenance and construction of
transportation projects. It authorized the expenditure
of funds for the extension of BART to Warm Springs,
transit operations, rapid bus improvements
throughout the county, bicycle and pedestrian trails
and bridges, a countywide Safe Routes to School
Program, and affordable transportation services for
seniors and people with disabilities. It has also
provided congestion relief throughout Alameda

County by widening Interstate (I) 238, constructing
the 1-680 express lane, improving 1-580 and 1-880, and
upgrading surface streets and arterial roadways.

Most of the 27 major projects in the 2000 Plan have
been completed or are under construction, many
ahead of schedule. Annual audits by independent
certified public accountants have verified that 100%
of the public funds authorized in the 2000 Plan have
been spent as promised.

BENEFITS FROM THE 2000 MEASURE B
EXPENDITURE PLAN

The 2000 Plan local transportation sales tax has
provided a substantial share of the total funding
available for transportation projects in Alameda
County, far exceeding annual state and federal
commitments. State and federal sources have
diminished over time, and local sources have come to
represent over 60% of the money available for
transportation in the county. The 2000 measure has
been indispensable in helping to meet the county's
growing needs in an era of shrinking resources.

The county's ability to keep up with street
maintenance needs, such as filling potholes and
repaving roadways, is fundamentally dependent on
these local funds. Targeted improvements funded
through the 2000 Plan such as the new express lane
on 1-680 and the widening of 1-238 have relieved
congestion on critical county commute corridors. A
new Warm Springs BART station will open soon in
the southern part of the county as the beginning of a
new connection to Silicon Valley. The 2000 Plan has
supported transit operations, improved the safety of
children getting to schools throughout the county and
funded special transportation services that provide
over 900,000 trips for seniors and people with
disabilities every year.

These local funds have also allowed the county to
compete effectively for outside funds by providing a
local match fund source. The 2000 Plan has attracted
over $3 billion of additional funds from outside
sources for Alameda County transportation
investments.

9

BACKGROUND

2014 Alameda County Transportation Expenditure Plan

This Transportation Expenditure Plan includes
almost $8 billion in funding over 30 years. The
investments described in this Plan will be made
from 2015 to 2045, if voters approve the ballot
measure in 2014. These improvements are necessary
to address current and projected transportation needs
in Alameda County, current legislative mandates,
and reflect the best efforts to achieve consensus
among varied interests and communities in
Alameda County.

The projects in this Plan are designed to strengthen
the economy and improve quality of life in Alameda
County, reduce traffic congestion, improve air quality
and create jobs. They include maintenance of existing
infrastructure, targeted investments to improve
highway safety, remove bottlenecks on major
commute corridors, enhance rail, bus and ferry transit
systems, and make it safer and easier to bike and
walk throughout the county.

Two types of investments are funded in this Plan:
capital investments which are allocated specific dollar
amounts in the Plan, and operations and maintenance
investments which are allocated a percentage of net
revenues to be distributed on a monthly or periodic
basis. Capital investments will be made based upon
clearly defined project descriptions and limits
resulting from the outcomes of environmental
analyses, as applicable. Examples of operations and
maintenance investments include providing funds to
local jurisdictions to complete ongoing operations
and maintenance tasks such as transit operations and
local street maintenance. The following summarizes
total expenditures by type including both capital and
operations and maintenance investments.

BART, BUS, SENIOR AND YOUTH
TRANSIT (48%)

Increasing the number of people that can be served
by BART, buses, commuter rail, and senior and youth
transit is critical to all residents of Alameda County to
provide transportation choices, relieve congestion
and support a vibrant economy. The investments
identified in this Plan were guided by the principles
of enhancing safety, convenience and reliability to
maximize the number of people who can make use of
the transit system. This Plan represents a major
investment in Alameda County's transit system to
increase transit services and expand access to transit
throughout the County, and to help avoid further
service cuts and preserve affordability of transit.

LOCAL STREETS MAINTENANCE AND
SAFETY (30%)

Local streets are the essential building blocks of
Alameda County's transportation system. Virtually
every trip begins or ends on a local street. Alameda
County has more than 3,400 miles of aging streets
and roads, many of which are in need of repair:
intersections need to be reconfigured, traffic lights
need to be synchronized and potholes need to be
filled. Most importantly, these streets are essential to
every mode of transportation from cars and trucks, to
buses, bikes and pedestrians.

TRAFFIC RELIEF ON HIGHWAYS (9%)

Aging highway systems continue to operate under
substantial pressure as travel patterns become more
diverse and the demand for moving goods and
people increases. While the era of major highway
construction has come to an end in the Bay Area,
there are many opportunities to increase the safety
and efficiency of highway corridors in Alameda
County. The highway investments included in this
Plan focus on improving safety, relieving bottlenecks
at interchanges, closing gaps and improving



11

2014 Alameda County Transportation Expenditure Plan

TRANSPORTATION INVESTMENTS

COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
INVESTMENTS (4%) AND TECHNOLOGY
AND INNOVATION (1%)

Transportation investments in local communities are
strengthened when development focuses on bringing
together transportation choices, housing and
expanded access to jobs and schools. This Plan
includes investments in every part of the County,
enhancing areas around BART stations and bus

efficiency with carpool and high occupancy vehicle
infrastructure, and increasing safety on major truck
route corridors. In highway corridors where sales tax
investments will be made to implement high
occupancy toll (HOT) or express lanes, the net toll
revenues generated will be used to fund additional
improvements within those corridors, including
transit capital projects and operations.

In addition to focusing on highway efficiencies, this
Plan recognizes the need to move goods safely and
effectively. Recognizing the economic importance of
the Port of Oakland, highways must provide
connections between goods and market, and do so
with minimal impacts to residential neighborhoods.

BICYCLE AND PEDESTRIAN PATHS
AND SAFETY (8%)

Most trips begin or end on foot. Alameda County's
bicycle and pedestrian infrastructure is the "glue"
that holds the network together by extending the
reach of transit service, providing a non-polluting
and sustainable travel mode, and contributing to
public health and quality of life. A particular focus is
on the County's youth to encourage adoption of safe
and healthy habits through Safe Routes to Schools.

transfer hubs that are slated for new development,
and supporting communities where biking, walking
and transit riding are all desirable options.

For transportation projects funded in this Plan to
promote the development of housing and jobs near
transit areas, project sponsors will mitigate direct
displacement as a result of projects.

In addition, a Technology, Innovation and
Development Program will support technological
advances in transportation management and
information.

The map on the following page shows the
investments planned in all areas of the County.

12

2014 Alameda County Transportation Expenditure Plan

For illustrative purposes only



Berkeley

Alameda County Projects
by Category

Bicycle and Pedestrian Paths and Safety
Q Traffic Relief on Highways
Q BART, Bus and Commuter Transit
^ Community Development Investments

-	Transit Operations, Maintenance, and Safety

-	Affordable Student Transit Pass Program

-	Affordable Transit for Seniors and Persons with Disabilities

-	Bicycle and Pedestrian Safety Educational Programs

-	Freight and Economic Development

-	Local Streets Maintenance

-	Major Commute Corridor Improvements

-	Technology and Innovation Investments

Not Shown:

TRANSPORTATION INVESTMENTS

BART, BUS, SENIOR AND YOUTH TRANSIT

A total of 48% of net
revenue will be dedicated to
BART, bus, commuter rail,
and senior and youth transit
investments. Funds for
operations and maintenance
will be provided to transit
operators in the county (AC Transit, BART,

Union City Transit and Livermore Amador Valley
Transit Authority (LAVTA)) as well as to ferries
and the Altamont Commuter Express (ACE) rail
service. In addition, these funds will substantially
increase Alameda County’s commitment to the
growing transportation needs of older adults and
people with disabilities, essentially doubling the
funds available for targeted services for this
important group. Grant funds are also available
to support affordable transportation access to
schools. Major capital investments include
upgrades to the existing BART system and
BART extensions, adding bus rapid transit
routes to improve the utility and efficiency of
transit, and providing funding for transit
improvements serving the Dumbarton Corridor
Area.

TRANSIT OPERATIONS, MAINTENANCE,
AND SAFETY PROGRAM (24% OF NET
REVENUE, $1,857 M)

This program provides transit operators with a
consistent funding source for maintaining, restoring
and improving transit services in Alameda County.
Transit operators will allocate these funds in
consultation with their riders and policy makers with
the goal of creating a world class transit system that
is an efficient, effective, safe and affordable
alternative to driving.

This funding will support the following:

Transit Operations and Maintenance Program
(21.55% of net revenue, estimated at $1.668 M)

Funds are disbursed to AC Transit, BART, ACE, the
Water Emergency Transportation Authority (WETA),
LA VTA and Union City Transit. The relative
percentage of net revenue being allocated to these
agencies is as follows:

Agency	% of Net Total Revenue	Total 2015- 2045 (est.) $Millions
AC Transit	18.8%	$1,455
ACE	1.0%	$77
BART Maintenance	0.5%	$39
WETA (ferries)	0.5%	$39
LAVTA (WHEELS)	0.5%	$39
Union City Transit	0.25%	$19
Total Transit Operations	21.55%	$1,668

Affordable Youth Transit Pass Program
($15 million)

This program is for the purposes of funding one or
more models for a student transit pass program. The
program would be designed to account for
geographic differences within the county. Successful
models determined through periodic reviews will
have the first call for funding within the innovative
grant program, as described below.

Innovative Grant Program including successful
student transportation programs (2.24% of net
revenue, estimated at $175 M)

These grant funds, administered by Alameda CTC,
will be used for the purposes of funding innovative
and emerging transit projects, including
implementing successful models aimed at increasing
the use of transit among junior high and high school
students, including a transit pass program for
students in Alameda County. Successful models will
receive the first priority for funding from this
category.

Funds will be periodically distributed by
Alameda CTC for projects and programs with proven
abilities to accomplish the goals listed below:

•	Increase the use of public transit by youth riders
(first priority for funding) and increase youth
access to school

•	Enhance the quality of service for transit riders

•	Reduce costs or improve operating efficiency

•	Increase transit ridership by improving the rider
experience

•	Enhance rider safety and security

14

2014 Alameda County Transportation Expenditure Plan

BART, BUS, SENIOR AND YOUTH TRANSIT

•	Enhance rider information and education about
transit options

•	Enhance affordability for transit riders

•	Implement recommendations for transit service
improvements from Community Based
Transportation Plans and the County's transit
plan

These funds will be distributed periodically by
Alameda CTC. Grant awards will emphasize
demonstrations or pilot projects which can leverage
other funds.

AFFORDABLE TRANSIT FOR SENIORS
AND PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES (10%
OF NET REVENUE, $774 M) * •

This program provides funds for local solutions to
the growing transportation needs of older adults and
people with disabilities. Funds will be provided to
transit operators to provide specialized
transportation service mandated by the Americans
with Disabilities Act (ADA). In addition, funds will
be provided to each part of the County based on its
population of residents over age 70 for local
programs aimed at improving mobility for seniors
and people with disabilities. The program includes
three components.

Funding for East Bay Paratransit Consortium (6%
of net revenue, estimated at $464 M)

This funding will assist the East Bay Paratransit
Consortium in meeting the requirements of the ADA.
These funds will be disbursed to and directed by the
two agencies that operate the East Bay Paratransit
Consortium:

•	AC Transit will receive 4.5% of net proceeds
annually, estimated at $348 M from 2015 to 2045,
towards meeting its responsibilities under the
ADA.

•	BART will receive 1.5% of net proceeds annually,
estimated at $116 M from 2015 to 2045, towards
meeting its responsibilities under the ADA.

City and local Transit Operator funding (3% of net
revenue, estimated at $232 M)

Funding provided to each of the four subareas of the
County will be used for implementation of locally
developed solutions to address the mobility
challenges of older adults and people with

disabilities. Funds will be distributed monthly based
on the percentage of the population over age 70 in
each of four planning areas for city-based and
mandated paratransit services of local bus transit
providers:

•	North County - including the cities of Albany,
Alameda, Berkeley, Emeryville, Oakland and
Piedmont.

•	Central County - including the cities of Hayward
and San Leandro or unincorporated areas.

•	South County - including the cities of Fremont,
Union City, and Newark, as well as Union City
Transit.

•	East County - including the cities of Livermore,
Dublin, Pleasanton, unincorporated areas, and
LAVTA.

Funds can be further allocated to individual cities
within each planning area based on a formula refined
by Alameda CTC's Paratransit Advisory and
Planning Committee (PAPCO), a group of seniors
and people with disabilities that advises
Alameda CTC. In East County, funding provided to
Livermore and Dublin will be assigned to LAVTA for
their ADA-mandated paratransit program. In Central
County, funding will be provided to Hayward to
serve the unincorporated areas.

Coordination and Service Grants (1% of net
revenue, estimated at $77 M)

These funds, administered by Alameda CTC, will be
used for the purposes of coordinating services across
jurisdictional lines or filling gaps in the system to
meet the mobility needs of seniors and people with
disabilities. These funds will be periodically
distributed by Alameda CTC for projects and
programs with proven ability to:

•	Improve mobility for seniors and people with
disabilities by filling gaps in the services
available to this population.

•	Provide education and encouragement to seniors
and people with disabilities who are able to use
standard public transit to do so.

•	Improve the quality and affordability of transit
and paratransit services for those who are
dependent on them.

•	Improve the efficiency and effectiveness of ADA-
mandated and local services.

2014 Alameda County Transportation Expenditure Plan |	15

BART, BUS, SENIOR AND YOUTH TRANSIT

RAPID BUS AND TRANSIT
IMPROVEMENTS ($35 M)

A total of $35 M in sales tax funds will be allocated to
projects that enhance the reliability and speed of bus
transit services in the East Bay. These projects include
the implementation of Bus Rapid Transit and transit
priority projects on some of the busiest corridors in
the AC Transit system.

AC Transit East Bay Bus Rapid Transit (BRT)
Projects ($25 M)

Bus Rapid Transit is a technology that reduces bus
travel times, improves the efficiency of transit service
and reduces conflicts between bus service and auto
travel on major streets. Three BRT corridors are
proposed:

•	The Telegraph Avenue/East l^/International
Boulevard project will provide enhanced transit
service connecting the Cities of San Teandro and
Oakland with potential improved rapid bus
services to UC Berkeley.

•	The Grand/MacArthur BRT project will enhance
transit service and allow for significant reliability
improvements in this critical corridor as well as
enhancing access to regional services at the
MacArthur BART station.

•	The Alameda to Fruitvale BART Rapid Bus

service will provide a fast and reliable connection
between the City of Alameda and the Fruitvale
BART station, providing service to new
development proposed for the City of Alameda.

Funds may be used for project development, design,
construction, access and enhancement of the rapid
transit corridors. These sales tax funds will allow the
Telegraph/East 1 ^/International project to be
completed and will provide the needed leverage as
local matching funds to attract outside funds to the
other corridors which are currently under
development.

College/Broadway Corridor Transit Priority ($10 M)

Funding will be provided for the implementation of
transit priority treatments to improve transit
reliability, reduce travel times and encourage more
transit riders on the well-utilized College/Broadway
corridor.

16

2014 Alameda County Transportation Expenditure Plan

BART, BUS, SENIOR AND YOUTH TRANSIT

RAPID BUS TRANSIT INVESTMENTS

©■-

College/Broadway Corridor:
Transit Priority

AC Transit Grand MacArthur
Bus Rapid Transit

City of Alameda to Fruitvale
BARI’ Bus Rapid Transit

AC Transit Telegraph Ave/ East 14th/
International Blvd Project

Not Shown:

-	Affordable Transit for Seniors and Persons with Disabilities

-	Innovative grants including an affordable youth transit pass program
-Transit Operations, Maintenance and Safety Investments

2014 Alameda County Transportation Expenditure Plan

BART EXTENSION AND SYSTEM
IMPROVEMENTS ($710 M)

The capital projects funded as part of the BART
System Modernization and Expansion investments
include projects that increase the capacity and utility
of the existing system, as well as provide local
funding for a proposed BART extension in the
eastern part of the county.

BART to Livermore ($400 M)

This project funds the first phase of a BART
Extension within the 1-580 Corridor freeway
alignment to the vicinity of the I-580/Isabel Avenue
interchange using the most effective and efficient
technology. Funds for construction for any element of
this first phase project shall not be used until full
funding commitments are identified and approved,
and a project-specific environmental clearance is
obtained. The project-specific environmental process
will include a detailed alternative assessment of all
fundable and feasible alternatives, and be consistent
with mandates, policies and guidance of federal,
state, and regional agencies that have jurisdiction
over the environmental and project development
process.

BART Station Upgrades and System
Improvements ($310 M)

BART projections indicate that its system will need to
carry over 700,000 daily riders by the end of this Plan
period. New riders will affect the capacity of existing
systems and stations, requiring focused capacity
enhancements to keep the system moving as
ridership increases occur.



• The Bay Fair Connector/BART METRO project
will receive $100 M in sales tax funds for the
Alameda County portion of this project which
will increase capacity and operational flexibility
systemwide. One goal of these improvements
will be to improve connections to jobs in the

southern part of the county and beyond as Santa
Clara County builds its own BART extension.

•	The BART Station Modernization and Capacity
Program will receive $90 M for improvements at
all BART stations in Alameda County,
addressing station site, building envelope,
escalator and elevator rehabilitation/replacement,
circulation and wayfinding, air conditioning,
lighting and ambient environment, station
reliability upgrades, and other station equipment
replacement/upgrades.

•	The Irvington BART Station will receive $120 M

to provide an infill station on the soon-to-open
Warm Springs extension south of the existing
Fremont Station, creating new accessibility to
BART in the southern part of the County.

18	|	2014	Alameda	County	Transportation	Expenditure	Plan

BART, BUS, SENIOR AND YOUTH TRANSIT

BART INVESTMENTS

[Albany

Pleasanton

Newark

► BART

OMBMM MtKMlCM^irC.esm

For illustrative purposes only

Livermore

o Bay Fair Connector / BART METRO

Ijl BART Extension to Livermore
(within the 1-580 corridor)

Irvington BART Station

Not Shown:

-	BART Station Modernization and
Capacity Improvements

-	Affordable Transit for Seniors and
People with Disabilities

2014 Alameda County Transportation Expenditure Plan |	19

MAJOR TRANSIT CORRIDOR AND
COMMUTER RAIL IMPROVEMENTS
($355 M)

Investments include maintenance and service
enhancements on existing rail lines and the
development of transportation investments serving
the Dumbarton Corridor Area. Funds will also be
allocated for preserving rail right of way for
transportation purposes, ensuring that service is
available for future generations. Finally, this funding
category acknowledges the importance of connecting
high speed rail to Alameda County and the Bay Area
and seeks to prioritize targeted investments to ensure
strong connections to this future service.

Dumbarton Corridor Area Transportation
Improvements ($120 M)

Dumbarton Corridor Area Transportation
Improvement projects will support express bus
services in the Dumbarton Corridor connecting
southern Alameda County and the Peninsula. The
projects will also support transit oriented
development and priority development areas, and
improve local streets and bicycle and pedestrian
infrastructure within the cities of Fremont, Newark
and Union City.

Union City Intermodal Station ($75 M)

This project funds the development of a new
intermodal station in Union City to serve BART,
Dumbarton Corridor services, Capitol Corridor, ACE
and local and regional bus passengers. The project
involves construction of a two-sided rail station and
bus transit facility, accessible to a 30-acre transit
oriented development site. Improvements will be
made to pedestrian and bicycle access, BART
parking, elevators, fare gates and other passenger
amenities.

Capitol Corridor Service Expansion ($40 M)

This project supports track improvements and train
car procurement which will enable the trains running
between Oakland and San Jose to increase daily
round trips, matching frequencies between
Sacramento and Oakland.

Railroad Corridor Right of Way Preservation and
Track Improvements ($110 M)

Funds allocated by this project may be used to
maintain and enhance existing railroad corridors for
regional rail as well as to preserve the rights of way
of rail corridors that could be used for other
transportation purposes, such as major trails.

Oakland Broadway Corridor Transit ($10 M)

This project will link neighborhoods to transit
stations along Broadway, Oakland's major transit
spine, providing a frequent and reliable connection
between the regional rail hub at Jack Tondon Square,
with Downtown Oakland, the Uptown Arts and
Entertainment District, and adjoining neighborhoods,
utilizing the most efficient and effective technology.

BART, BUS, SENIOR AND YOUTH TRANSIT

MAJOR TRANSIT CORRIDOR AND COMMUTER RAIL IMPROVEMENTS

Dublin

Castro

Pleasanton

Fremont

QmmEC©

BART and ACE

Mi*

For illiMtr»tiv#i purpose* only

O

O

e

o

Broadway Corridor Transit .........

Capitol Corridor Service Expansion
Union City Intermodal Station

Dumbarton Corridor Area Transportation Improvements

Not Shown:

- Railroad Corridor Right of Way Preservation and Track Improvements

2014 Alameda County Transportation Expenditure Plan

21

LOCAL STREETS MAINTENANCE AND SAFETY

A total of 30% of the net
revenue is dedicated to the
improvement of local streets.
These investments include
two major components: a
program that provides
funding for local jurisdictions
to maintain streets and a capital program that is
focused on improving the performance of major
commute routes and bridges throughout the
County, including enhancing seismic safety.

The Local Streets program in this Plan involves
shared responsibility - local cities and the
County will set their local priorities within a
framework that requires complete streets to
serve all users and types of transportation,
honors best practices and encourages agencies
to work together. More specifically, streets
expenditures will be designed to benefit all
modes of travel by improving safety,
accessibility, and convenience for all users of
the street right-of-way. The plan also focuses on
important commute corridors that carry the
majority of the driving public and cross city
boundaries, ensuring enhanced cooperation and
coordination between agencies.

LOCAL STREETS MAINTENANCE AND
SAFETY PROGRAM (20% OF NET
REVENUES, $1,548 M)

In recognition that local streets are the backbone of
our transportation system, this program provides
funds to local cities and Alameda County for
maintaining and improving local infrastructure.
Funds may be used for any local transportation need
based on local priorities, including street
maintenance, bicycle and pedestrian projects, bus
stops, and traffic calming. All projects implemented
with these funds will support a "complete streets
philosophy" where all types of transportation and
users are considered in the development of the local
street system. A minimum of 15% of all local streets
funds will be spent on project elements directly
benefitting bicyclists and pedestrians.

The Local Streets Maintenance and Safety program
provides funds directly to local jurisdictions to be

used on locally determined priorities. Twenty percent
of net revenues will be allocated to local cities and the
county based on a formula that includes population
and road miles for each jurisdiction, weighted
equally, consistent with the 2000 Measure B formula.
The formula will be revisited within the first five
years of the plan to ensure overall geographic equity
in the Plan. This program is intended to augment,
rather than replace, existing transportation funding.

MAJOR COMMUTE CORRIDORS, LOCAL
BRIDGE AND SEISMIC SAFETY
INVESTMENTS ($800 M) * •

Major commute routes, illustrated on the map on
page 26, serve a high percentage of the daily
commuters in Alameda County and the majority of
trips for other purposes. These roads are crucial for
the movement of goods to stores and consumers,
transit riders and motorists, and bicyclists and
pedestrians. Concentrating improvements in these
corridors will improve access and efficiencies,
increase safety and reduce congestion.

This program focuses funding on improvements to
major roads, bridges, freight improvements and
railroad grade separations or quiet zones. Examples
of commute corridors eligible for funding include,
but are not limited to, the following:

•	North County Major Roadways: Solano Avenue
Pavement resurfacing and beautification; San
Pablo Avenue Improvements; State Route
13/Ashby Avenue corridor; Marin Avenue local
road safety; Gilman railroad crossing; Park
Street, High Street and Fruitvale Bridge
replacements; Powell Street Bridge widening at
Christie; East 14th Street improvements and
Oakland Army Base transportation infrastructure
improvements.

•	Central County Major Roadways: Crow Canyon
Road safety improvements, San Leandro local
road resurfacing, Lewelling Road/Hesperian
Boulevard improvements and Tennyson Road
grade separation.

•	South County Major Roadways: East-west
connector in North Fremont and Union City,
I-680/I-880 cross connectors, Fremont Boulevard
improvements, upgrades to the relinquished
Route 84 in Fremont, Central Avenue

22

2014 Alameda County Transportation Expenditure Plan

LOCAL STREETS MAINTENANCE AND SAFETY

Overcrossing, Thornton Avenue widening.

Mo wry Avenue and Newark local streets.

•	East County Major Roadways: Greenville Road
widening, El Charro Road improvements,
Dougherty Road widening, Dublin Boulevard
widening and Bernal Bridge construction.

•	Countywide Freight Corridors: Outer Harbor
Intermodal Terminal at the Port of Oakland,

7th Street grade separation and roadway
improvement in Oakland, as well as truck routes
serving the Port of Oakland.

Projects will be developed by local agencies working
in cooperation with neighboring jurisdictions and
Alameda CTC to reduce congestion, remove
bottlenecks, improve safety, enhance operations, and
enhance alternatives to single occupant auto travel in
these corridors. Projects will be funded based on
project readiness, constructability, geographic equity,
and cost effectiveness as determined by
Alameda CTC working with local jurisdictions as
part of the Alameda CTC Capital Improvement
Program which is updated every two years.

2014 Alameda County Transportation Expenditure Plan |	23

LOCAL STREETS MAINTENANCE AND SAFETY

Not Shown:

- Local streets maintenance and
safety program funding
to cities and County

Livermore

For illustrative purposes only

Examples of Major Commute Corridor Improvements:

Solano Ave., San Pablo Ave., Ashby Ave., Marin Ave., Gilman Railroad
Crossing, Park St., High St., Fruitvale Bridge, Powell St. Bridge, East 14
and Oakland Army Base transportation improvements

North County:

Central County:

South County:

East County:

Countywide Freight Corridors: Truck routes serving the Port of Oakland, Outer Harbor

'— linal

Crow Canyon Kd., Hesperian Blvd., Lewelling Blvd., Tennyson Kd., and

San Leandro local streets

East-west connector, I-680/I-880 cross connectors, Fremont Blvd., Route 84 in
Fremont, Central Ave. Overcrossing, Thornton Ave., Mowry Ave., and
Newark local streets

Crccnville Rd., El Charro Rd., Dougherty Rd., Dublin Blvd., and Bernal Bridge

Truck routes serving the Port of Oakland, Outer
Intermodal Terminal and 7th St. Improvements

24

TRAFFIC RELIEF ON HIGHWAYS

□ The County’s aging highway
system requires safety,
access and gap closure
improvements to enhance
efficiencies and reduce
traffic on a largely built-out
system. Funding has been
allocated to each highway corridor in Alameda
County for needed improvements. Specific
projects have been identified based on project
readiness, local priority and the ability to
leverage current investments and funds. A
number of additional eligible projects have been
identified as candidates for corridor
improvements, which will be selected for funding
based on their contribution to the overall goals of
improving system reliability, maximizing
connectivity, improving the environment and
reducing congestion. Priority implementation of
specific investments and amounts will be
determined as part of the Capital Improvement
Program developed by Alameda CTC every two
years.

Most of the projects that have been identified for
funding are designed to improve the efficiency of
and access to existing investments and to close
gaps and remove bottlenecks.

A total of 9% of the net revenue is allocated to
the highway system, including 1%, or
approximately $77 M, allocated specifically to
goods movement and related projects.

1-80 CORRIDOR INVESTMENTS FROM
THE CONTRA COSTA COUNTY LINE TO
THE BAY BRIDGE ($76 M)

1-80 in the northern part of the County is the most
congested stretch of freeway in the Bay Area.
Investments in the interchanges on this route were
selected to relieve bottlenecks, improve safety and
improve conditions for cars, buses, trucks and
bicyclists and pedestrians. Key investments will be
made at the Ashby and Gilman interchanges in
Berkeley, which will improve conditions for all
modes in both Emeryville and Berkeley.

The 1-80 Gilman project will receive funding to
relieve a major bottleneck and safety problem at the I-
80 Gilman interchange. The project includes both a
major reconfiguration of the interchange and grade
separation of the roadway and the railroad crossing
which currently crosses Gilman at-grade impeding
traffic flow to and from the freeway. Improvements
will also be made for pedestrians and bicyclists
crossing this location and accessing recreational
opportunities west of the freeway, making this a true
multimodal improvement.

The Ashby Avenue corridor will receive funding to
fully reconstruct the Ashby Avenue Interchange by
eliminating the substandard eastbound on-ramp in
Berkeley's Aquatic Park. The interchange will be fully
accessible to vehicles traveling to and from
Emeryville and Berkeley and east and west on 1-80,
will reduce local traffic congestion in Berkeley and
Emeryville, and will improve bicycle and pedestrian
access. The project includes associated corridor
improvements on Ashby Avenue.

25

TRAFFIC RELIEF ON HIGHWAYS

Berkeley

1-580 Corridor
Improvement
Program

Dublin

Pleasanton

1-680 Corridor
Improvement
Program

remont

Newark

Not Shown:

- Freight and Economic Development Program

1-80 Corridor
Improvement
Program

Albany

Livermore

1-880 Corridor

Improvement

Program

San

Lorenzo

SR-84 Corridor

Improvement

Program

1-80 Corridor
Improvements include:

Gilman St. Interchange Improvements

Ashby Avc. Interchange Improvements

1-880 Corridor Improvements include:

OM> teMtM	tM

For illustratrvo purposes only

Broadway-Jackson Multimodal Transportation
and Circulation Improvements

Oak St. Interchange Improvements

23rd/29th Ave. Interchange Improvements

42nd St./High St. Interchange Improvements

Northbound High Occupancy Vehicle and High
Occupancy Toll Extension from A St. to I Iegenberger

Winton Ave. Interchange Improvements

Industrial Pkwy. Interchange Improvements

Whipple Rd. Interchange Improvements

Rte 262 (Mission) Improvements and Grade
Separation

1-580 Corridor Improvements include:

I-580/I-680 Interchange Improvements
Isabel Ave. Interchange Improvements
Greenville Rd. Interchange Improvements
Vasco Rd. Interchange Improvements

1-680 Corridor Improvements include:

High Occupancy Vehicle and High Occupancy Toll
Lane from SR-237 to Alcosta (both directions)

SR-84 Corridor Improvements include:

5R-84 Expressway (Pigeon Pass to Jack London)
SR-84/1-680 Interchange and SR-84 Widening

26	|	2014	Alameda	County	Transportation	Expenditure	Plan

TRAFFIC RELIEF ON HIGHWAYS

STATE ROUTE 84 FROM 1-580 TO 1-680
($132 M)

Two significant improvements are planned for this
corridor to complete improvements at the State Route
(SR) 84 and 1-680 interchange and widening SR 84 to
support safety, connectivity and efficiency.

1-580 CORRIDOR INVESTMENTS FROM
DUBLIN TO SAN JOAQUIN COUNTY LINE
($48 M)

Investments in the 1-580 corridor include
improvements to the I-580/I-680 Interchange to
provide traffic relief on one of the most significant
bottlenecks on the freeway system. Additional
funding is for interchange improvements in both East
and Central County, including improvements at
Vasco Road, Greenville Road and Isabel Avenue,
which are needed for major transit investments in the
Livermore area, as well as interchange improvements
in Central County, focusing on bottleneck relief and
safety improvements.

1-680 FROM CONTRA COSTA COUNTY
LINE TO THE SANTA CLARA COUNTY
LINE ($60 M)

Implementation of the 1-680 high occupancy
vehicle/toll (HOV/HOT) lane in both directions from
SR 237 to Alcosta Boulevard is the centerpiece of the
improvements planned for this heavily traveled
corridor. This project will receive $60 M to construct
carpool/HOT lanes on 1-680 between Alcosta
Boulevard and SR 237 in both directions.

1-880 CORRIDOR INVESTMENTS FROM
OAKLAND TO UNION CITY ($284 M)

1-880 corridor improvements include projects to
upgrade and improve key interchanges throughout
the corridor beginning with the Broadway/Jackson
interchange and Oak Street interchange in Oakland
and Alameda to the Whipple/Industrial Parkway
Southwest interchange in Hayward and to the
County line. Many other interchange projects are also
candidates for funding to relieve congestion and
improve safety.

Funds are included for 1-880 Broadway-Jackson
multimodal transportation and circulation
improvements for Alameda Point, Oakland
Chinatown, Downtown Oakland, and Jack
London Square.

2014 Alameda County Transportation Expenditure Plan

27

TRAFFIC RELIEF ON HIGHWAYS

Funds for interchange improvements at Whipple
Road and Industrial Parkway in the Central part of
the County are also included, as well as making other
improvements on 1-880. The goals of these
improvements are to remove bottlenecks and
enhance safety at these critical interchanges, serving
motorists, other road users, and goods movement in
Central and Southern Alameda County.

In addition, funding will support completion of the
HOV/HOT carpool lanes on 1-880 from A Street in
Hayward to Hegenberger Road in Oakland, filling in
this important gap in the HOV lane system.

Additional funding on 1-880 includes a number of
critical access and interchange improvements in the
north and central parts of the county including grade
separations, bridge improvements and interchange
enhancements.

FREIGHT AND ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (1% OF NET
REVENUE, $77 M) * •

These discretionary funds will be administered by
Alameda CTC for the purposes of developing
innovative approaches to moving goods in a safe and
healthy environment in support of a robust economy.
Eligible expenditures in this category include
planning, development and implementation of
projects that:

•	Enhance the safe transport of freight by truck or
rail in Alameda County, including projects that
reduce conflicts between freight movement and
other types of transportation.

•	Reduce greenhouse gas production in the
transport of goods.

•	Mitigate environmental impacts of freight
movement on residential neighborhoods.

•	Enhance coordination between the Port of
Oakland, the Oakland Airport and local
jurisdictions for the purposes of improving the
efficiency, safety, and environmental and noise
impacts of freight operations while promoting a
vibrant economy.

These funds will be distributed by Alameda CTC to
eligible public agencies within Alameda County,
including local jurisdictions such as cities,

Alameda County, the Port of Oakland and the
Oakland Airport.

28

2014 Alameda County Transportation Expenditure Plan

BICYCLE AND PEDESTRIAN PATHS AND SAFETY

Key investments in bicycle
and pedestrian paths and
safety include completion of
the major trails in the
County. Funding will allow
for the completion of three
key trails: the County’s East
Bay Greenway, which provides a viable
commute and community access route for many
cyclists and pedestrians from Oakland to
Fremont, and the Bay Trail and Iron Horse Trail
in Alameda County which provide important off
street routes for both commute and recreational
trips. Funding for priority projects in local and
countywide Bicycle and Pedestrian plans will
also allow for investments that support the use
of these modes.

A total of 8% of the funds available in this plan
are devoted to improving bicycle and pedestrian
infrastructure as well as providing programs to
encourage people to bike and walk when
possible and to support accessibility for seniors
and people with disabilities. It is important to
note that in addition to these dedicated funds,
local bicycle and pedestrian projects will also be
funded through the Local Streets Maintenance
and Safety and Community Development
Investments funding categories.

COMPLETION OF MAJOR TRAILS - IRON
HORSE TRAIL, BAY TRAIL AND EAST
BAY GREENWAY ($264 M)

This project provides for increased pedestrian and
bicycle transportation options, more open space, and
improved public safety in neighborhoods on these
three major trails pictured on page 32. These projects
have the potential to generate extensive and varied
community benefits beyond creating infrastructure
for bicycle and pedestrian travel including improving
neighborhood connectivity, improving access to
transit, reducing traffic, improving safe access to
schools, supporting community health and reducing
greenhouse gas emissions. Funds may be applied to
the construction and maintenance of the three major
trails, as well as local connectors and access routes.

LOCAL BICYCLE AND PEDESTRIAN
PATHS AND SAFETY (5% OF NET
REVENUE, $387 M)

This program is designed to fund projects and
provide operating funds that expand and enhance
bicycle and pedestrian safety and facilities in
Alameda County, focusing on projects that complete
the County's bicycle and pedestrian infrastructure
system. The program consists of two components:

Bicycle and Pedestrian Direct Allocations to Cities
and Alameda County (3% of net revenue,
estimated at $232 M)

Funding will be provided on a monthly basis to the
cities and to Alameda County for planning,
construction and maintenance of bicycle and
pedestrian projects and programs, focusing on
completing the high-priority projects described in
their Bicycle and Pedestrian Master Plans. Funds will
be provided to each city within the county and to
Alameda County based on their share of the
population. Jurisdictions will be expected to
implement, operate and maintain projects from the
County's bicycle and pedestrian plans and to commit
to a complete streets philosophy in their project
design and implementation.

Bike and Pedestrian Grant Program (2% of net
revenue, estimated at $154 M)

These funds, administered by Alameda CTC, will be
available for the purposes of implementing and
maintaining regional bicycle and pedestrian facilities
and increasing safe bicycling. These funds will be
periodically distributed by Alameda CTC for projects
and programs that:

2014 Alameda County Transportation Expenditure Plan

29

BICYCLE AND PEDESTRIAN PATHS AND SAFETY

•	Provide bicycle education and training

•	Increase the number of trips made by bicycle and
on foot

•	Improve coordination between jurisdictions

•	Maintain existing trails

•	Implement major elements of the Alameda
County Bicycle Master Plan and Pedestrian
Master Plan

•	Implement bicycle and pedestrian elements of
Community Based Transportation Plans

•	Support Safe Routes to Schools

•	Support school crossing guards

•	Provide bicycle and pedestrian infrastructure
within and connecting to developments in
priority development areas

•	Leverage other sources of funding

Funds in this category will be used for a Countywide

Bicycle and Pedestrian Coordinator position.

30

2014 Alameda County Transportation Expenditure Plan

BICYCLE AND PEDESTRIAN PATHS AND SAFETY

o—	o-—	o—

East Bay Greenway	Bay Trail Gap Closure	Iron Horse Trail Gap Closure

from Oakland to Fremont	and Access projects	and Access projects

Not Shown:

-	Completion of other priority projects in local and county wide bicycle and pedestrian plans

-	Funding to cities and County

-	Grant program for regional projects and trail maintenance.

2014 Alameda County Transportation Expenditure Plan |	31

COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT INVESTMENTS

Investments in sustainable
transportation that improve
transit connections to jobs
and schools recognize the
need to plan our
transportation system along
with the land uses that are
going to serve the growing demand for housing
and jobs in Alameda County. A total of 4% of net
revenue or about $300 M is dedicated to
improvements that link our transportation
infrastructure with areas identified for new
development. One percent of net revenue, or
about $77 M, is dedicated to investments in new
technology, innovation and development.

COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
INVESTMENTS ($300 M)

These investments target immediate term
opportunities for enhancing access, improving safety
and creating new infrastructure and supporting
construction at BART stations, as well as station area
development and transit oriented development at
sites identified for early implementation throughout
the County. Funds in this category may be spent on
project development, design, and environmental
clearance, as well as construction, operations and
maintenance of new infrastructure in these areas.
Funds may also be allocated to operate shuttles that
serve Alameda County residents and local
businesses. Priority implementation of specific
investments and amounts will be determined as part
of the Capital Improvement Program developed by
Alameda CTC every two years. Examples of eligible
station areas to be included in this category are:

North County Station Areas and Priority
Development Areas

•	Broadway Valdez Priority Development Area
(PDA)

•	Coliseum BART Station Enhancements

•	Lake Merritt BART Station and Area
Improvements

•	Ashby BART Station Area

•	Berkeley Downtown Station Area

Central County Station Areas and Priority
Development Areas

•	Downtown San Leandro Transit Oriented
Development (TOD)

•	Bay Fair BART Transit Village

•	San Leandro City Streetscape Project

•	South Hayward BART Station Area

South County Station Areas and Priority
Development Areas

•	BART Warm Springs Westside Access
Improvements

•	Fremont Boulevard Streetscape Project

•	Union City Intermodal Infrastructure
Improvements

•	Dumbarton TOD Infrastructure improvements

East County Station Areas

•	West Dublin BART Station and Area
Improvements

•	Downtown Dublin TOD

•	East Dublin / Pleasanton BART Station and Area
Improvements

•	West Oakland BART Station Area

•	Eastmont Mall PDA

•	19th Street BART Station Area

•	MacArthur BART Station Area

32	|	2014	Alameda	County	Transportation	Expenditure	Plan

COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT INVESTMENTS

Dublin]



■ttlt'vl

NORTH

Berkeley Downtown Station Area

Ashby BART Station Area

MacArthur BART Station Area

Broadway Valdez PDA

19th St BART Station Area

West Oakland BART Station Area

Lake Merritt BART Station and Area
Improvements

Eastmont Mall PDA

Coliseum BART Station Enhancements



BART

CENTRAL

Downtown San Leandro TOD
San Leandro City Streetscape
Bay Fair BART Transit Village
South Hayward BART Station Area

SOUTH

Union City Intermodal Infrastructure
Improvements

Miles

Dm* SoL«e*t Al«n*da County. BART, ESRI

For illustrative purposes only

EAST

West Dublin BART Station and Area Improvements

Downtown Dublin TOD

East Dublin/Pleasanton BART Station and Area
Improvements

Fremont Boulevard Streetscape
BART Warm Springs West Side Access Improvements
Dumbarton TOD Infrastructure Improvements

Not Shown:

- Technology, Innovation, and Development Program

The locations drawn on this map are general
locations of eligible types of investments

2014 Alameda County Transportation Expenditure Plan

33

COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT INVESTMENTS

INVESTMENTS IN NEW TECHNOLOGY,
INNOVATION AND DEVELOPMENT (1%
OF NET REVENUE, $77 M)

These discretionary funds are designed to be
administered by Alameda CTC to develop innovative
approaches to meet the County's transportation
vision, emphasizing the use of new and emerging
technologies to better manage the transportation
system. Eligible expenditures in this category include
planning, development, implementation and
maintenance of technology to:

•	Increase utilization of non-auto types of
transportation or to increase the occupancy of
autos with the goal of reducing congestion, air
pollution and greenhouse gas production.

•	Reduce transportation-related greenhouse gases
through the utilization of a cleaner vehicle fleet
including alternative fuels and/or locally
produced energy.

•	Use demand management strategies designed to
reduce congestion, increase use of non-auto
transportation, manage existing infrastructure
and reduce greenhouse gas emissions.

•	Inform consumers of their transportation choices
and improve the efficiency or effectiveness of the
County's transportation system.

•	Manage parking supply to improve availability,
utilization and to reduce congestion and
greenhouse gas production.

•	Support environmental mitigation for
transportation projects including land banking.

These funds will be distributed periodically by
Alameda CTC to eligible public agencies within
Alameda County.

34

2014 Alameda County Transportation Expenditure Plan

Implementation of this sales tax is authorized under
the Local Transportation Authority and Improvement
Act, California Public Utilities Code Section 180000 et
seq. In enacting this ordinance, voters will authorize
Alameda CTC to have the responsibility to
administer the tax proceeds in accordance with all
applicable laws and with the Plan. Funds collected
for this tax may be spent only for the purposes
identified in the Plan, as it may be amended as
described in the implementation guidelines. Under
no circumstances may the proceeds of this
transportation sales tax be applied to any purpose
other than for transportation improvements
benefitting Alameda County. Under no circumstances
may these funds be appropriated by the State of
California or any other governmental agency.

GOVERNING BODY AND
ADMINISTRATION

Alameda CTC is governed by a Commission
composed of 22 members, with the following
representation:

•	Representatives from each city in
Alameda County

•	All five Alameda County Supervisors

•	BART

•	AC Transit

The Commission is assisted by staff dedicated to
implementation and monitoring of sales tax projects
and programs. The total cost assigned for salaries and
benefits for administrative employees shall not
exceed 1% of the net revenues generated by the sales
tax. The total cost of administration of this tax,
including all rent, supplies, consulting services and
other overhead costs will not exceed 4% of the net
proceeds of the sales tax. Repayment of election
costs to put the measure on the ballot is included in
this Plan.

INDEPENDENT WATCHDOG COMMITTEE * •

The Independent Watchdog Committee will have the
responsibility of reviewing and overseeing all
expenditures of sales tax funds by Alameda CTC.

The Independent Watchdog Committee reports
directly to the public and has the following
responsibilities:

•	The Independent Watchdog Committee must
hold public hearings and issue reports, on at least
an annual basis, to inform Alameda County
residents about how the sales tax funds are being
spent. The hearings will be open to the public
and must be held in compliance with the Brown
Act, California's open meeting law, with
information announcing the hearings well-
publicized and posted in advance.

•	The Independent Watchdog Committee will have
full access to Alameda CTC's independent
auditor and will have the authority to request
and review specific information regarding use of
the sales tax funds and to comment on the
auditor's reports.

•	The Independent Watchdog Committee will
publish an independent annual report, including
any concerns the committee has about audits it
reviews. The report will be published in local
newspapers and will be made available to the
public in a variety of forums to ensure access to
this information.

Independent Watchdog Committee members are
private citizens who are not elected officials at any
level of government, nor public employees from
agencies that either oversee or benefit from the
proceeds of the sales tax. Membership is limited to
individuals who live in Alameda County. Members
are required to submit a statement of financial
disclosure annually, and membership is restricted to
individuals with no economic interest in any of
Alameda CTC's projects or programs.

2014 Alameda County Transportation Expenditure Plan

35

GOVERNING BODY AND ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE

The Independent Watchdog Committee is designed
to reflect the diversity of Alameda County.
Membership is as follows:

•	Two members are chosen at-large from each of
the five supervisorial districts in the county (total
of 10 at-large members). One member is
nominated by each member of the Board of
Supervisors and one additional member in each
supervisorial district is selected by the Alameda
County Mayors' Conference.

•	Seven members are selected to reflect a balance
of viewpoints across the county. These members
are nominated by their respective organizations,
and each has one representative:

o League of Women's Voters

o Alameda County Taxpayer's Association

o Sierra Club

o Alameda County Labor Council

o East Bay Economic Development Alliance

o Alameda County Paratransit Advisory and
Planning Committee (PAPCO)

o East Bay Bicycle Coalition

The members of the Independent Watchdog
Committee are expected to provide a balance of
viewpoints, geography, age, gender, ethnicity and
income status, to represent the different perspectives
of the residents of the county. The Independent
Watchdog Committee is the same committee as the
Citizens Watchdog Committee, as defined in the
2000 Plan.

ADVISORY COMMITTEES

Alameda CTC is assisted by the advice of technical
and public advisory committees. These committees,
described below, meet regularly and are charged
with carrying out important functions on behalf of
Alameda CTC.

Alameda County Technical Advisory Committee
(ACTAC)

ACTAC is the technical advisory committee to
Alameda CTC made up of representatives from
Alameda County jurisdictions. ACTAC members

provide technical expertise, analysis and
recommendations related to transportation planning,
programming and funding with the Alameda CTC
Executive Director functioning as Chair.

Paratransit Advisory and Planning Committee
(PAPCO)

PAPCO addresses funding, planning, and
coordination issues regarding specialized
transportation services for seniors and persons with
disabilities in Alameda County. PAPCO has the
responsibility of making direct recommendations to
the Alameda CTC Commission on funding
transportation services for seniors and people with
disabilities. PAPCO is supported by a Technical
Advisory Committee comprised of paratransit
providers in Alameda County funded by local
transportation sales tax funds.

Bicycle and Pedestrian Advisory Committee
(BPAC)

BPAC reviews and provides input on updates to the
Alameda Countywide Pedestrian and Bicycle Plans
and makes recommendations to Alameda CTC. The
BPAC also provides input on countywide educational
and promotional programs and other projects of
countywide significance.

Other Committees

Alameda CTC may establish other community and
technical advisory committees as necessary to
implement the projects and programs in the Plan and
to inform and educate the public on the use of funds
for projects and programs in the Plan.

36	|	2014	Alameda	County	Transportation	Expenditure	Plan

IMPLEMENTING

GUIDELINES

This Transportation Expenditure Plan (Plan) is
guided by principles that ensure that the revenue
generated by the sales tax is spent only for the
purposes outlined in this Plan, in the most efficient
and effective manner possible, consistent with
serving the transportation needs of Alameda County.

DURATION OF THE PLAN

The duration of the Plan will be 30 years from
April 2015 through March 31, 2045.

ADMINISTRATION OF THE PLAN

1.	Funds only Projects and Programs in the Plan:

Funds collected under this measure may be
spent only for the purposes identified in the
Plan, as it may be amended by the
Alameda CTC governing body.

2.	All Decisions Made in Public Process:

Alameda CTC is given the fiduciary duty of
administering the transportation sales tax
proceeds in accordance with all applicable laws
and with the Plan. Activities of the
Alameda CTC Commission will be conducted
in public according to state law, through
publicly noticed meetings. The annual budgets
of Alameda CTC, strategic plans and annual
reports will all be prepared for public review.
The interests of the public will be further
protected by an Independent Watchdog
Committee, described previously in this Plan.

3.	Salary and Administration Cost Caps:

Alameda CTC will have the authority to hire
professional staff and consultants to deliver the
projects and programs included in this Plan in
the most efficient and cost-effective manner.
The salaries and benefits for administrative
staff hired by Alameda CTC for this tax will
not exceed 1% of the net proceeds of the
sales tax.

The total of all administrative costs for this tax
including overhead costs such as rent and
supplies will be limited to no more than 4% of
the net proceeds of this sales tax.

The allocated cost of Alameda CTC staff who
directly implement specific projects or
programs are not included in administrative
costs.

4.	Amendments Require 2/3 Support: To modify
and amend this Plan, an amendment must be
adopted by a two-thirds vote of the
Alameda CTC Commissioners. All jurisdictions
within the county will be given a minimum of
45 days to comment on any proposed Plan
amendment.

5 . Augment Transportation Funds: Pursuant to
California Public Utilities Code 180001 (e), it is
the intent of this Plan that funds generated by
the transportation sales tax be used to
supplement and not replace existing local
revenues used for transportation purposes.

TAXPAYER SAFEGUARDS, AUDITS AND
ACCOUNTABILITY

Accountability is of utmost importance in delivering
public investments with public dollars. Alameda CTC
is committed to transparency and accountability as a
public agency along with its many jurisdictional
partners. Many safeguards are built into this measure
to ensure voter accountability in expenditure
of funds.

6. Annual Audits and Independent Watchdog
Committee Review: Alameda CTC's financial
reports are subject to an independent audit by
a Certified Public Accountant (CPA) firm, on
an annual basis. Expenditures are also subject
to an annual review by an Independent
Watchdog Committee.

2014 Alameda County Transportation Expenditure Plan

37

IMPLEMENTING GUIDELINES

The Independent Watchdog Committee will
prepare an annual report on spending and
progress in implementing the Plan that will be
published and distributed throughout
Alameda County. On a periodic basis, the
Independent Watchdog Committee will review
the performance and benefit of projects and
programs based on performance criteria
established by Alameda CTC as appropriate.

7.	Performance and Cost-Effectiveness: To

maximize transportation investments in the
Plan, Alameda CTC will evaluate performance
and cost-effectiveness of programs and
projects, as they are being implemented.

8.	Strict Project Deadlines: To ensure that the
projects promised in this plan can be
completed in a timely manner, each project will
be given a period of seven years from the first
year of revenue collection (up to December 31,
2022) to receive environmental clearance
approvals and to have a full funding plan for
each project. Project sponsors may appeal to
the Alameda CTC Commissioners for one-year
time extensions.

9.	Timely Use of Funds: Jurisdictions receiving
funds for transit operations, ongoing street
maintenance, services for seniors and people
with disabilities, and bicycle and pedestrian
safety projects and programs must expend the
funds expeditiously and report annually on the
expenditure, their benefits and future planned
expenditures. These reports will be made
available to the public at the beginning of each
calendar year.

10.	Annual Budget and Strategic Plan: Each year,
Alameda CTC will adopt an annual budget
that projects expected sales tax receipts, other
anticipated revenues and planned
expenditures for administration, programs and
projects. Alameda CTC will also prepare a
strategic plan which will identify the priority
for projects and dates for project
implementation based on project readiness,
ability to generate leveraged funds and other
relevant criteria. Both the budget and the
strategic plan will be adopted at a public
meeting of the Alameda CTC Commissioners.

11.	Commitments from Fund Recipients: All

recipients of funds allocated in this
expenditure plan will be required to sign a
Master Funding Agreement, which details
their roles and responsibilities in spending
sales tax funds and includes local hiring
requirements. Funding agreements will
include performance and accountability
measures. All funds will be allocated through
open and transparent public processes. In
addition, fund recipients will be required to
have an annual audit conducted by an
independent CPA to ensure that funds are
managed and spent according to the
requirements of this Plan.

12.	Capital Improvement Program Updates:

Project descriptions will be detailed and fully
defined for inclusion in the Alameda CTC
Capital Improvement Program which will be
updated every two years and will provide for
geographic equity in overall funding
allocations. All allocations will be made
through a public process.

13.	Geographic Equity: Funding formulas for all
programs will be revisited within the first five
years of the Plan implementation to ensure
overall geographic equity based on population
and/or other equity factors. Funding for capital
projects will be evaluated through the biennial
capital improvement planning process which
will include an evaluation of geographic equity
by planning area.

RESTRICTIONS ON FUNDS

14.	No Expenditures Outside of Alameda
County: Under no circumstances may the
proceeds of this transportation sales tax be
applied to any purpose other than for
transportation improvements benefitting
Alameda County. Under no circumstances may
these funds be appropriated by the State of
California or any other governmental agency,
as defined in the implementation guidelines.

15.	Environmental and Equity Reviews: All

projects funded by sales tax proceeds are
subject to laws and regulations of federal, state
and local government, including but not
limited to the requirements of the California
Environmental Quality Act (CEQA), and

38

2014 Alameda County Transportation Expenditure Plan

IMPLEMENTING GUIDELINES

Title VI of the Civil Rights Act, as applicable.
All projects and programs funded in this Plan
will be required to conform to the
requirements of these regulations, as
applicable. All projects that go through
environmental review analyses will select the
most efficient and effective project alternative
and technology for implementation to meet the
objective of the project, and will have clearly
defined project descriptions, limits and
locations as a result of the environmental
process.

16.	Complete Streets: It is the policy of
Alameda CTC that all transportation
investment decisions shall consider the needs
of all types of transportation and all users. All
investments will conform to Complete Streets
requirements and Alameda County guidelines
to ensure that all transportation types and
users are considered in the expenditure of
funds so that there are appropriate investments
that fit the function and context of facilities that
will be constructed.

17.	Local Contracting and Good Jobs:

Alameda CTC will develop a policy supporting
the hiring of local contractors, businesses and
residents from Alameda County as applicable
in the expenditure of these funds.

18.	New Agencies: New cities or new entities
(such as new transit agencies) that come into
existence in Alameda County during the life of
the Plan may be considered as eligible
recipients of funds through a Plan amendment.

PROJECT FINANCING GUIDELINES AND
MANAGING REVENUE FLUCTUATIONS

19.	Fiduciary Duty: By augmenting and extending
the transportation sales tax, Alameda CTC is
given the fiduciary duty of administering the
proceeds of this tax for the benefit of the
residents and businesses of Alameda County.
Funds may be accumulated by Alameda CTC
or by recipient agencies over a period of time
to pay for larger and longer-term projects
pursuant to the policies adopted by
Alameda CTC. All interest income generated
by these proceeds will be used for the purposes

outlined in this Plan and will be subject to
audits.

20.	Project and Program Financing: Alameda CTC
will have the authority to bond for the
purposes of expediting the delivery of
transportation projects and programs. The
bonds will be repaid with the proceeds of this
sales tax. The costs associated with bonding,
including interest payments, will be borne only
by the capital projects or any programs
included in the Plan that utilize bond proceeds.
The costs and risks associated with bonding
will be presented in Alameda CTCs strategic
plan and will be subject to public comment
before any bond sale is approved.

21.	Programming of Funds: Actual revenues may,
at times, be higher than expected in this Plan
due to changes in receipts and additional funds
may become available due to increased
opportunities for leveraging or project costs
less than expected. Revenue may be lower than
expected as the economy fluctuates. Estimates
of actual revenue will be calculated annually
by Alameda CTC during its annual budget
process. Any excess revenue will be
programmed in a manner that will accelerate
the implementation of the projects and
programs described in this Plan, at the
direction of the Alameda CTC Commission.

22.	Fund Allocations: Should a planned project
become undeliverable, infeasible or
unfundable due to circumstances unforeseen at
the time this Plan was created, or should a
project not require all funds programmed for
that project or have excess funding, funding for
that project will be reallocated to another
project or program of the same type, such as
Transit, Streets, Highways, Community
Development Investments, or Bicycle and
Pedestrian Safety, at the discretion of
Alameda CTC.

23.	Leveraging Funds: Leveraging or matching of
outside funding sources is strongly
encouraged. Any additional transportation
sales tax revenues made available through
their replacement by matching funds will be
spent based on the principles outlined for fund
allocations described above.

2014 Alameda County Transportation Expenditure Plan

39

	
PLAN APPROVALS	
The Alameda CTC Commissioners unanimously approved this Plan on January 23, 2014:	
COMMISSIONERS	COUNTY/CITIES/TRANSIT AGENCIES
Commission Chair, Supervisor Scott Haggerty	Alameda County District 1
Commission Vice Chair, Councilmember Rebecca Kaplan	City of Oakland
Supervisor Richard Valle	Alameda County District 2
Supervisor Wilma Chan	Alameda County District 3
Supervisor Nate Miley	Alameda County District 4
Supervisor Keith Carson	Alameda County District 5
Mayor Marie Gilmore	City of Alameda
Mayor Peggy Thomsen	City of Albany
Councilmember Laurie Capitelli	City of Berkeley
Mayor Tim Sbranti	City of Dublin
Vice Mayor Ruth Atkin	City of Emeryville
Mayor Bill Harrison	City of Fremont
Councilmember Marvin Peixoto	City of Hayward
Mayor John Marchand	City of Livermore
Councilmember Luis Treitas	City of Newark
Vice Mayor Larry Reid	City of Oakland
Mayor John Chiang	City of Piedmont
Mayor Jerry Thorne	City of Pleasanton
Councilmember Michael Gregory	City of San Leandro
Mayor Carol Dutra-Vernaci	City of Union City, Union City Transit
Director Elsa Ortiz	AC Transit
Director Thomas Blalock	BART

2014 Alameda County Transportation Expenditure Plan