Fremont Union High School District
Santa Clara County
Measure J - November 4, 2014

Election Results

Yes	35,415	71.37%

No	14,210	28.63%

Ballot Question

To renew its existing parcel tax without increasing the cost or
changing the structure of the proposal voters first approved in 2004,
shall the Fremont Union High School District continue to levy a $98
parcel tax for 6 more years beginning July 1, 2016 to protect the
math, science, English, foreign language, music and art classes
currently offered, maintain class sizes, retain high quality teachers
and staff and offer an exemption to individuals age 65 and over?

COUNTY COUNSEL'S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS
OF MEASURE J

A school district may levy a special tax upon approval by two-thirds of the
votes cast on a measure pursuant to section 4 of article XIIIA of the
California Constitution and sections 50075 et seq. of the California
Government Code.

The Board of Trustees (Board) for the Fremont Union High School District
(District) proposes Measure J, renewing an existing parcel tax first
enacted in 2004 and subsequently renewed in 2010, to continue to be
levied at $98 per parcel per year for an additional six years. If approved,
the parcel tax will commence on July 1, 2016 and expire on June 30,
2022.

The proposed tax exempts any parcel that is owned and occupied by a
person 65 years of age or older. It also exempts persons receiving
Supplemental Security Income for a disability, regardless of age.

State law requires the District to state the specific purposes for which the
tax proceeds will be used and only spend the proceeds of the tax for
these purposes. The stated purposes of the tax proposed by Measure J
are to provide financial support to local school programs according to
priorities established by the Board, including: (1) protecting teaching
positions; (2) avoiding increased class sizes; and (3) assuring that the
District’s high school students are prepared to successfully compete for
college and university admission.

The District is required by law to provide additional accountability
measures for the proceeds. These measures include: (1) depositing the
proceeds into a fund that is separate and apart from other District funds;
and (2) providing an annual written report to the Board detailing the
amount of funds collected and expended and the status of any project
authorized to be funded from the tax proceeds. The Board will, in addition,
establish an independent advisory committee of citizens to ensure that
proceeds from the tax are used only for the specific purposes authorized
by Measure J.

Measure J was placed on the ballot by the Board.

A "yes'' vote is a vote to approve a parcel tax of $98 per parcel on parcels
within the District for six years.

A "no" vote is a vote to not approve a parcel tax of $98 per parcel on
parcels within the District for six years.

Orry P. Korb
County Counsel

By: Isl Susan Swain

Lead Deputy County Counsel

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE J

FREMONT UNION HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT
KEEP OUR HIGH SCHOOLS EXCELLENT ACT OF 2014

This Proposition may be known and referred to as the "Fremont
Union High School District Keep Our High Schools Excellent Act of 2014”
or as "Measure J".

FINDINGS

All five high schools that comprise the Fremont Union High School
District-Cupertino, Fremont, Homestead, Lynbrook, and Monta Vista
High Schools—exceed State standards for student achievement and
have been recognized as California Distinguished Schools, sending 90%
of its enrolled students to college.

District growth and expenses have outpaced the anemic recovery
State education funding has experienced since the great recession.

The current Measure B parcel tax will expire in 2016 if not re-
approved, leaving critical educational programs at risk after the current
school year.

Continuation of the existing parcel tax for local high schools will help
preserve funding to protect excellent teaching, avoid increased class
sizes, and maintain academic programs.

By renewing the District's current parcel tax, local voters can ensure
that our schools will receive a stable, reliable, local source of funding.

TERMS AND PURPOSES

Upon approval of two-thirds of those voting on this Proposition, the
District shall be authorized to levy a qualified special tax (education parcel
tax) in the maximum annual amount equal to the current rate of $98 per
parcel of taxable real property in the District, for six years commencing
July 1,2016.

The education parcel tax authorized by this Act shall renew the
existing Measure B education parcel tax approved by the voters of the
District on May 4,2010 which expires by its own terms on June 30,2016.

Moneys raised under this Keep Our High Schools Excellent Act of
2014 shall be authorized to be used only to provide financial support to
local school programs in accordance with priorities established by the
Board of Trustees and to the extent of available funds, including to:

1.	to protect teaching positions

2.	to avoid increased class sizes

3.	to assure that the District's high school students are prepared
to successfully compete for college and university admission

and to provide other financial support to the extent of available funds to
maintain and support the District's academic programs, including the
purchase of instructional equipment, materials and supplies.

EXEMPTIONS-SENIOR CITIZENS:

RECIPIENTS OF SUPPLEMENTAL SECURITY INCOME

In order to provide tax relief to senior citizens in the community, any
parcel owned and occupied by a person 65 years of age or older shall be

N SC Ballot Type 126 - Page 22

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE J-Continued

exempt from the education parcel tax. Persons receiving Supplemental
Security Income for a disability, regardless of age, shall also be exempt.

Either exemption shall be available each year upon proper
application to the District pursuant to procedures described below and as
further prescribed by the Board of Trustees or otherwise as required by
law or by the Santa Clara County Tax Collector.

ACCOUNTABILITY PROVISIONS

Independent Citizens' Oversight Committee. The Board of Trustees
shall establish an independent Citizens' Oversight Committee (which may
be the existing Measure B oversight committee) to ensure that moneys
raised under this Keep Our High Schools Excellent Act of 2014 are spent
wisely and only for the purposes named in this Proposition. The Board
of Trustees shall provide by resolution for the composition, duties, funding
and other necessary information regarding the Committee's formation
and operation.

Independent Annual Audit. Upon the levy and collection of the
education parcel tax, the Board of Trustees shall cause an account to be
established for deposit of the proceeds, pursuant to Government Code
Section 50075.1. For so long as any proceeds remain unexpended, the
Superintendent of the District shall cause an independent financial
auditor to prepare a report to be filed with the Board of Trustees no later
than December 31 of each year, commencing December 31, 2016,
stating (1) the amount collected and expended in such year, and (2) the
status of any projects or description of any programs funded. The report
may relate to the calendar year, fiscal year, or other appropriate annual
period, as the Superintendent shall determine, and may be incorporated
into or filed with the annual budget, audit, or other appropriate routine
report to the Board of Trustees.

Specific Purposes. All of the purposes named in this Proposition
shall constitute the specific purposes of the education parcel tax, and
proceeds thereof shall be applied only for such purposes.

LEVY AND COLLECTION

The education parcel tax shall be collected by the Santa Clara
County Tax Collector at the same time and in the same manner and shall
be subject to the same penalties as ad valorem property taxes collected
by the Tax Collector. Unpaid taxes shall bear interest at the same rate
as the rate for unpaid ad valorem property taxes until paid.

"Parcel of taxable real property" shall be defined as any unit of real
property in the District which receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem
property taxes from the Santa Clara County Tax Collector. "Parcel of
taxable real property" shall exclude all parcels which are otherwise
exempt from or on which are levied no ad valorem property taxes in any
year, and all parcels which have qualified for either the Senior Citizen
Exemption or the Supplemental Security Recipient Exemption provided
by this Proposition in any year.

The District shall annually provide a list of parcels to the Santa Clara
County Tax Collector which the District has approved for an exemption in
accordance with this Proposition. Eligibility for either exemption shall be
determined solely by the District, and any taxpayer wishing to challenge
the District's determination, or claim a refund or reimbursement of taxes
paid while eligible for an exemption, shall apply directly to the District.

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE J-Continued

The Santa Clara County Assessor's determination of exemption or
relief for any reason of any parcel from taxation, other than through the
Senior Citizen Exemption or the Supplemental Security Recipient
Exemption, shall be final and binding for the purposes of the education
parcel tax. Taxpayers wishing to challenge the County Assessor's
determination must do so under the procedures for correcting a
misclassification of property pursuant to Part 9 of Division 1 of the
California Revenue and Taxation Code or other applicable procedures.
Taxpayers seeking a refund of any tax paid shall follow the procedures
applicable to property tax refunds pursuant to the California Revenue and
Taxation Code.

SEVERABILITY

The Board of Trustees hereby declares, and the voters by approving
this Proposition concur, that every section, paragraph, sentence and
clause of this Proposition has independent value, and the Board of
Trustees and the voters would have adopted each provision hereof
regardless of every other provision hereof. Upon approval of this
Proposition by the voters, should any part be found by a court of
competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, all remaining parts
hereof shall remain in full force and effect to the fullest extent allowed by
law.

N SC Ballot Type 126 - Page 23

Approval of Measure J will renew a local school parcel tax first approved
by voters in 2004. Renewal will continue to provide the high schools in
the Fremont Union High School District, Cupertino, Fremont,
Homestead, Lynbrook and Monta Vista High Schools, with stable,
reliable funding that cannot be disrupted or seized by the state. Measure
J will not increase taxes.

Parcel tax funds have been used at all five of the District's comprehensive
high schools to:

•	Preserve core academic classes;

•	Provide students with access to college prep, honors and
advanced placement courses;

•	Work to retain highly qualified and experienced teachers and
staff; and

•	Prepare students to successfully compete for college and
university admission.

Renewal of Measure J is an investment in a high school district ranked
as the third highest performing in California.

There are serious consequences if we fail to renew this $98 parcel tax.
Without Measure J funds the District

•	will be forced to eliminate teaching positions

•	will become less competitive in its efforts to attract and retain
the best teachers available.

This will result in fewer course options for students including college prep,
advanced placement, and honors course as well as fewer electives such
as arts, music, and career technical education.

Learn more at www.JandK.org.

Public oversight will be careful and complete. The language of Measure
J requires that all expenditures be monitored by an Independent Citizens'
Oversight Committee and subject to an annual independent audit.

Measure J offers all senior citizens and the disabled a complete
exemption from the $98 annual cost.

Please join us and vote Yes on Measure J.

/s/Charlie Olson
Orchardist

/s/Dolly Sandoval
Former Cupertino Mayor

Isl Manuela Rodriguez
Longtime community supporter

Isl Michael Chang
Trustee, Santa Clara County Board of Education

/s/Sandi Spires
Parent Volunteer

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE J

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE J-Continued

It was just 4 short years ago that voters passed the current $98 per
parcel tax, which isn't set to expire until 2016.

For more information:

www.SVTaxpayers.org/2014-11-fremont-union-HSD-parcel-tax

So, why is Fremont Union High School District seeking early renewal of
this parcel tax?

Isl Mark W.A. Hinkle
President: Silicon Valley Taxpayers Association

In 2008, voters passed a $198,000,000 bond measure to "improve
energy efficiency." Where did the money go, from those energy
savings?

Isl Edward Leo Wimmers
Chair, Libertarian Party of Santa Clara County

The District is even asking to borrow $295,000,000! (Measure K on this
ballot)

Isl Brian S. Darby
District Resident

Now they're back, once again, asking for our approval to extend that 2010 ^ Steven B. Haug

parcel tax for another 6 years. The District always makes the same Treasurer, Silicon Valley Taxpayers Association
threats to try to scare us into voting for more debt and higher taxes.

This time, we should tell them NO.

Fremont Union High School District already pays teachers well above
average:

	District  Pay	Statewide  Average	Above average by...
Lowest Salary Offered	$50,104	$42,076	$8,028
BA+ 60	$78,069	$66,508	$11,561
Highest Salary Offered	$93,827	$85,748	$8,079
Average Paid	$75,518	$72,962	$2,556

(Source: Education Data Partnership, www.Ed-Data.K12.ca.us)

And when you consider that teachers work only 184 days a year,
compared to employees in the private sector, who work, on average, 240
days a year (not counting vacation and holidays), they are very well
compensated for their job.

Californians already suffer under a huge tax burden—so huge that it's
driving businesses and jobs to other states. In today's election, our
county's school districts (including Fremont Union High School District)
are asking forloans totaling $1,244,000,000. That's over a thousand
million dollars! And that's not counting parcel, sales, transit occupancy,
open space, and utility taxes that government agencies also want, today.

Tax-wise, we're suffering death by a thousand cuts.

Please vote NO on Measure J.

Like us, you can be for schools, for students, for teachers, and against
Measure J.

N SC Ballot Type 126 - Page 25

COUNTY COUNSEL'S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS
OF MEASURE J

A school district may levy a special tax upon approval by two-thirds of the
votes cast on a measure pursuant to section 4 of article XIIIA of the
California Constitution and sections 50075 et seq. of the California
Government Code.

The Board of Trustees (Board) for the Fremont Union High School District
(District) proposes Measure J, renewing an existing parcel tax first
enacted in 2004 and subsequently renewed in 2010, to continue to be
levied at $98 per parcel per year for an additional six years. If approved,
the parcel tax will commence on July 1, 2016 and expire on June 30,
2022.

The proposed tax exempts any parcel that is owned and occupied by a
person 65 years of age or older. It also exempts persons receiving
Supplemental Security Income for a disability, regardless of age.

State law requires the District to state the specific purposes for which the
tax proceeds will be used and only spend the proceeds of the tax for
these purposes. The stated purposes of the tax proposed by Measure J
are to provide financial support to local school programs according to
priorities established by the Board, including: (1) protecting teaching
positions; (2) avoiding increased class sizes; and (3) assuring that the
District’s high school students are prepared to successfully compete for
college and university admission.

The District is required by law to provide additional accountability
measures for the proceeds. These measures include: (1) depositing the
proceeds into a fund that is separate and apart from other District funds;
and (2) providing an annual written report to the Board detailing the
amount of funds collected and expended and the status of any project
authorized to be funded from the tax proceeds. The Board will, in addition,
establish an independent advisory committee of citizens to ensure that
proceeds from the tax are used only for the specific purposes authorized
by Measure J.

Measure J was placed on the ballot by the Board.

A ''yes" vote is a vote to approve a parcel tax of $98 per parcel on parcels
within the District for six years.

A "no" vote is a vote to not approve a parcel tax of $98 per parcel on
parcels within the District for six years.

Orry P. Korb
County Counsel

By: Isl Susan Swain

Lead Deputy County Counsel