Consolidated

Registrar of Voters

Polling Place Location
on Back Cover
Polls Ope

7:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.

Last Day

To Register To Vote

Quick • Easy • Convenient

Vote-By-Mail

October 6th - October 28th
Application on Back Cover

AVISO IMPORTANTE

Una traduccion en Espanol de
esta Boleta de Muestra y Folleto
de Informacion al Votante puede
obtenerse en la oficina del Registro de

Sample Ballot and Information Pamphlet

Votantes llamando al (951) 486-7200
o 1 (800) 773-VOTE (8683) o visite
nuestro sitio web www.voteinfo.net

COUNTY OF RIVERSIDE REGISTRAR OF VOTERS

2724 Gateway Drive • Riverside, CA 92507
951-486-7200 • 800-773-VOTE (8683) • TTY: 951-697-8966
www.voteinfo.net

SAMPLE BALLOT / BOLETA EJEMPLAR

48 INDIAN GAMING COMPACTS. REFERENDUM. A “Yes” vote approves, and a “No” vote rejects, tribal gaming compacts between the state and the North Fork v Rancheria of Mono Indians and the Wiyot Tribe. Fiscal Impact: One-time payments ($16 million to $35 million) and for 20 years annual payments ($10 million) from Indian tribes to state and local governments to address costs related to the operation of a new casino.  CONVENIOS DE JUEGOS DE AZAR INDfGENAS. REFERENDUM. Un voto “Sf” aprueba, y un voto “No” rechaza los convenios de juegos de azar indfgenas entre el estado y los Indios Mono de North Fork Rancheria y la Tribu Wiyot. Impacto fiscal: Pagos por unica vez ($16 millones a $35 millones) y pagos anuales durante 20 anos ($10 millones) de las tribus indfgenas al estado y los gobiernos locales para solventar los costos relacionados con la operation de un nuevo casino.		YES ^ —  si “ m  NO . — NO “ m
SCHOOL/ESCOLAR		
MT. SAN JACINTO COMMUNITY COLLEGE DISTRICT / DISTRITO UNIVERSITARIO COMUNITARIO DE MT. SAN JACINTO		
A A To exPancl colle9e buildings serving four-year university transfer, veterans’ education, and career training, by expanding career/support facilities for veterans/military, ensuring buildings are accessible for the disabled, upgrading nursing, emergency responder, criminal justice, vocational job training classrooms, updating science labs, electrical systems, technology infrastructure, acquiring, constructing, and repairing classrooms, facilities, sites/equipment, shall Mt. San Jacinto Community College District issue $295,000,000 in bonds at legal rates with annual financial audits, citizens’ oversight of funds, all funds remaining local?		
Para ampliar los edificios de la universidad para servir a la transferencia universitaria de cuatro anos, la education de los veteranos, y la formacion de profesionales, ampliar las instalaciones de carreras/apoyo para veteranos/militares, asegurar edificios que sean accesibles para los discapacitados, actualizar la enfermeria, la respuesta a emergencias, la justicia penal, las aulas de formacion trabajo vocacional, actualizar laboratories de ciencias, sistemas electricos, infraestructura de tecnologia, adquirir, construir y reparar aulas, instalaciones, sitios/equipo, ^debera Distrito Universitario Comunitario de Mt. San Jacinto emitir $295,000,000 en bonos a tasas legales, con auditorias financieras anuales, supervision ciudadana de los fondos, que todos los fondos permanezean localmente?	BONDS YES ^ — BONOS SI “ m	
	BONDS NO . _ BONOS NO “ m	
CITY/CIUDAD		
CITY OF BANNING / CIUDAD DE BANNING		
■ Shall an Ordinance be adopted establishing a general mining tax of 80 cents per ton upon the excavation and processing of rock material, and placing the proceeds of these taxes in the City’s general fund to be spent for general governmental purposes, which includes police, fire, and maintaining streets and public areas; as well as to pay for studying, correcting and reducing the effects of mining of residents and businesses?  ^Debera adoptarse una ordenanza que establezca un impuesto sobre la minerfa en general de 80 centavos por tonelada al excavar y procesar material de roca, y colocar el producto de estos impuestos en el fondo general de la Ciudad para ser desembolsado para fines gubernamentales generates, los cuales incluyen la policla, los bomberos, y el mantenimiento de calles y areas publicas; asi como para pagar para estudiar, corregir y reducir los efectos de la minerfa sobre los residentes y los negocios?		YES ^ —  si “ m  NO . — NO “ m

CA33-3-529

J3

<

GO

o

o

CD

SAMPLE BALLOT / BOLETA EJEMPLAR

MEASURE “AA” - MT. SAN JACINTO COMMUNITY COLLEGE DISTRICT

EXHIBIT B
FULL TEXT BALLOT PROPOSITION

MT. SAN JACINTO COMMUNITY COLLEGE DISTRICT
BOND MEASURE ELECTION NOVEMBER 4, 2014

MT. SAN JACINTO COLLEGE AFFORDABLE EDUCATION AND JOB TRAINING MEASURE. “To expand college buildings serving four-year
university transfer, veterans’ education, and career training, by expanding career/support facilities for veterans/military, ensuring buildings are
accessible for the disabled, upgrading nursing, emergency responder, criminal justice, vocational job training classrooms, updating science labs,
electrical systems, technology infrastructure, acquiring, constructing, and repairing classrooms, facilities, sites/equipment, shall Mt. San Jacinto
Community College District issue $295,000,000 in bonds at legal rates with annual financial audits, citizens’ oversight of funds, all funds remaining
local?”

Bonds - Yes

Bonds - No

PROJECTS

The Board of Trustees of the Mt. San Jacinto Community College District, to be responsive to the needs of its community, evaluated Mt. San
Jacinto College’s urgent and critical facility needs, and its capacity to provide students, active military and Veterans with support facilities, an
affordable education and prepare them for success in college and careers. Safety issues, enrollmentgrowth, class size reduction and class offerings,
and information and computer technology infrastructure were each considered, in developing the scope of projects to be funded, as outlined in the
District’s Master Facility Plan, incorporated herein by reference in its entirety (the “Master Plan”), and available for review on the District’s website
(www.msi.edul In developing the scope of projects, the faculty, staff, students and community have prioritized providing essential job training
and workforce preparation skills students need to succeed in today’s competitive job market, and ensuring buildings are accessible for the
disabled, and facilities available to support an affordable education, so that the most critical needs that will make the Mt. San Jacinto College an
effective place for learning, would be addressed. In the course of developing the Master Plan, public input was received from hundreds of constituents.
It was concluded that if these facility needs were not addressed now, the Mt. San Jacinto College would be unable to remain competitive in preparing
students for jobs in high demand industries and university transfer. The Board concluded that the longer they waited to repair and upgrade Mt. San
Jacinto College, the more expensive it would be. In implementing the Master Plan the Board of Trustees determines that Mt. San Jacinto
College MUST:

(i)	Expand career and SUPPORT FACILITIES FOR VETERANS and military personnel;

(ii)	Increase workforce preparation skills students need to succeed in today’s job market;

(iii)	Ensure BUILDINGS are ACCESSIBLE FOR THE DISABLED;

(iv)	Provide AFFORDABLE, LOW-COST, HIGH QUALITY EDUCATION in San Jacinto, Menifee Valley, San Gorgonio and

Temecula, needed to successfully transfer to four-year universities; and

(v)	Qualify the College for any available State matching funds; and

(vi)	Ensure that the College has the capacity and high quality classrooms and facilities to meet academic needs and

demands of its regional students; and

(vii)	Adhere to stringent FISCAL ACCOUNTABILITY safeguards including:

(a)	REQUIRE ANNUAL FINANCIAL AUDITS,

(b)	Require citizens’ oversight of all funds,

(c)	No funds will be used for administrators’ salaries and pensions,

(d)	ALL FUNDS WILL BE SUBJECT TO LOCAL CONTROL AND WILL REMAIN LOCAL IN MT. SAN JACINTO COLLEGE.

The Master Plan is available for review at the Superintendent/President’s office and at www.msi.edu. The following types of projects are
authorized to be undertaken at Mt. San Jacinto College facilities in Menifee, Temecula, San Jacinto, San Gorgonio, as well as at a to be constructed
technology campus in the Interstate 15 corridor:

Academic Facility and Technology Upgrade Projects to Help Students
and Veterans be Trained for Good Jobs

Goal and Purpose: Because it is extremely hard to get a job in today’s economy, Mt. San Jacinto College must provide the essential
job training and workforce preparation skills students need to succeed in to today’s highly competitive job market. This measure will
expand local education in nursing, science, technology, engineering and math to meet the needs of our local, regional employers and
help attract more high paying jobs and businesses to our region.

33-9008-M5

RV 319-016

Mt. San Jacinto College has served thousands of military veterans, many who have recently returned from war zones and face
challenges including post-traumatic stress disorder and permanent disabilities. The College is a national leader in helping returning
veterans reintegrate with their education and careers, and this measure will upgrade and expand veteran services and job training so
returning service members receive the support they need to complete their education and enter the civilian workforce.

Thus the District requires FUNDS that ARE LOCALLY CONTROLLED to improve academic facilities and technology implementations
which will allow them to continue providing ACCESS TO AFFORDABLE, HIGH QUALITY EDUCATION to local students, active military
and veterans, including:

•	Upgrade and expand facilities for career training in well-paying careers and transfer to universities.

•	Expand course opportunities to increase enrollment, classrooms and instructional facilities in nursing, emergency responder, criminal
justice, vocational job training classrooms, and other core academic classes.

•	Expand facilities for veterans to provide career training and support services to returning veterans seeking training or
retraining to reenter the workforce.

•	Upgrade outdated science, math and computer labs and expand College facilities providing instruction in Science, Technology,
Engineering and Math (STEM).

•	Install additional technology infrastructure to improve computer technology and Internet access.

•	Upgrade outdated job-training classrooms, labs and equipment to provide all students with opportunities to learn job skills.

•	Upgrade support facilities for currently active military personnel.

•	Upgrade and replace existing information technology infrastructure and network systems to improve efficiency and increase capacity.

•	Upgrade and expand telecommunications, Internet and network connections.

•	Upgrade and build academic buildings to expand classrooms for career training in science, medical, public safety and other in-demand
jobs.

•	Upgrade and replace technology, computers, hardware and systems used for job training and retraining programs.

Repair and Construction Projects to
Provide Greater Access to an Affordable Education

Goal and Purpose:	Since the cost of attending a public university has risen to as much as six (6) times that of attending Mt. San

Jacinto College, students rely on Mt. San Jacinto to save as much as $35,000 in tuition on their way to a four-year degree. Therefore,
keeping Mt. San Jacinto’s facilities upgraded will best serve all local students, military and veterans who can earn college credits,
certificates and job skills at a reasonable price:

•	ENSURE BUILDINGS ARE ACCESSIBLE FOR THE DISABLED.

•	Upgrade aging roofs, bathrooms and disabled accessibility, repair floors, walkways, lighting and electrical systems.

•	Construct more classroom space.

•	Remove asbestos.

•	Upgrade campus facilities to provide improved access, including road and parking upgrades to improve safety, access and traffic flow.

•	Improve heating, ventilation, insulation, doors, lighting, and windows to increase energy efficiency and save money.

•	Upgrade outdated electrical systems and wiring for computer technology and Internet access.

•	Renovate, repair or replace outdated laboratories, classrooms, training centers and support facilities.

•	Upgrade and replace classroom instructional equipment.

•	Improve student safety, emergency preparedness, and security systems, including lighting, fencing, smoke detectors, fire alarms and
sprinklers, gas and sewer lines.

* * *

FISCAL ACCOUNTABILITY

This bond measure has strict accountability requirements including (a) an independent Citizens’ Oversight Committee with representation
from throughout our region; (b) annual financial audits to make sure money is being spent as promised; (c) no money from this measure will go
towards salaries or pensions, and (d) all money will stay local and cannot be taken by Sacramento politicians.

I.	NO ADMINISTRATOR SALARIES. PROCEEDS FROM THE SALE OF THE BONDS AUTHORIZED BY THIS PROPOSITION SHALL
BE USED ONLY FOR THE ACQUISITION, CONSTRUCTION, RECONSTRUCTION, REHABILITATION, OR REPLACEMENT OF SCHOOL
FACILITIES, INCLUDING THE FURNISHING AND EQUIPPING OF SCHOOL FACILITIES, AND NOT FOR ANY OTHER PURPOSE, INCLUDING
TEACHER AND COLLEGE ADMINISTRATOR SALARIES, PENSIONS AND OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES.

33-9008-M6

RV 319-017

2.	FISCAL ACCOUNTABILITY. THE EXPENDITURE OF BOND MONEY ON THESE PROJECTS IS SUBJECT TO STRINGENT
FINANCIAL ACCOUNTABILITY REQUIREMENTS. BY LAW, PERFORMANCE AND FINANCIAL AUDITS WILL BE PERFORMED ANNUALLY,
AND ALL BOND EXPENDITURES WILL BE MONITORED BY A NINE-MEMBER INDEPENDENT CITIZENS’ OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE
TO ENSURE THAT FUNDS ARE SPENT AS PROMISED AND SPECIFIED. THE CITIZENS’ OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE MUST INCLUDE,
AMONG OTHERS, TWO REPRESENTATIVES OF A BONA FIDE TAXPAYERS ASSOCIATION, ONE REPRESENTATIVE OF A BUSINESS
ORGANIZATION AND ONE REPRESENTATIVE OF A SENIOR CITIZENS ORGANIZATION. NO DISTRICT EMPLOYEES OR VENDORS ARE
ALLOWED TO SERVE ON THE CITIZENS’ OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE.

3.	BOND ISSUANCE LIMITS.

(a)	No bonds shall be issued until the Board has established specific project priorities.

(b)	Bonds must be phased in over time so that project success can be determined before more bonds are issued.

(c)	Bonds must have a term not longer than the useful life of the project or equipment being financed.

(d)	The availability of State matching funds shall be considered in selecting projects.

(e)	Projects shall be evaluated, in part, on their availability to expand capacity for enrollment growth to better serve the community.

* * *

The listed projects will be completed as needed. Each project is assumed to include its share of furniture, equipment, architectural,
engineering, and similar planning costs, program/project management, staff training expenses and a customary contingency. In addition to the
listed projects stated above, authorized projects also include the acquisition of a variety of instructional, maintenance and operational equipment,
including the reduction or retirement of outstanding lease obligations and interim funding incurred to advance fund projects from payment of
the costs of preparation of all facility planning, facility studies, assessment reviews, facility master plan preparation and updates, environmental
studies (including environmental investigation, remediation and monitoring), design and construction documentation, and temporary housing of
dislocated college activities caused by construction projects. In addition to the projects listed above, repair, renovation and construction projects
may include, but not be limited to, some or all of the following: renovation of student and staff restrooms; replace aging electrical and plumbing
systems; repair and replacement of heating and ventilation systems; upgrade of facilities for energy efficiencies, including photovoltaic/solar
installations; repair and replacement of worn-out and leaky roofs, windows, walls doors and drinking fountains; removal of outdated buildings and
construction of new classrooms and support buildings; installation of wiring and electrical systems to safety accommodate computers, technology
and other electrical devices and needs; upgrade facilities to meet current earthquake safety standards; repair and replacement of fire alarms,
emergency communications and security systems; upgrading, resurfacing, replacing or relocating of hard courts, fields, turf and irrigation systems;
upgrade classrooms; build or upgrade facilities for math, physical sciences, fine arts, theatre arts, and horticulture; upgrade existing parking lots
garages; repair, upgrade and install interior and exterior lighting systems; replace water and sewer lines and other plumbing systems; construct,
upgrade or expand foreign language, humanities buildings, physical education/stadium/aquatic facilities, administrative offices, maintenance yard
warehouse/building, student service and instructional buildings, cultural arts center, science and technology building, library, business technology
center, campus police building, print shop, auto shop, athletic fields, student services building, Allied Health building, parking lots, turf; upgrade to
sustainable landscaping; improve water conservation and energy efficiency; replace elevators; replace outdated security systems; replace existing
window systems with energy-efficient systems to reduce costs; develop a new campus along the 1-15 corridor to serve additional students; improve
insulation, weatherproofing and roofs to reduce costs; improve access for the disabled; install and repair fire safety equipment, including alarms,
smoke detectors, sprinklers, emergency lighting, and fire safety doors; replace broken concrete walks, deteriorated asphalt; replace/upgrade
existing signage, bells and clocks; demolition of unsafe facilities; install new security systems, such as security (surveillance) cameras, outdoor
lighting, fencing, gates and classroom door locks; replace sewer lines and improve drainage systems to prevent flooding; upgrade roadway and
pedestrian paths for improved safety and access for emergency vehicles, site parking, utilities and grounds. The project list also includes the
refinancing of outstanding lease obligations. The upgrading of technology infrastructure includes, but is not limited to, the funding of a technology
endowment, LCD projectors, portable interface devices, servers, switches, routers, modules, sound projection systems, information systems,
printers, digital white boards, upgrade voice-over-IP, communication systems, call manager and network security/firewalI, Internet connectivity,
wireless systems, technology infrastructure, and other miscellaneous equipment and software.

The allocation of bond proceeds will be affected by the District’s receipt of State matching funds and the final costs of each project. In the
absence of State matching funds, which the District will aggressively pursue to reduce the District’s share of the costs of the projects, the District
will not be able to complete some of the projects listed above. Some projects, such as physical education facilities, may be undertaken as joint use
projects in cooperation with other local public or non-profit agencies. The budget for each project is an estimate and may be affected by factors
beyond the District’s control. The final cost of each project will be determined as plans and construction documents are finalized, construction
bids are received, construction contracts are awarded and projects are completed. Based on the final costs of each project, certain of the projects
described above may be delayed or may not be completed. Demolition of existing facilities and reconstruction of facilities scheduled for repair and
upgrade may occur, if the Board determines that such an approach would be more cost-effective in creating more enhanced and operationally
efficient campuses. Necessary site preparation/restoration may occur in connection with new construction, renovation or remodeling, or installation
or removal of relocatable classrooms, including ingress and egress, removing, replacing, or installing irrigation, utility lines, trees and landscaping,
relocating fire access roads, and acquiring any necessary easements, licenses, or rights of way to the property. Proceeds of the bonds may be
used to pay or reimburse the District for the cost of District staff when performing work on or necessary and incidental to bond projects. Bond
proceeds shall only be expended for the specific purposes identified herein. The District shall create an account into which proceeds of the bonds
shall be deposited and comply with the reporting requirements of Government Code § 53410.

33-9008-M7

RV 319-018

MEASURE “AA” - MT. SAN JACINTO COMMUNITY COLLEGE DISTRICT

Mt. San Jacinto Community College District
2014 Bond Election
Tax Rate Statement

An election will be held in the Mt. San Jacinto Community District (the “District”) on November 4,2014, to authorize the sale of up to $295,000,000
in bonds of the District to finance facilities as described in the proposition. If the bonds are approved, the District expects to issue the Bonds in
multiple series over time. Principal and interest on the bonds will be payable from the proceeds of tax levies made upon the taxable property in the
District. The following information is provided in compliance with Sections 9400 through 9404 of the California Elections Code.

1.	The best estimate of the tax which would be required to be levied to fund this bond issue during the first fiscal year after the sale of the first series
of bonds, based on estimated assessed valuations available at the time of filing of this statement, is $0.01320 per $100 ($13.20 per $100,000) of
assessed valuation in fiscal year 2015-16.

2.	The best estimate of the tax rate which would be required to be levied to fund this bond issue during the first fiscal year after the sale of the
last series of bonds, based on estimated assessed valuations available at the time of filing of this statement, is $0.01320 per $100 ($13.20 per
$100,000) of assessed valuation in fiscal year 2024-25.

3.	The best estimate of the highest tax rate which would be required to be levied to fund this bond issue, based on estimated assessed valuations
available at the time of filing of this statement, is $0.01320 per $100 ($13.20 per $100,000) of assessed valuation, which is projected to be the same
in every fiscal year that the bonds remain outstanding.

Voters should note that estimated tax rates are based on the ASSESSED VALUE of taxable property on the County’s official tax rolls, not on the
property’s market value, which could be more or less than the assessed value. In addition, taxpayers eligible for a property tax exemption, such as
the homeowner's exemption, will be taxed at a lower effective tax rate than described above. Certain taxpayers may also be eligible to postpone
payment of taxes. Property owners should consult their own property tax bills and tax advisors to determine their property's assessed value and
any applicable tax exemptions.

Attention of all voters is directed to the fact that the foregoing information is based upon the District’s projections and estimates only, which are not
binding upon the District. The actual tax rates and the years in which they will apply may vary from those presently estimated, due to variations
from these estimates in the timing of bond sales, the amount of bonds sold and market interest rates at the time of each sale, and actual assessed
valuations over the term of repayment of the bonds. The dates of sale and the amount of bonds sold at any given time will be determined by the
District based on need for construction funds and other factors. The actual interest rates at which the bonds will be sold will depend on the bond
market at the time of each sale. Actual future assessed valuation will depend upon the amount and value of taxable property within the District as
determined by the County Assessor in the annual assessment and the equalization process.

By:	Roger	W.	Schultz,	Ph.D.

Superintendent/President

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE “AA”

The Board of Trustees (“Board”) of the Mt. San Jacinto Community College (“District”) by adopting Resolution No. 2014/15-001 (“Resolution”),
elected to call an election pursuant to Section 18 of Article XVI and Section 1 of Article XI11A of the California Constitution and Section 15100 and
15624 etseq. of the California Education Code to obtain authorization to issue and sell general obligation Bonds (“Bonds”) in the aggregate amount
principal amount of two hundred and ninety-five millions dollars ($295,000,000).

This Measure was placed on the ballot by the Board of the above-identified District.

The Bonds would be used by the District to repair and upgrade campus facilities for career technical education, upgrade classrooms to support
programs for veterans and active military personnel, repair and renovate infrastructure to allow access to the disabled, repair, update and modernize
infrastructure, including technology, plumbing, electrical, parking and security. The Bonds would not be used to fund the salaries, pensions or
benefits of any board members, administrator, and/or teachers or for other school operating expenses.

If Measure “AA” is approved, the Board of the District will appoint a citizens’ oversight committee and conduct annual independent audits to assure
that bond funds are spent only on the construction, reconstruction, rehabilitation, or replacement of school facilities, including the furnishing and
equipping of school facilities, or the acquisition or lease of real property for school facilities, and for no other purposes.

An ad valorem tax would be levied and collected on property within the boundaries of the District to pay the principal and interest on the Bonds.

The Resolution provides that the maximum interest rate on the Bonds will not exceed the maximum interest rate permitted by the applicable laws
of the State and the maximum term of the Bonds, or any series thereof, will not exceed 40 years.

Approval of Measure “AA” does not guarantee that the proposed project or projects in the Mt. San Jacinto Community College District that are the
subject of the Bonds under Measure “AA” will be funded beyond the local revenues generated by Measure “AA”. The District’s proposal for the
project or projects may assume the receipt of matching state funds, which could be subject to appropriation by the Legislature or approval of a
statewide bond measure.

For this Measure to be approved fifty-five percent (55%) of qualified voters who vote on the Measure must vote yes.

A “YES” vote on Measure “AA” is a vote to allow the District to sell the Bonds and levy the necessary taxes to pay for the Bonds.

A “NO” vote on Measure “AA” is a vote against allowing the District to sell the Bonds and levy the necessary taxes to pay for the Bonds.

By:	Ronak	N. Patel, Deputy County Counsel

RV 319-019

33-9008-M8

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE “AA”

In the last four years, the state has cut millions of dollars from Mt. San
Jacinto Community College. We won’t stand for this, and can’t rely on
Sacramento politicians to help our local colleges—vote YES on “AA”!

Do you think it’s difficult to get a job in today’s slowly recovering
economy? We sure do! Vote YES on “AA” to expand essential
job training and workforce preparation skills in nursing, science,
technology, engineering and math to meet the needs of our local,
regional employers. A skilled workforce helps attract more high paying
jobs and businesses to our region.

YES on “AA” ensures that our tax dollars stay local to address our
area’s educational and job training needs. Sacramento is legally
prohibited from taking Measure “AA” funds!

YES on “AA” helps provide job training and education for our returning
military veterans. It is shameful how the federal government is treating
our war veterans. Mt. San Jacinto College is a national leader in helping
returning veterans reintegrate with their education and careers. It
upgrades and expands veteran services and job training so returning
veterans receive the support they need to complete their education and
enter the civilian workforce.

YES on “AA” will:

•	Improve our nationally-recognized, award-winning education
by expanding our transfer preparation and career training
opportunities/increasing partnerships with area employers to
fill local job training needs

•	Benefit students from EVERY region in the District

•	Double the college's student capacity

•	Upgrade leaky roofs and bathrooms

•	Upgrade outdated nursing labs, paramedic, 9-1-1, law enforcement
and job training classrooms

•	Ensure disabled accessibility

YES on “AA”'s strict Fiscal Accountability requirements include an
expanded Independent Citizens’ Oversight Committee and annual
financial audits ensuring money is spent as promised. No money will go
towards salaries or pensions and ALL money will stay local to address
our region’s education and job training needs.

By:	Marion	Ashley, Riverside County Supervisor

Joan Sparkman, Southwest Healthcare Governing Board

Rosemary Salgado, San Jacinto Unified School District and
Valley Wide Park & Recreation Trustee

Stephanie Vasquez, War Veteran

Karen Cranney, Mt. San Jacinto Faculty Association President

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE “AA”

While StateFunding was curtailed following the “Great Recession,”
Bond Proponents Falsely Argue that MSJC received only cuts during
the past 4 years. Rather, the 2014-15 State Budget increases Funding
by almost $1 Billion, or about 11 Percent over the previous year. “I’m
calling it a Grand Slam,” said Scott Lay, President of the Community
College League of California, a Nonprofit Association for Community
College Districts Statewide. “It freezes tuition and brings us back to the
Funding Levels of 2007-2008.” Budget Increases Include:

•	$155.2	Million	to fund a 3 percent restoration of access allowing

Colleges to add approximately 70,000 students.

•	$48.5	Million	to	fund a Cost of Living Adjustment of 0.86 percent.

•	$175	Million	for deferred maintenance and instructional

equipment.

•	$235.6 Million reduction in payment deferrals, combined with
$356.8 million proposed in one-time funds for this purpose.

•	$39	Million	in	Proposition 39 funds for energy efficiency and

workforce development projects.

•	$2.5	Million	for local technical assistance supporting

implementation of effective student success practices, with
priority placed on underperforming districts.

•	$1.1	Million	and nine new Chancellor’s Office positions to

develop student success indicators and monitor College/District
performance.

•	$50	Million	in	one-time	funding for incentive awards recognizing

models of innovation in Higher Education.

•	NO student fee increase for the 2014-15 Academic Year.

State Funding is Rebounding to Pre-Recession Levels. It’s the WRONG
time to Burden Locals with More Debt and Higher Taxes. Please Vote
NO on Measure “AA”

By:	StopTheMoneyGrab.com

Steven Beutz, Voter and Taxpayer
Martha L. Bridges, Community Advocate
Sheryl Ade, Former Wildomar City Councilmember
Gerard St. Marie

33-9008-M9

RV 319-020

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE “AA”

A vote in favor of this Controversial Bond Measure means Higher
Taxes. Measure “AA” means that WE Assume the Obligation to
Repay $Millions of Dollars in Debt issued on behalf of Mt. San Jacinto
Community College - in addition to Interest and Debt Servicing - which
makes Payback on Bonds as high as VA to 2 times the Original Debt.
So although MSJC will have roughly $300 $Million to Spend, the Money
WE are Obligated to Repay could reach nearly $600 $Million - which
Bottom Line remains Unknown because MSJC Neglects to Disclose
specifics of this ‘Minor’ detail. Bond issuers and Wall Street types are
Salivating over Stuffing their pockets full of Your Cash.

Measure “AA” also means OUR Homes become Collateral for
Repayment of these Bonds. Bond Holders gain a legal Right to
Foreclose and Auction off OUR Homes to Secure Debt Payments
in event of Default. So if You become short on Funds and choose
“Extravagances” such as food, clothing, health care, rent, car payments
or gasoline over Repaying MSJC’s Bond, You will risk Foreclosure
and having Your Home Sold off at a Public Auction to Repay Bonded
Indebtedness.

Measure “AA” is swirling in Controversy even before ink dries on the
ballots. The MSJC Board of Trustees could Not even reach a consensus
on their Decision to load You Down with more Debt. The vote was 4-1,
with Trustee Eugene Kadow voting NO on Bonds.

MSJC is among the Lowest performing Junior Colleges Statewide.
They manage resources Poorly and have left $Millions in State Funding
on the table by Failing to increase Class Sections. Now they want You
to Backfill their Underperformance with Bonds - Adding ways for You
to Lose your $Money and Possibly even Your Home. Enough is enough.
StopTheMoneyGrab.com

Please join US in voting NO on Measure “AA”.

By:	StopTheMoneyGrab.com

Steven Beutz, Voter and Taxpayer
Martha L. Bridges, Community Advocate
Sheryl Ade, Former Wildomar City Councilmember
Gerard St. Marie

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE “AA”

Don’t believe all the political rhetoric you hear. Yes on “AA” helps our
students, veterans, and college in a fiscally responsible manner!

The fact is, in the last four years, the state has cut millions of dollars
from Mt. San Jacinto College.

This is why the community is united behind Yes on “AA”. Business
leaders, veterans, city leaders, residents, taxpayers, teachers,
students, and homeowners all support Measure “AA”.

FACT: Measure “AA” is fiscally sound and has strict Fiscal
Accountability requirements including an expanded Citizens Oversight
Committee and annual financial audits ensuring money is spent as
promised. NO money will go towards salaries or pensions.

FACT: Yes on “AA” expands essential job training and workforce
preparation skills in nursing, science, technology, engineering and math
to meet the needs of our local, regional employers. A skilled workforce
helps attract more high paying jobs and businesses to our region!

FACT: Mt. San Jacinto College is recognized as one of only three
California community colleges as a top serving military friendly college.
Yes on “AA” helps provide job training and education for our returning
military veterans.

Mt. San Jacinto College is recognized as one of the top community
colleges in the country. The college is a national leader in helping
returning veterans reintegrate with their education and careers. Join us
in voting Yes on “AA” to upgrade and expand services and job training
to veterans and others.

Our economic vitality, our kids’ futures, and the quality of life in our
region depend on you voting Yes on “AA”.

For the facts, visit: www.msjc.edu.

By:	Joan	Sparkman,	Southwest	Healthcare	Governing	Board

Gisela Gosch, Former Hemet Unified School District Board
Member

Dan Stephenson, Founder and Chairman Rancon Realty

Scott Mann, Mayor, City of Menifee, Riverside County
Workforce Investment Board Member, Chair, United States
Service Academy Selection Committee 42nd Congressional
District

Andy Anderson, Executive Director, Hemet San Jacinto Valley
Chamber of Commerce

33-9008-M10

RV 319-021