MARK A. LUNN

Clerk Recorder/Registrar of Voters

Sample Ballot and

Voter Information Pamphlet

UDEL General Election
Tuesday, November 3,2015

Polls Open
November 3, 2015
7:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.

ATTENTION!

Your polling place may have changed.
See back cover for location.



Vote-By-Mail

October 5th - October 27th
Application on Back Cover

Last Day to Register to Vote
October 19, 2015

Ventura County Elections Division

800 South Victoria Avenue, L-1200 • Ventura, CA 93009
(805) 654-2664 • www.venturavote.org

County of Ventura

COUNTY CLERK AND RECORDER

MARK A. LUNN

County Clerk and Recorder
Registrar of Voters

Dear Ventura County Registered Voter:

Thank you for participating in the voting process! This Sample Ballot and Voter Information Pamphlet
provides candidate and measure information, ballot marking instructions, polling place hours and other
election details to enhance your voting experience. Please take a moment to review your Sample Ballot
which will help you be prepared to vote on Election Day.

You can choose how and when to vote. The following are your voting options:

1.	Vote at the Ventura County Elections Division

October 5, 2015 - November 2, 2015: Monday through Friday 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.

Election Day, Tuesday, November 3, 2015: 7 a.m. - 8 p.m.

2.	Vote By Mail

Mail in the Vote By Mail application on the back cover by October 27, 2015, if you are not
registered as a Permanent Vote By Mail voter. Permanent Vote By Mail voters automatically
receive a ballot in the mail approximately 27 days prior to each election.

3.	Vote at your assigned polling place on Tuesday, November 3, 2015

Polls are open from 7 a.m. - 8 p.m.

Did you know that Vote By Mail ballots received in the Elections Division before Election Day are the first
ballots to be counted on Election Night? You can learn more about Vote By Mail by reviewing this Sample
Ballot or by visiting www.venturavote.org.

If you have any questions, please visit www.venturavote.org or call (805) 654-2664. The Elections
Division team is here to assist you. Be sure to follow the County Clerk and Recorder/Registrar of Voters
on Facebook and Twitter, so you can receive timely election updates and be informed about the election
process. You may also download the Elections mobile app at www.venturavote.org.

Our mission is to serve the registered voters of Ventura County in a transparent and accessible manner
with the highest level of professionalism and integrity. We look forward to assisting you and counting your
vote!

Sincerely,

MARK A. LUNN, CERA, REO
Clerk and Recorder/Registrar of Voters

Preserving History • Protecting Democracy

(11/15) Elections Division • 800 South Victoria Avenue Ventura, CA 93009-1200 • (805)654-2664 • Fax:(805)648-9200 • www.VenturaVote.org

fsj What’s In This Guide 1

Three Ways to Vote............................................................................2

Voting By Mail..............................................................................3

Voting At Your Polling Place................................................................4

How to Mark Your Ballot.....................................................................5

Sample (Practice) Ballot......................................................................6

Voter Information Pamphlet (Candidate Statements & Local Measure).......................7	- End

Polling Place Location.....................................................................Back	Cover

Vote By Mail Application...................................................................Back	Cover

Help Us Keep the Voter File Accurate

If you receive Election material for someone who no longer lives at your address, or for
someone who is deceased, please let us know. Election material can be marked “Return to
Sender - No Longer at This Address,” or “Return to Sender - Voter is Deceased.” You may
also send a written notification to:

Ventura County Elections Division
800 South Victoria Avenue
Ventura, CA 93009-1200

56-CON

N VE 001-001

2

Three Ways To Vote

You have three options to choose from for casting your ballot:

Vote By Mail

Vote at your convenience! Receive your ballot in the mail, and either mail it in
or drop it off.

See Page 3 for details

Vote at the Polls

Find your polling place on the back cover of this booklet. Polls are open from
7:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. on Election Day, Tuesday, November 3rd.

See Page 4 for details

Vote Early at the Elections Office

Starting October 5th, voting is available at the office of the Ventura County
Elections Division. You can come in and cast your ballot, or pick up a Vote By
Mail ballot to take home.

8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.	Ventura County Government Center

Monday through Friday	Hall of Administration - Lower Plaza

(7 a.m. to 8 p.m. on November 3rd)	800 South Victoria Avenue, Ventura

Do I Need to Show ID?

In most cases, identification is not required to vote. However, if this is your first time voting and you
did not provide a driver’s license number or social security number when you registered to vote, you
may be required to provide one of the following: 1) A photo ID; or 2) A document with your name
and address, such as a Current Utility Bill, Bank Statement, Government Check, or other
Government Document.

56-3WY

N VE 001-002

Voting By Mail

3

Ballots will be mailed out beginning October 5th. To request a Vote By Mail Ballot:

HCall (805) 654-2664
-OR-

Fill out and mail in the application on the back cover of this booklet
-OR-

a Download the form Vote	By Mail Ballot Application from the Elections Division website:

www.venturavote.org/forms

OYour request must be received by October 27th.

Only the registered voter himself or herself may request a Vote By Mail ballot.

You may request a Vote By Mail ballot for all future elections by selecting the Permanent
Vote By Mail option.

Overseas citizens and military personnel have additional options. Visit www.fvap.gov for
more information.

If your ballot is lost or damaged, you can receive a new ballot by submitting a written
request. Call (805) 654-2664 for instructions, or download the form Affidavit to Request a
Second Vote By Mail Ballot from www.venturavote.org/forms.

How to return your Vote By Mail ballot:

By Mail - Voted ballots must be postmarked on or before Election Day and received by the
j^Qjl Elections Division no later than three days after Election Day. Do not forget to put the
required postage on the envelope.

In Person - Ballots dropped off in person must be received no later than 8:00 p.m. on
Election Day. Voted ballots may be dropped off at the following locations:

•	Ventura County Elections Division - Monday through Friday from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m.

•	Ventura County Government Center, Hall of Administration Main Entrance - 24 hours

•	Your polling place (Bell Canyon Association at 30 Hackamore Lane) on Election Day,
November 3, from 7 a.m. to 8 p.m.

©Follow the instructions that come with your Vote By Mail ballot. Be sure to sign the return
envelope. Your signature must appear similar to the original signature on your voter
registration form. A Vote By Mail ballot without your signature will not be counted.

56-VBM

N VE 001-003

4

Voting At Your Polling Place

Polling Places are open from 7:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. on Tuesday, November 3rd.

How do I find my Polling Place?

Check the back cover of this booklet

Call (805) 654-2664

Search online at www.venturavote.org/voter-lookups/wheres-mv-pollinq-place

How do I vote at the Polling Place?

State your name and address to the poll worker, and sign the roster. You will then receive a ballot.
Secrecy folders are available if you would like one. Take your ballot to a voting booth to vote.

Follow the instructions provided for marking your ballot. When you are done voting, insert your ballot
into the ballot box.

If you make a mistake on your ballot, return it to a poll worker to receive a new ballot.

Ask a poll worker if you have any questions.

What is Provisional Voting?

When a voter’s eligibility cannot be confirmed at the polling place, they may cast a Provisional
Ballot. Common reasons for provisional voting include:

•	The voter is not listed in the polling place roster.

•	The voter was sent a Vote By Mail ballot, but did not bring it with them to the polling place.

•	The voter has moved within the County, but did not update their voter registration.

If you require a provisional ballot, you will be given a registration form. Fill out the form completely,
and return your ballot in the envelope provided. You will receive a receipt, which you can use after
the election to find out whether your ballot was counted, and if not, why.

Is there

outside.

disability or language assistance available?

ACCESS?
W HCP:

Check the back cover of this booklet to see if your polling place is accessible:	HCP:	yes

If you are unable to enter the polling place, a poll worker can bring your ballot to you
You may also request assistance marking your ballot.

56-PLL

N VE 001-004

How to Mark Your Ballot

5

Use a ball point pen with BLUE or BLACK ink only. Do not use felt tip pens, gel ink, or pencil.

Draw one single thin line connecting the HEAD and TAIL of the ARROW that points to your choice.

Like this:

PRESIDENT and
VICE-PRESIDENT

PRESIDENT AND VICE PRESIDENT  Vote for One	
ZACHARY TAYLOR for President MILLARD FILLMORE for Vice President	Eagle
BENJAMIN HARRISON for President ADLAI E. STEVENSON for Vice President	Finch
CHESTER A. ARTHUR for President  THOMAS A. HENDRICKS  for Vice President	<  Cardinal
THEODORE ROOSEVELT for President  CHARLES W. FAIRBANKS for Vice President	Falcon
	
(WRITE-IN)	

Not like this:

Vote for One/ Vole porj

J^feNRY WILLIAMS JR.	x -V
DIANE A. LENNING	
Carry aceves^	^ J
GLORIA J. ROMERO	^ m
LYDIA A. GUTIERREZ	V + +
ALEXIA LDELIGIANNI	
LEONARD JAMES MARTI	1
GRANT MCMICKEN ^	^ m
KAREN BLAKE	*
DANIEL M. NUSBAUI/I	
TOMTORLAKSON	
■AARAX DAHIR SHE1KH-NOOR ^ ^	
•Xn	

MEASURES SUBMTTED TO THE VOTERS
MEDIDAS S0MET1DAS A LOS VOTANTES

STATE/ESTADO

EMINENT DOMAIN. LIMITS ON
QQ GOVERNMENT AUTHORITY.

570 INITIATIVE CONSTITUTIONAL

AMENDMENT. Ears state anc local
aovemrrents from taltrgor damaging prtrale
property for private uses. Prohibits rent control
arc! simiar measures Eliminates detersro to
Government in properN rights cases Changes
^condemnation rjtes. Fiscal Irrpact: Increased
)sts b many governments due to the
‘ isure’s restrtcftcns. Tne net statewide fiscal
t, however pic bat ly wcub not be

DOMINIO EMNEMTE. LIMITES
SOBRE LA AUTORIDAD DEL
GOBIERNO. ENMENDA
10NSTITUCI0NAL POR

INICIAlH^-ohloe cuo os gctoerros eslata y
ten de c dahen ptopedades
jspriuados ProNte el contro
icas sinifi'es. Elinrta la
cases de derecho de
regas de expropiaebn.
k oostos pam muchos

privadas pal,
oeaiqullere;
deferencia al _
prepedad Cant
I Toacio fiscal Mai
gooiemcsacausa
rastncciones de la i
embargo, el impaoto
sobceiodoel estado
prcbablerrente no serla
agnhcaiw

Cyes/s]>^

NO/NO ^X.

Check each contest to see how many candidates you can vote for.

You can vote for FEWER candidates than allowed, but if you vote
for MORE candidates than allowed, your votes in that contest will
not be counted.

OXNARD HARBOR DISTRICT
DISTRITO PORTUARIO OXNARD

pr Commissioner
Portuario

Vote for no more than Three
Vo te por no mas de Tres

You do not have to vote in every contest for your ballot to count.

Write-In Votes

To vote for a candidate who is not on the ballot, write the
name in the write-in space for that contest, and complete
the arrow pointing to that space. Only votes for qualified
write-in candidates are counted. A list of qualified write-in
candidates is available at your polling place or by calling
(805) 654-2664.

PRESIDENT and
VICE-PRESIDENT

PRESIDENT AND VICE PRESIDENT  Vote for One	
ZACHARY TAYLOR for President MILLARD FILLMORE  for Vice President	Eagle ^
BENJAMIN HARRISON for President ADLAI E. STEVENSON for Vice President	Finch
CHESTER A. ARTHUR for President  THOMAS A. HENDRICKS  for Vice President	◄  Cardinal
THEODORE ROOSEVELT for President  CHARLES W. FAIRBANKS  for Vice President	<  Falcon
	
(WRITE-IN)	

56-MYB

N VE 001-005

6

Sample Ballot

Review this ballot to get ready to
vote at the polling place. Mark it
as practice and take it with you.

OFFICIAL BALLOT

UDEL GENERAL ELECTION
COUNTY OF VENTURA
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 3,2015

INSTRUCTIONS TO VOTERS: Complete the arrow pointing to your choice like this:
To vote for a qualified write-in candidate, write the person’s name on the blank line
provided and complete the arrow.

IMPORTANT: USE BALL POINT PEN BLUE OR BLACK INK	ffcft

ONLY. DO NOT USE FELT TIP OR GEL INK.

NONPARTISAN

SCHOOL

LAS VIRGENES UNIFIED SCHOOL
DISTRICT

For Governing Board Member

Vote for no more than Two

LINDA MENGES

Parent/LVUSD Clerk

GARY L. MITTIN

Commercial Property Manager

MATHY WASSERMAN

Business Owner

(Write-In)

(Write-In)

MEASURES SUBMITTED TO THE

VOTERS

SCHOOL

LAS VIRGENES UNIFIED SCHOOL
DISTRICT

ETo protect the quality of

education in our local schools,
fund core programs in math,
science, reading, technology and the arts,
attract/retain highly qualified teachers,
counselors, and technology specialists,
maintain smaller class sizes, enhance
student achievement and prepare our
students for success in college and
careers, shall Las Virgenes Unified School
District continue for twelve years the
existing $98 annual school parcel tax
without raising the current rate,
with an exemption for seniors,
and all money staying local?

YES

NO

CA56-1-001

Sample Ballot / Muestra de Balota

Voter Information Pamphlet

7

The following pages contain information applicable to your ballot, which may include the
following items:

Candidate Statements

Each Candidate Statement in this pamphlet is printed exactly as submitted by
the candidate.

Including a statement in this pamphlet is optional, and candidates that choose to do so are required
to purchase the space; therefore this pamphlet may not contain a statement for every candidate on
your ballot. A complete list of candidates appears on the Sample Ballot.

Ballot Measure Information

Information on local ballot measures may include an impartial analysis, arguments
for and against the measure, and full text of the measure.

Arguments for or against a measure are the opinions of the authors, and are printed
exactly as submitted.

56-VIP

N VE 001-007

Candidate for Governing Board Member Las Virgenes Unified School District	Candidate for Governing Board Member Las Virgenes Unified School District
Name: Linda Menges  Occupation: Community Volunteer  We moved here in 1999 because of the excellent reputation of LVUSD, where our six children received an outstanding education. 1 am committed to preserving and improving our ranking as a high-achieving school district.  EXPERIENCE:  -	Career in banking with a solid background of fiscal management  -	Parent Faculty board leader for sixteen years as President and Treasurer  -	Created and implemented budgets that prioritized and maximized educational impact at every school level  -	Treasurer for Conejo Valley National Charity League  GOALS:  -	Create an environment where our children receive the academic and interpersonal skills to prepare them for today’s global economy  -	Provide innovative education for the students we serve, and the professionals we employ  -	Guide the responsible and transparent expenditure of district funds to maximize educational impact  -	Work to expand good relations with our cities, agencies and legislators  1 will bring to the LVUSD school board a detailed knowledge of the District; an understanding of the budgeting process; an ability to be objective and fair and an appreciation of what our students need to be successful in today’s competitive college placement and job market. 1 would be honored to have your support.  Please visit: www.lindamenges.com	Name: Mathy Wasserman  Occupation: Business Owner / Appointee to District Oversight Committee Community Volunteer  1 ask for your support so 1 can continue to serve the LVUSD community.  Twenty-one years ago, we moved to this area specifically for the LVUSD schools. Immediately, though we only had a preschooler, 1 became a stakeholder by volunteering at Round Meadow.  As our three boys matriculated, my LEADERSHIP, INVOLVEMENT, AND DEDICATION to LVUSD grew. 1 was elected to key positions at each of my son’s schools and appointed to oversight ones by our District.  1 will advocate for students, families and staff with my extensive understanding of LVUSD, as well as its interrelationships with local, state and federal entities. While asking the tough questions, 1 will offer creative solutions in collaboration with the partnerships and communities served.  Proactively, 1 will scrutinize spending, academic targets, technology and facility updates to ensure LVUSD excels in providing the best educational opportunities and environment.  Background: Small business owner, former entertainment marketing executive Appointed, Elected & Volunteer Experience:  -	LVUSD Committees: Measure G Oversight, Technology, On-Line Registration, Measure E  -	Calabasas High Registration, Tours, Community Outreach, 8th Grade Transition, Grants  -	Parent Faculty Association/Club President, Superintendent’s Council  -	Former President, Hidden Hills Homeowners Association www.mathvwasserman.com
	
	

3100E-1

N VE 001-008

Impartial Analysis by County Counsel*

The Las Virgenes Unified School District Board of Education submits this parcel tax measure to the voters for approval. The measure
will become effective only if at least two-thirds (2/3) of the voters vote “Yes” on the measure. If approved, the measure will authorize the District to
continue to levy a parcel tax of $98 per year against each parcel of real property within the Districts boundaries for twelve (12) full years
commencing July 1,2016, and terminating June 30,2028, unless extended by a subsequent measure approved by the voters. Passage of this
measure would continue an existing parcel tax that has been assessed since 2004 and is otherwise due to terminate on June 30,2016.

Parcels subject to the tax would include any parcel of land that lies wholly or partially within the District’s boundaries for which an
assessor’s parcel number has been assigned. Contiguous parcels that are used solely for owner-occupied, single-family residential purposes and
held under identical ownership may be treated as single parcels for purposes of this tax if the owners submit applications on or before June 15th of
any given year to the District in accordance with the District’s exemption procedures. In addition, annual exemptions from the parcel tax may be
obtained for parcels used solely for owner-occupied, single-family residential purposes by owners who are at least 65 years of age or who,
regardless of age, are receiving Supplemental Security Income, if they submit applications therefor by June 15th of any given year. Persons
currently exempt from the existing parcel tax will automatically be exempted from this measure’s parcel tax without the need to file for an additional
exemption. The District may establish administrative procedures to verify any applicant’s qualification for such exemption. The County’s Tax
Collector shall make final determinations on general property tax issues and exemptions; the District shall make final determinations with respect
to any disputed exemption claims under the terms of this measure.

In the event that the levy and collection of the parcel tax under this measure results in a decrease or offset of any local, state or federal
revenues, the District may cease the levy or shall reduce the special tax to the extent needed to restore the amount of the decrease or offset in
such other revenue.

The measure requires that a separate account be created into which proceeds of the parcel tax must be deposited. In addition, a written
report must be made annually to the District’s board showing the amount of funds collected and expended from the parcel tax proceeds and the
status of projects or programs required or authorized to be funded from the proceeds. The measure also requires that an independent community
oversight committee be reappointed by the District’s board to advise it on the expenditures funded by the parcel tax to ensure the funds are spent
for the approved purposes and to report to the board and the community on an annual basis as to how the funds have been spent.

* Section 9500 of the California Elections Code requires the County Counsel to prepare an Impartial Analysis for each school measure appearing on the ballot.

Argument in Favor of Measure E

Measure E does not increase current tax rates. Measure E simply continues an existing measure to maintain the high quality of education
students receive in our local schools by protecting core academic programs in math, science, technology, reading and the arts and helping to
attract and retain the highest quality teachers to educate our students.

Las Virgenes Unified Schools are a cornerstone of the cities of Calabasas, Agoura Hills, Westlake Village, Hidden Hills and surrounding
communities. They are part of what makes our neighborhoods special. Our excellent teachers and rigorous math, science and reading curriculum
have prepared generations of students to succeed. Our schools are in the top 2% statewide. This measure is critical to help us keep pace with
other top schools.

Measure E is a local measure. All funds generated will stay here, for local students. This money cannot be taken away by the State.

Specifically, Measure E will:

-	Continue funding for core programs in math, science, technology and reading

-	Help attract and retain high quality teachers

-	Provide funds to keep textbook and instructional materials up-to-date

-	Continue funding for theater, music and athletics

-	Maintain funding for teacher training in classroom technology

-	Maintain smaller class sizes

Measure E does not raise current taxes. It is a modest, thoughtful proposal supported by parents, teachers and community leaders because it
protects core academics and helps retain and attract our high quality teachers.

N VE 001-009

Argument in Favor of Measure E (continued)

Measure E provides an exemption for senior citizens.

Great schools make great communities by protecting our property values and keeping our neighborhoods strong and prosperous. Measure E is a
wise investment that will not increase local tax rates but will protect our local schools.

Join neighbors, parents, teachers and local community leaders to support our local schools. PLEASE, VOTE YES on E.

s/Richard Sherman	s/Ed	Corridori	s/Charlotte	Meyer

Calabasas Park Homeowners Association Former Mayor, Agoura Hills	Calabasas	Savvy	Seniors

s/Karen Zak Kent	s/Michael	S.	Wildermuth

Small Business Owner, Agoura Hills	Parent,	Westlake	Village

No Argument Against This Measure Was Submitted * •

Full Text of Measure E

LAS VIRGENES UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
High Quality Education and Local Control Funding Measure E

INTRODUCTION AND PURPOSE

To continue funding for core programs in math, science and technology, provide local reliable funding for local schools that cannot
be taken by the State, attract and retain highly qualified teachers, maintain smaller class size, fund programs in reading, technology, arts, theater,
music and athletics, continue to fund college and career advisors and school counselors, train teachers for effective use of classroom technology,
and keep textbooks, technology and instructional materials up-to-date, with no proceeds used for administrator salaries, benefits and pensions, the
Las Virgenes Unified School District (‘‘District”) proposes to renew and extend its existing high quality education and local control parcel tax,
without increasing the current tax rate, for a period of twelve years from its current expiration date (June 30,2016), starting on July 1,2016 at a
rate of $98 per parcel per year, with an exemption available for senior citizens and certain disabled persons, and to implement accountability
measures, including citizen oversight, to ensure the funds are used to:

•	Maintain core programs in math, science and technology;

•	Attract and retain highly qualified teachers; and

•	Maintain core programs in reading and the arts.

The proceeds of the parcel tax shall be deposited into a separate account created by the District.

DEFINITION OF “PARCEL”

For purposes of the high quality education parcel tax, the term ‘‘Parcel” means any parcel of land which lies wholly or partially within the
boundaries of the Las Virgenes Unified School District, that receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem property taxes from the Los Angeles or the
Ventura County Assessor/Tax Collector, as applicable. All property that is otherwise exempt from or upon which are levied no ad valorem property
taxes in any year shall also be exempt from the high quality education and local control parcel tax in such year.

For purposes of this high quality education and local control Parcel Tax, any such “Parcels” which are (i) contiguous, and (ii) used solely
for owner-occupied, single-family residential purposes, and (iii) held under identical ownership may, by submitting to the District an application of
the owners thereof by June 15 of any year, be treated as a single “parcel” for purposes of the levy of the high quality education and local control
parcel tax.

NVE OOI-OIO

Full Text of Measure E (continued)

EXEMPTION FOR SENIORS AND SSI RECIPIENTS

Pursuant to California Government Code Section 50079 (b)(1), any owner of a Parcel used solely for owner-occupied, single-family
residential purposes and who are either (a) 65 years of age or older on or before June 30 of the fiscal year immediately preceding the year in
which the tax would apply, or (b) persons receiving Supplemental Security Income for a disability, regardless of age, or (c) receiving Social
Security Disability Insurance benefits, regardless of age, whose yearly income does not exceed 250 percent of the 2012 federal poverty guidelines
issued by the United States Department of Health and Human Services, may obtain an exemption from the parcel tax by submitting an application
therefore, by June 15 of any year, to the District.

Persons currently exempted from the District’s expiring Measure E parcel tax shall automatically be exempted from this Measure without
having to file a new application.

The District may establish administrative procedures to periodically verify the continuance of any previously granted exemption.

With respect to all general property tax matters within its jurisdiction, the Los Angeles County Treasurer and Tax Collector and the
Ventura County Tax Collector, as applicable, or other appropriate county tax officials, shall make all final determinations of tax exemption or relief
for any reason, and that decision shall be final and binding. With respect to matters specific to the levy of the high quality education and local
control parcel tax, including any exemptions and the classification of property for purposes of calculating the tax, the decisions of the District shall
be final and binding.

REDUCTION IN TAX IF RESULT IS LESS OTHER GOVERNMENT SUPPORT

The collection of the high quality education and local control Parcel Tax is not intended to decrease or offset any increase in local, state
or federal government revenue sources that would otherwise be available to the District during the period of the Parcel Tax. In the event that the
levy and collection does have such an effect, the District may cease the levy or shall reduce the Parcel Tax to the extent that such action would
restore the amount of the decrease or offset in other revenues.

ACCOUNTABILITY MEASURES

In accordance with the requirements of California Government Code Sections 50075.1 and 50075.3, the following accountability
measures, among others, shall apply to the parcel tax levied in accordance with this Measure: (a) the specific purposes of the parcel tax shall be
those purposes identified above; (b) the proceeds of the parcel tax shall be applied only to those specific purposes identified above; (c) a separate,
special account shall be created into which the proceeds of the high quality education and local control parcel tax must be deposited; and (d) an
annual written report shall be made to the Board of Education of the District showing (i) the amount of funds collected and expended from the
proceeds of the high quality education and local control parcel tax and (ii) the status of any projects or programs required or authorized to be
funded from the proceeds of the parcel tax, as identified above. In addition to the accountability measures required by law, the District will
maintain its existing Citizens’ Oversight Committee to provide oversight as to the expenditure of parcel tax revenues.

NVE OOI-OII

Y oter Bill of Rights

1. You have the right to cast a ballot if you are a valid registered voter.

A valid registered voter means a United States citizen who is a resident in this state,
who is at least 18 years of age and not in prison or on parole for conviction of a
felony, and who is registered to vote at his or her current residence address.

12. You have the right to cast a provisional ballot if your name is not listed on the
voting rolls.

3.	You have the right to cast a ballot if you are present and in line at the polling
place prior to the close of the polls.

4.	You have the right to cast a secret ballot free from intimidation.

5.	You have the right to receive a new ballot if, prior to casting your ballot, you
believe you made a mistake.

If, at any time before you finally cast your ballot, you feel you have made a mistake,
you have the right to exchange the spoiled ballot for a new ballot.

Vote by Mail voters may also request and receive a new ballot if they return their
spoiled ballot to an elections official prior to the closing of the polls on Election Day.

6.	You have the right to receive assistance in casting your ballot, if you are unable
to vote without assistance.

7.	You have the right to return a completed Vote by Mail ballot to any precinct in
the county.

8.	You have the right to election materials in another language, if there are sufficient
residents in your precinct to warrant production.

9.	Yon have the right to ask questions about election procedures and observe the
elections process.

You have the right to ask questions of the precinct board and election officials regarding
election procedures and to receive an answer or be directed to the appropriate official for
an answer. However, if persistent questioning disrupts the execution of their duties, the
board or election officials may discontinue responding to questions.

10. Yon have the right to report any illegal or fraudulent activity to a local elections
official or to the Secretary of State’s Office.

If	you believe you	have been denied any of these , or if you are aware of any

election fraud or misconduct, please call the Secretary of State’s confidential toll-free

VOTER PROTECTION HOTLINE
1 -800-345-VOTE (8683)

FROM:

I C I AL



ngm

idi

Postage
required
Post Office will
not deliver
without proper
postage

DID YOU SIGN YOUR APPLICATION?

MARK A. LUNN

CLERK RECORDER/REGISTRAR OF VOTERS
ELECTIONS DIVISION
800 S VICTORIA AVE
VENTURA CA 93009-1201

BUSINESS REPLY MAIL

FIRST-CLASS MAIL PERMIT NO. 118 VENTURA, CA

POSTAGE WILL BE PAID BY ADDRESSEE

NO POSTAGE
NECESSARY
IF MAILED
IN THE
UNITED STATES

MARK A LUNN

CLERK RECORDER/REGISTRAR OF VOTERS
ELECTIONS DIVISION
800 S VICTORIA AVE
VENTURA CA 93003-9501

I.............................................................................I.............I.......................................................I

County Clerk and Recorder
Elections Division
County of Ventura
800 S. Victoria Avenue
Ventura, CA 93009-1200
MARK A. LUNN

Clerk Recorder/Registrar of Voters

NON PROFIT ORG.
U.S. POSTAGE
PAID
SANTA ANA, CA
PERMIT NO. 750

SEPARATE HERE

SEPARATE HERE

Your Polling Place	ACCESS?	DELIVER TO:
	'y HCP:	

APPLICATION FOR A VOTE BY MAIL BALLOT

DO NOT USE THIS FORM IF YOU HAVE ALREADY REQUESTED A VOTE BY MAIL BALLOT FOR THIS ELECTION.

APPLICATION MUST BE RECEIVED BY THE ELECTIONS DIVISION 7 DAYS PRIOR TO THE NOVEMBER 3, 2015,

UDEL GENERAL ELECTION, NO LATERTHAN 5:00 P.M., OCTOBER 27, 2015.

I HEREBY APPLY FOR A VOTE BY MAIL BALLOT FOR THE UDEL GENERAL ELECTION - NOVEMBER 3, 2015.

I am requesting Permanent Vote By Mail Status Q

I certify under penalty of perjury under the laws of the State of California that the information on this application is true and correct.

SIGNATURE _____

(Must be signature of the voter)

1. RESIDENCE ADDRESS

_ DATE.

STREET

CITY

2. Please mail my Vote By Mail Ballot to me at this address, if different from residence address:

STREET_________________________________________________________________________________________________

CITY__________________________________________

_STATE .

. ZIP CODE .

'SEPARATE HERE

SEPARATE HERE

iV ELECTION OFFICERS NEEDED ☆

Are you interested in serving your community? Concerned voters are needed to serve as Election
Officers in various precincts for upcoming elections. The compensation for serving at the polls
ranges from $90-$125 per day depending on the position assigned. Volunteers are also welcome.
(An “Election Day” is from 6:00 a.m. to approximately 9:30 p.m.)

Name

Pet - Number

(See “Polling Place Location” box at top of page)

Address
City____

-Zip

_Phone (.

Languages spoken (in addition to English) □ Spanish

DTagalog

Thank you for your interest,

Ventura County Elections Division

□	Chinese

□	Other

□ Hindi

VENTURA COUNTY