Measure G

Temporary 0.50% Transaction and Use Tax
City of Modesto

Majority Approval Required

Ballot Question:

Shall the City levy a temporary one-half of one percent (0.50%) local transactions
and use tax, increasing the City's ability to restore general city services that have
been cut since the economic recession began in 2008, including implementing the
Safer Neighborhoods Initiative by funding: police and fire services, crime
prevention, gang suppression, youth development efforts, removing tagging,
reducing nuisance properties, and increasing neighborhood collaboration?

Impartial Analysis from Modesto City Attorney

The City Council of the City of Modesto has placed the Safer Neighborhoods
Initiative/Measure G on the ballot to ask the City's voters to approve a temporary
one-half of one percent (0.50%) local transactions and use tax. The tax would, for
example, add a half-cent to the price of an item purchased for $1; it would add 500
to the price of an item purchased for $100.

According to a report on Measure G prepared by City staff, the tax would provide
approximately $14 million annually for the City's general fund, increasing the
City's ability to restore general city services that have been cut since the economic
recession began in 2008, including implementing the Safer Neighborhoods
Initiative by funding: police and fire services, crime prevention, gang suppression,
youth development efforts, removing tagging, reducing nuisancemproperties, and
increasing neighborhood collaboration. Measure G would not limit the use of the
tax revenue. Measure G is a "general tax," not a "special tax." As such, the City
may use funds from the tax for any legitimate governmental purpose.

The tax would continue until the earlier of: (i) March 31, 2024; (ii) actual annual
general fund revenues reach 2006-2007 levels of $120,369,703.00, (adjusted for
inflation, excluding tax proceeds under the Measure, and excluding any irregular
one-time revenues from State or Federal grants or programs); (iii) it is repealed by
a majority vote of the voters of the City; or (iv) it is repealed by a majority vote of
the City Council.

Measure G requires an annual independent audit. Measure G requires that City
Council appoint a Citizen Oversight Board to review revenues and expenditures
from the tax, review annual audits, and make an annual report to the City Council
regarding the tax.

Technically, "sales tax" is a combination of "sales and use tax" and "transactions
and use tax." With some exceptions, both are levied on the sale or use of tangible
personal property sold at retail. Retailers collect the tax at the time of sale and
remit the funds to the State Board of Equalization, which administers the tax.

The statewide sales tax rate is 7.5%, only a small portion of which is distributed to
counties and cities. Voters in Stanislaus County have approved an additional

0.125% tax, bringing the current sales tax rate in Modesto to 7.625%. If Measure G
is approved, Modesto's sales tax rate would increase to 8.125%.

A "Yes" vote is a vote to approve a one-half of one percent sales tax in Modesto. A
"No" vote is a vote against the tax. Measure G will pass if it receives a simple
majority of "Yes" votes.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of the Safer Neighborhoods
Initiative/Measure G. If you desire a copy of the ordinance, please call the City
Clerk's offi ce at (209) 577-5396 and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you.

/s/ Adam U. Lindgren

City Attorney, City of Modesto

Arguments For Measure G

There are many needs in any community, but Number One is keeping
neighborhoods safe. Economic development, jobs, and quality of life suffer
without safe neighborhoods.

Modesto is a city of great neighbors. Passage of Measure G supports efforts to
continue building strong neighborhoods and watch groups.

Modesto was hit hard by the economic recession, and continues to struggle to
recover. With passage of Measure G, Modesto will be able to restore public safety
while preparing for our economy to grow.

For the average citizen this measure will cost about four dollars a month. That will
provide 80 more cops and enhances fire safety. It will give the people of Modesto a
greater quality of life and stronger safer neighborhoods.

This will enhance gang suppression and prevention, improve traffic safety, and
bring expanded patrols at parks, rivers, and creeks. We will expand our
neighborhood code enforcement, and prosecute drug and nuisance housing issues.

Modesto put its fiscal house in order. The budget is balanced, retiree health
liability reduced by over 70% and headed towards zero, most employees now pay
all their share of pension, and new employees have a reduced pension impact plus
an older retirement age. Without a revenue source, Modesto's 10-year budget
forecast shows no room to add police or fire services.

Your City Council has passed a resolution on how added revenues will be spent:
the Safer Neighborhoods Initiative. 90% is for public safety! And the Council's
strategic plan places great safe neighborhoods as a core value.

There will be a citizen's oversight committee to audit and report how Measure G
revenues are budgeted and spent.

G is GREAT for Modesto. G is GREAT for our neighborhoods. G is GREAT for
you.

Vote YES on Measure G.

/s/ Marvin V. Jacobo, Neighborhood Advocate
/s/ Jenny Kenoyer, City Councilmember

/s/ Nicholas S. Bavaro, Former Chair, Stanislaus Central Republican Committee
/s/ Doug Highiet, Neighborhood Advocate/Business Owner

Rebuttal to Arguments For

If City Hall had learned to live within its means and guaranteed that its Measure G
tax increase actually was going to be spent on more police officers and other safety
measures, we might vote for it.

But City Hall won't learn to live within their means.

It won't provide guarantees on how new tax money would be spent. Just like their
failed 2013 tax, the City Council provides No Guarantees in Measure G.

Any new taxes can be spent on whatever future City Councils want.

Can they actually hire more police officers when City Hall's annual pension
'set-aside' is tripling by 2019?

While unfunded pension liabilities were $55,859,836 in 2008, they currently
total $209,650,130.

City Hall claims its money problems are "fixed". But, just before planning for this
tax increase, here's what City Hall did:

First, the City Council gave City employees pay raises. Even City Hall said these
raises will cost $4,500,000 more per year.

Second, many employees were given 3 extra days of paid vacation!

Third, the City Council decided NOT to spend over $5,000,000 in budget savings
on hiring new police officers or closing the gap for unfunded pensions or saving it
in a rainy day fund, but instead spent it on these pay raises and selected "one-time
projects".

Modesto is a community with an average per capita income of $23,017 (June,
2014).

The average City government employee salary is $67,339(2014).

Measure G has No Guarantees. Please join us. Vote No on G.

/s/ Loma J. Monteith, Retired

/s/ Claudia K. Miller, Retired Executive Director

/s/ Ernest R. Foote, VP Stanislaus Taxpayers Association

/s/ Patricia R. Boucher, Retail Clerk

/s/ Georgianna A. McDonald, Retired Teacher

Arguments Against Measure G

Whether you believe we need new taxes to pay for more police or you are against
new taxes entirely, we hope you will join us and vote no on Measure G.

City Hall tries to convince you that new taxes will be spent to make you safer.

Actually, there are no guarantees in Measure G that new taxes will be spent on
public safety, like more police officers.

Please read the whole tax proposal in this pamphlet. You will see that City Hall
can spend the new taxes on virtually anything.

In the fine print, City Hall admits that "Measure G would not limit the use of the
tax revenue." As a "general tax" and not a "special tax", the "City may use funds
from the tax for any ... purpose."

Voters cannot bind City Hall to any specific use of Measure G new taxes.

The only way voters can guarantee that new taxes would be spent on making us
safer is if the City Council had proposed a special tax. Special taxes legally can be
limited to specific purposes like more police officers.

Instead, City Hall chose a general tax that can be spent on any government purpose
City Hall wants, including exploding retirement pension costs for city
employees that retire at ages 50 and 55.

Pension costs alone are projected to triple from $7.33 million last year to over
$21 million in 2020 without hiring one single new police officer!

According to Modesto's own financial report, pension accounts are
underfunded by $209,650,130 (2014 CAFR, page 67).

Until City Hall gets current spending under control, all we can do is vote no to
send them a clear message.

Instead, let's work together on how we can make our neighborhoods safer without
bankrupting us. Vote NO on this blank check.

/s/ Joan A. Rutschow, Retired Teacher

/s/ Tim Fisher, Former Modesto City Councilman

/s/ Dave Thomas, President, Stanislaus Taxpayers Association

/s/ Theodore F. Mills, Concerned Citizen

/s/ Janice E. Keating, Former Modesto City Councilwoman

Rebuttal to Arguments Against

The argument against Measure G shows that the opponents are not fully informed.
It implies that the Council will not use revenues to improve our city. That is just
not true.

What is the truth? The truth is that your City Council has already passed an
ordinance on how revenues from Measure G will be used. They are:

•	Restoring 80 Police Officers

•	Restoring Community Service Officer positions

•	Keeping all Fire Stations Operating; restoring a truck

•	Building better Neighborhood Collaboration

•	Targeting Nuisance & Drug Houses for abatement

•	Fighting Gangs

•	Expanding Drug Resistance Programs

•	Strengthening Code Enforcement and Prosecution

Measure G is for more cops, better neighborhoods - G is for a Better
Modesto. G takes us from GOOD to GREAT. It will add another Police Anti-
Gang Team and community policing; it adds after-school programs to deter gang
recruitment.

It's also untrue that Measure G will cover pension obligations and benefits.
Modesto is a leader in the state for pension and benefit reform. None of Measure G
will go to pay current employee pensions. None will go toward current employee
benefits. ALL new employees have lower benefits and an extended retirement
age.

G is to improve our neighborhoods and the quality of life in Modesto. Those
against G have nothing to offer. They do not include any solutions or plans for
making our city better.

Measure G is all about building a better city. It is all about a safer Modesto. It is all
about stronger neighborhoods. G is GREAT for Modesto.

/s/ Nicholas Bavaro, Former Chair, Stanislaus Central Republican Committee
/s/ Jenny Kenoyer, City Councilmember

Full Text of Measure G

AN ORDINANCE ADDING ARTICLE 11 TO CHAPTER 2 OF TITLE 8 OF
THE MODESTO MUNICIPAL CODE RELATING TO TRANSACTIONS AND
USE TAX

The People and the City Council of the City of Modesto do ordain as follows:

WHEREAS, the People and the City Council of the City of Modesto desire to
restore critical City services and to implement its Safer Neighborhoods Initiative,
aimed at reducing crime, restoring public safety funding, maintaining a safe and
inviting community, improving quality of life, and increasing neighborhood
collaboration; and

WHEREAS, when compared to similar cities, Modesto is approximately 60
percent below average for property tax revenue and 29 percent below average for
sales tax per capita; and

WHEREAS, Modesto's sales tax rate of 7.625 percent is in the 16th lowest
percentile statewide and most Central Valley cities have sales tax rates from 0.5
percent to 1.375 percent higher than Modesto's; and

WHEREAS, a one-half of one percent (0.5%) general sales tax would help restore
critical City services, particularly police and fire services, which account for the
majority of General Fund expenditures; and

WHEREAS, since the economic recession started in 2008, the Modesto Police
Department has reduced the number of sworn officers from 287 to 219, and due to
this reduction the City has the highest per-employee workloads among the State's
25 most populous cities; and

WHEREAS, the reductions in sworn officers includes: the elimination of a unit
dedicated to neighborhood nuisance properties, the elimination of all school
resource officers, the elimination of focused DUI enforcement, the elimination of
participation in the regional auto theft task force, the reduction of gang suppression
unit officers from 16 to 8 officers, the reduction of traffic unit officers from 8 to 4
officers, the reduction of detectives from 32 to 21 detectives and the reduction in
community service officers from 38 to 20 officers; and

WHEREAS, a V2 percent (0.5%) general sales tax would enable the City to focus
general fund revenues on restoring critical staffing positions to the Police
Department and allow for more officers patrolling neighborhoods, more
collaboration with residents, increased responsiveness to complaints, more officers
dedicated to crime prevention and gang suppression, restoration of detectives to
respond to crimes, and restoration of code enforcement in blighted areas; and

WHEREAS, since the economic recession started in 2008, the Modesto Fire
Department has reduced personnel and apparatus resources by about 25 percent,
yet experienced a 22 percent increase in emergency incidents requiring a response
since 2010 including a 35 percent increase in structure fires; and

WHEREAS, this has resulted in a decrease in Fire Department response times to a
level that is far below industry standards, as the department arrives with full alarm
response within 10 minutes to 50 percent of structure fire calls, but the industry
standard is to arrive within 10 minutes to 90 percent of calls; and

WHEREAS, a V2 percent (0.5%) general sales tax would enable the City to focus
general fund revenues on restoring critical personnel and apparatus to the Fire
Department and as a result: improve response times to calls, prevent more structure
fires, improve fire and emergency services generally in the community, and
prevent the closure of one or more fire stations; and

WHEREAS, the City of Modesto is committed to long term fiscal prudence,
responsibility, innovation and self-reliance, and has created a strategic plan that
was adopted by the City Council, which Plan focuses resources on critical
priorities. The "Safer Neighborhoods Initiative" adopted by City Council
Resolution 2015-219 implements important components of the strategic plan; and

WHEREAS, if this sales tax is not approved, the City would be unable to
implement the Safer Neighborhoods Initiative; and

WHEREAS, this Ordinance requires for the tax to be temporary and to sunset in 8
years or sooner if the City's annual general fund revenues reach levels from the
2006-2007 fiscal year, calls for annual audits related to the tax, and requires a
citizen oversight board to oversee expenditures from the tax proceeds and report to
the City Council regarding the same.

SECTION 1. INCORPORATION OF RECITALS. The City Council and the
People of Modesto find that all the Recitals are true and correct and are
incorporated herein by reference.

SECTION 2. AMENDMENT OF MUNICIPAL CODE. Article 11 is hereby added
to Chapter 2 of Title 8 of the Modesto Municipal Code to read as follows:

ARTICLE 11. TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX.

8-2.1101- Title.

This Ordinance shall be known as the Modesto Transactions and Use Tax
Ordinance. This Ordinance shall be applicable in the incorporated territory of the
City (hereinafter "City.")

8-2.1102 - Operative Date.

"Operative Date" means the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing
more than 110 days after the adoption of this Ordinance, the date of such adoption
being as set forth below.

8-2.1103 - Purpose.

This Ordinance is adopted to achieve the following, among other purposes, and
directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish those
purposes:

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the provisions of
Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code and Section 7285.9 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 which authorizes the
City to adopt this tax ordinance which shall be operative if a majority of the
electors voting on the measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax at an
election called for that purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates provisions
identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California insofar as
those provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and limitations
contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax and
provides a measure therefore that can be administered and collected by the State
Board of Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and
requires the least possible deviation from, the existing statutory and administrative
procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization in administering and
collecting the California State Sales and Use Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be administered in
a manner that will be, to the greatest degree possible, consistent with the
provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize
the cost of collecting the transactions and use taxes, and at the same time,
minimize the burden of record keeping upon persons subject to taxation under the
provisions of this Ordinance.

8-2.1104 - Contract With State.

Prior to the operative date, the City shall contract with the State Board of
Equalization to perform all functions incident to the administration and operation
of this transactions and use tax ordinance; provided, that if the City shall not have
contracted with the State Board of Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall
nevertheless so contract and in such a case the operative date shall be the first day
of the first calendar quarter following the execution of such a contract.

8-2.1105 - Transactions Tax Rate.

For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax is hereby
imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated territory of the City at the rate of
one-half of one percent (0.5%) on the sale of all tangible personal property sold at
retail in said territory on and after the operative date of this Ordinance.

8-2.1106 - Place of Sale.

For the purposes of this Ordinance, all retail sales are consummated at the place of
business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is delivered by
the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for
delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall
include delivery charges, when such charges are subject to the state sales and use
tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no
permanent place of business in the State or has more than one place of business,
the place or places at which the retail sales are consummated shall be determined
under rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the State Board of
Equalization.

8-2.1107 - Use Tax Rate.

An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other consumption in the
City of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on and after the
operative date of this Ordinance for storage, use or other consumption in said
territory at the rate of one-half of one percent (0.5%) of the sales price of the
property. The sales price shall include delivery charges when such charges are
subject to state sales or use tax regardless of the place to which delivery is made.

8-2.1108 - Adoption of Provisions of State Law.

Except as otherwise provided in this Ordinance and except insofar as they are
inconsistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a part
of this Ordinance as though fully set forth herein.

8-2.1109 - Limitations on Adoption of State Law and Collection of Use Taxes.

In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing agency,
the name of this City shall be substituted therefor. However, the substitution shall
not be made when:

1.	The word "State" is used as a part of the title of the State Controller, State
Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or
the Constitution of the State of California;

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against this
City or any agency, offi cer, or employee thereof rather than by or against the State
Board of Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the administration or
operation of this Ordinance;

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sections referring to
the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the result of the
substitution would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or
other consumption of tangible personal property which would not otherwise be
exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other consumption remain
subject to tax by the State under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other consumption
of tangible personal property which would not be subject to tax by the state under
the said provision of that code.

4.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711, 6715, 6737,
6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

B.	The word "City" shall be substituted for the word "State" in the phrase "retailer
engaged in business in this State" in Section 6203 and in the definition of that
phrase in Section 6203.

8-2.1110 - Permit Not Required.

If a seller's permit has been issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code, an additional transactor's permit shall not be required by this
Ordinance.

8-2.1111 - Exemptions and Exclusions.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the use tax
the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or by any

city, city and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Bums Uniform Local Sales
and Use Tax Law or the amount of any state-administered transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax the
gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum products, to
operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the county in
which the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as
common carriers of persons or property under the authority of the laws of this
State, the United States, or any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the City which is shipped to a point outside
the City, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by the retailer or
his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at
such point. For the purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point outside the City
shall be satisfied:

a.	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject to registration
pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the
Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public
Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5
(commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration to an out-of-
City address and by a declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer,
stating that such address is, in fact, his or her principal place of residence; and

b.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of business out-
of-City and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, that the
vehicle will be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to furnish the
property for a fi xed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative
date of this Ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such
property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the
property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of this
Ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, the sale or lease of
tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a
contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease
has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether
or not such right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this Ordinance, the storage,
use or other consumption in this City of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a transactions tax
under any state administered transactions and use tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of aircraft and
used or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the use of such
aircraft as common carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under a

certificate of public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this
State, the United States, or any foreign government. This exemption is in addition
to the exemptions provided in Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code of the State of California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price pursuant
to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this Ordinance.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the tangible
personal property arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such
property for any period of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the
property for an amount fixed by a lease prior to the operative date of this
Ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, storage, use, or
other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power over,
tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a
contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease
has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether
or not such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in business in the
City shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible personal
property, unless the retailer ships or delivers the property into the City or
participates within the City in making the sale of the property, including, but not
limited to, soliciting or receiving the order, either directly or indirectly, at a place
of business of the retailer in the City or through any representative, agent,
canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the City under the authority of the
retailer.

7.	"A retailer engaged in business in the City" shall also include any retailer of any
of the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1
(commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft
licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or
undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section
9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to collect use tax from
any purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address
in the City.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this Ordinance may credit against that tax
any transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district
imposing, or retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2
of the Revenue and Taxation Code with respect to the sale to the person of the
property the storage, use or other consumption of which is subject to the use tax.

8-2.1112- Amendments. All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this
Ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to
sales and use taxes and which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 and
Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically

become a part of this Ordinance, provided however, that no such amendment shall
operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this Ordinance.

8-2.1113 - Enjoining Collection Forbidden.

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in
any suit, action or proceeding in any court against the State or the City, or against
any officer of the State or the City, to prevent or enjoin the collection under this
Ordinance, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax
or any amount of tax required to be collected.

8-2.1114 - Annual Audit.

Annually the City Council retains an independent auditor to conduct an audit of
and provide audited financial statements for all of the City's financial activities.

The auditor shall include an accounting of the revenue received from the tax in the
audited financial statements. The auditor's report shall be presented to the City
Council, be reviewed by the Oversight Board, made available on the City's website
and made available to the public.

8-2.1115 - Oversight Board

The City Council shall appoint a nine- to eleven-member Oversight Board by June
30, 2016 to meet publically at least annually and to: review all revenues and
expenditures from the tax measure, review annual audit reports related to the tax
measure, and make at least one written annual report to the City Council at a public
meeting summarizing the Oversight Board's findings and including any appropriate
recommendations. The minutes of the Oversight Board's meetings shall be
provided to the City Council and placed on the next available regular Council
meeting agenda for information purposes. The members shall be representative of
a cross-section of the community, possibly including, but not limited to,
representatives of: each geographical police division, schools, local trade
associations, chambers of commerce, nonprofit organizations, senior citizen
groups, non-partisan political organizations (such as the League of Women
Voters), neighborhood organizations, and law enforcement and emergency services
organizations (including individuals retired from such groups). The Oversight
Board shall, upon request, be provided with detailed information regarding crime
statistics, public safety response times, and other available data regarding the
performance of the programs funded by this tax measure.

8-2.1116 - Amendments by City Council.

The following amendments to this Ordinance must be approved by the voters of
the City: increasing the tax rate or revising the methodology for calculating the tax
such that a tax increase would result; imposing the tax on transactions and uses not

previously subject to the tax (unless such amendment occurs automatically by
operation of Section 8-2.1112 ); or extending the tax. The City Council may
otherwise amend this Chapter without submitting the amendment to the voters for
approval.

8-2.1117 - Termination Date.

The authority to levy the tax imposed by this Ordinance shall continue until the
earlier of: (i) March 31, 2024; (ii) actual annual general fund revenues reach 2006-
2007 levels of $120,369,703.00, as reported in the Comprehensive Annual
Financial Report (adjusted for infl ation, as measured by the U.S. Bureau of Labor
Statistics' national Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers; excluding tax
proceeds under this Ordinance; and excluding any irregular one-time revenues
from State or Federal grants or programs); (iii) this Ordinance is repealed by a
majority vote of the voters of the City; or (iv) this Ordinance is repealed or
suspended by a majority vote of the City Council. In the event that the City
Council repeals or suspends the tax, it may resume collection without voter
approval as long as the transactions tax rate and use tax rate are not higher than the
rates set forth in Sections 8-2.1105 and 8-2.1107, respectively, and so long as
collection ceases by the sunset date as set forth above.

SECTION 3. ADJUSTMENT OF APPROPRIATIONS LIMIT. Pursuant to Article
XIIIB of the Constitution of the State of California and applicable laws, the
appropriations limit for the City is hereby increased by the aggregate sum
authorized to be levied by this tax for fi seal year 2015-16 and each year thereafter.

SECTION 4. COMPLIANCE WITH THE CALIFORNIA ENVIRONMENTAL
QUALITY ACT. The approval of this Ordinance is exempt from the California
Environmental Quality Act (Public Resources Code §§ 21000 et seq., "CEQA,"
and 14 Cal. Code Reg. §§ 15000 et seq., "CEQA Guidelines"). This Ordinance
imposes a general tax that can be used for any legitimate governmental purpose; it
is not a commitment to any particular action. As such, under CEQA Guidelines
section 15378(b) (4), the ordinance is not a project within the meaning of CEQA
because it creates a government funding mechanism that does not involve any
commitment to any specific project that may result in a potentially significant
physical impact on the environment. If revenue from the tax were used for a
purpose that would have either such effect, the city would undertake the required
CEQA review for that particular project. Therefore, pursuant to CEQA Guidelines
section 15060, CEQA analysis is not required.

SECTION 5. SEVERABILITY. If any provision of this Ordinance or the
application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of
the ordinance and the application of such provision to other persons or
circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

SECTION 6. EFFECTIVE DATE. This Ordinance relates to the levying and
collecting of the City transactions and use taxes and shall take effect immediately
upon applicable voter approval.

ORDINANCE NO.____________-C.S.

AN ORDINANCE ADDING ARTICLE 11 TO CHAPTER 2 OF
TITLE 8 OF THE MODESTO MUNICIPAL CODE
RELATING TO TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX

The People and the City Council of the City of Modesto do ordain as follows:

WHEREAS, the People and the City Council of the City of Modesto desire to restore
critical City services and to implement its Safer Neighborhoods Initiative, aimed at reducing
crime, restoring public safety funding, maintaining a safe and inviting community, improving
quality of life, and increasing neighborhood collaboration; and

WHEREAS, when compared to similar cities, Modesto is approximately 60 percent
below average for property tax revenue and 29 percent below average for sales tax per
capita; and

WHEREAS, Modesto’s sales tax rate of 7.625 percent is in the 16th lowest
percentile statewide and most Central Valley cities have sales tax rates from 0.5 percent to
1.375 percent higher than Modesto’s; and

WHEREAS, a one-half of one percent (0.5%) general sales tax would help restore
critical City services, particularly police and fire services, which account for the majority of
General Fund expenditures; and

1

WHEREAS, since the economic recession started in 2008, the Modesto Police
Department has reduced the number of sworn officers from 287 to 219, and due to this
reduction the City has the highest per-employee workloads among the State’s 25 most
populous cities; and

WHEREAS, the reductions in sworn officers includes: the elimination of a unit
dedicated to neighborhood nuisance properties, the elimination of all school resource
officers, the elimination of focused DUI enforcement, the elimination of participation in the
regional auto theft task force, the reduction of gang suppression unit officers from 16 to 8
officers, the reduction of traffic unit officers from 8 to 4 officers, the reduction of detectives
from 32 to 21 detectives and the reduction in community service officers from 38 to 20
officers; and

WHEREAS, a Vz percent (0.5%) general sales tax would enable the City to focus
general fund revenues on restoring critical staffing positions to the Police Department and
allow for more officers patrolling neighborhoods, more collaboration with residents,
increased responsiveness to complaints, more officers dedicated to crime prevention and
gang suppression, restoration of detectives to respond to crimes, and restoration of code
enforcement in blighted areas; and

WHEREAS, since the economic recession started in 2008, the Modesto Fire
Department has reduced personnel and apparatus resources by about 25 percent, yet
experienced a 22 percent increase in emergency incidents requiring a response since 2010
including a 35 percent increase in structure fires; and

2

WHEREAS, this has resulted in a decrease in Fire Department response times to a
level that is far below industry standards, as the department arrives with full alarm response
within 10 minutes to 50 percent of structure fire calls, but the industry standard is to arrive
within 10 minutes to 90 percent of calls; and

WHEREAS, a Vt. percent (0.5%) general sales tax would enable the City to focus
general fund revenues on restoring critical personnel and apparatus to the Fire Department
and as a result: improve response times to calls, prevent more structure fires, improve fire
and emergency services generally in the community, and prevent the closure of one or
more fire stations; and

WHEREAS, the City of Modesto is committed to long term fiscal prudence,
responsibility, innovation and self-reliance, and has created a strategic plan that was
adopted by the City Council, which Plan focuses resources on critical priorities. The “Safer

Neighborhoods Initiative” adopted by City Council Resolution_implements important

components of the strategic plan; and

WHEREAS, if this sales tax is not approved, the City would be unable to implement
the Safer Neighborhoods Initiative; and

WHEREAS, this Ordinance requires for the tax to be temporary and to sunset in 8
years or sooner if the City’s annual general fund revenues reach levels from the 2006-2007
fiscal year, calls for annual audits related to the tax, and requires a citizen oversight board
to oversee expenditures from the tax proceeds and report to the City Council regarding the

3

same.

SECTION 1. INCORPORATION OF RECITALS. The City Council and the
People of Modesto find that all the Recitals are true and correct and are incorporated
herein by reference.

SECTION 2. AMENDMENT OF MUNICIPAL CODE. Article 11 is hereby
added to Chapter 2 of Title 8 of the Modesto Municipal Code to read as follows:
ARTICLE 11. TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX.

8-2.1101-Title.

This Ordinance shall be known as the Modesto Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance. This Ordinance
shall be applicable in the incorporated territory of the City (hereinafter "City.")

8-2.1102 - Operative Date.

"Operative Date" means the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing more than 110 days
after the adoption of this Ordinance, the date of such adoption being as set forth below.

8-2.1103 - Purpose.

This Ordinance is adopted to achieve the following, among other purposes, and directs that the
provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish those purposes:

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the provisions of Part 1.6
(commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code and Section
7285.9 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 which authorizes the City to adopt this tax ordinance which shall be
operative if a majority of the electors voting on the measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax
at an election called for that purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates provisions identical to those of
the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California insofar as those provisions are not inconsistent

4

with the requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax and provides a measure
therefore that can be administered and collected by the State Board of Equalization in a manner that
adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and requires the least possible deviation from, the existing
statutory and administrative procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization in administering
and collecting the California State Sales and Use Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be administered in a manner that will
be, to the greatest degree possible, consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting the transactions and use taxes, and at
the same time, minimize the burden of record keeping upon persons subject to taxation under the
provisions of this Ordinance.

8-2.1104 - Contract With State.

Prior to the operative date, the City shall contract with the State Board of Equalization to perform all
functions incident to the administration and operation of this transactions and use tax ordinance; provided,
that if the City shall not have contracted with the State Board of Equalization prior to the operative date, it
shall nevertheless so contract and in such a case the operative date shall be the first day of the first calendar
quarter following the execution of such a contract.

8-2.1105 - Transactions Tax Rate.

For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon all
retailers in the incorporated territory of the City at the rate of one-half of one percent (0.5%) on the sale of all
tangible personal property sold at retail in said territory on and after the operative date of this Ordinance.

8-2.1106-Place of Sale.

For the purposes of this Ordinance, all retail sales are consummated at the place of business of the
retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state

5

destination or to a common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts from such
sales shall include delivery charges, when such charges are subject to the state sales and use tax, regardless
of the place to which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the State
or has more than one place of business, the place or places at which the retail sales are consummated shall
be determined under rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the State Board of Equalization.

8-2.1107 - Use Tax Rate.

An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other consumption in the City of tangible
personal property purchased from any retailer on and after the operative date of this Ordinance for storage,
use or other consumption in said territory at the rate of one-half of one percent (0.5%) of the sales price of the
property. The sales price shall include delivery charges when such charges are subject to state sales or use
tax regardless of the place to which delivery is made.

8-2.1108 - Adoption of Provisions of State Law.

Except as otherwise provided in this Ordinance and except insofar as they are inconsistent with the
provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1
(commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and
made a part of this Ordinance as though fully set forth herein.

8-2.1109 - Limitations on Adoption of State Law and Collection of Use Taxes.

In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the name of this
City shall be substituted therefor. However, the substitution shall not be made when:

1.	The word "State" is used as a part of the title of the State Controller, State Treasurer, State
Board of Control, State Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or the Constitution of the State
of California;

6

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against this City or any
agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by or against the State Board of
Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the administration or operation of this
Ordinance;

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sections referring to the exterior
boundaries of the State of California, where the result of the substitution would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other
consumption of tangible personal property which would not otherwise be exempt from
this tax while such sales, storage, use or other consumption remain subject to tax by the
State under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other consumption of
tangible personal property which would not be subject to tax by the state under the said
provision of that code.

4.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711, 6715, 6737, 6797 or
6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

B.	The word "City" shall be substituted for the word "State" in the phrase "retailer engaged in
business in this State" in Section 6203 and in the definition of that phrase in Section 6203.

8-2.1110 - Permit Not Required.

If a seller's permit has been issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation

Code, an additional transactor's permit shall not be required by this Ordinance.

8-2.1111 - Exemptions and Exclusions.

A. There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the use tax the amount of
any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or by any city, city and county, or

county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the amount of
any state-administered transactions or use tax.

B. There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax the gross receipts
from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum products, to operators of
aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the county in which the sale is made and
directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property
under the authority of the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the City which is shipped to a point outside the City,
pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by the retailer or his agent, or by
delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at such point. For the purposes of
this paragraph, delivery to a point outside the City shall be satisfied:

a.	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject to registration pursuant
to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft
licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and
undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of
the Vehicle Code by registration to an out-of-City address and by a declaration under
penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that such address is, in fact, his or her
principal place of residence; and

b.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of business out-of-City
and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, that the vehicle will be
operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to furnish the property for a
fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this Ordinance.

8

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such property, for any
period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by the
lease prior to the operative date of this Ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, the sale or lease of tangible
personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any
period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate
the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this Ordinance, the storage, use or other
consumption in this City of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a transactions tax under any
state administered transactions and use tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of aircraft and used or
consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common
carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under a certificate of public convenience
and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign
government. This exemption is in addition to the exemptions provided in Sections 6366 and
6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract
entered into prior to the operative date of this Ordinance.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the tangible personal property
arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such property for any period of time for
which the lessee is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by a lease prior to the
operative date of this Ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, storage, use, or other
consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power over, tangible personal property

9

shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for
which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or
lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in business in the City shall not
be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible personal property, unless the retailer
ships or delivers the property into the City or participates within the City in making the sale of the
property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving the order, either directly or indirectly,
at a place of business of the retailer in the City or through any representative, agent, canvasser,
solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the City under the authority of the retailer.

7.	"A retailer engaged in business in the City" shall also include any retailer of any of the
following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000)
of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public
Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section
9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to collect use tax from any purchaser
who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the City.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this Ordinance may credit against that tax any transactions
tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district imposing, or retailer liable for a
transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code with
respect to the sale to the person of the property the storage, use or other consumption of which
is subject to the use tax.

8-2.1112- Amendments.

All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this Ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and
Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part of this Ordinance, provided
however, that no such amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this Ordinance.

10

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit, action or
proceeding in any court against the State or the City, or against any officer of the State or the City, to prevent
or enjoin the collection under this Ordinance, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of
any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.

8-2.1114 - Annual Audit.

Annually the City Council retains an independent auditor to conduct an audit of and provide audited
financial statements for all of the City’s financial activities. The auditor shall include an accounting of the
revenue received from the tax in the audited financial statements. The auditor’s report shall be presented to
the City Council, be reviewed by the Oversight Board, made available on the City’s website and made
available to the public.

8-2.1115 - Oversight Board

The City Council shall appoint a nine- to eleven-member Oversight Board by June 30, 2016 to meet
publically at least annually and to: review all revenues and expenditures from the tax measure, review annual
audit reports related to the tax measure, and make at least one written annual report to the City Council at a
public meeting summarizing the Oversight Board’s findings and including any appropriate recommendations.
The minutes of the Oversight Board’s meetings shall be provided to the City Council and placed on the next
available regular Council meeting agenda for information purposes. The members shall be representative of a
cross-section of the community, possibly including, but not limited to, representatives of: each geographical
police division, schools, local trade associations, chambers of commerce, nonprofit organizations, senior
citizen groups, non-partisan political organizations (such as the League of Women Voters), neighborhood
organizations, and law enforcement and emergency services organizations (including individuals retired from
such groups). The Oversight Board shall, upon request, be provided with detailed information regarding
crime statistics, public safety response times, and other available data regarding the performance of the
programs funded by this tax measure.

11

8-2.1116 - Amendments by City Council.

The following amendments to this Ordinance must be approved by the voters of the City: increasing
the tax rate or revising the methodology for calculating the tax such that a tax increase would result; imposing
the tax on transactions and uses not previously subject to the tax (unless such amendment occurs
automatically by operation of Section 8-2.1112); or extending the tax. The City Council may otherwise amend
this Chapter without submitting the amendment to the voters for approval.

8-2.1117 -Termination Date.

The authority to levy the tax imposed by this Ordinance shall continue until the earlier of: (i) March 31,
2024; (ii) actual annual general fund revenues reach 2006-2007 levels of $120,369,703.00, as reported in the
Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (adjusted for inflation, as measured by the U.S. Bureau of Labor
Statistics’ national Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers; excluding tax proceeds under this
Ordinance; and excluding any irregular one-time revenues from State or Federal grants or programs); (iii) this
Ordinance is repealed by a majority vote of the voters of the City; or (iv) this Ordinance is repealed or
suspended by a majority vote of the City Council. In the event that the City Council repeals or suspends the
tax, it may resume collection without voter approval as long as the transactions tax rate and use tax rate are
not higher than the rates set forth in Sections 8-2.1105 and 8-2.1107, respectively, and so long as collection
ceases by the sunset date as set forth above.

SECTION 3. ADJUSTMENT OF APPROPRIATIONS LIMIT. Pursuant to Article XIIIB of the Constitution of the
State of California and applicable laws, the appropriations limit for the City is hereby increased by the
aggregate sum authorized to be levied by this tax for fiscal year 2015-16 and each year thereafter.

SECTION 4. COMPLIANCE WITH THE CALIFORNIA ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY ACT. The approval of
this Ordinance is exempt from the California Environmental Quality Act (Public Resources Code §§ 21000 et
seq., “CEQA,” and 14 Cal. Code Reg. §§ 15000 et seq., “CEQA Guidelines”). This Ordinance imposes a
general tax that can be used for any legitimate governmental purpose; it is not a commitment to any particular
action. As such, under CEQA Guidelines section 15378(b)(4), the ordinance is not a project within the
meaning of CEQA because it creates a government funding mechanism that does not involve any

12

commitment to any specific project that may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the
environment. If revenue from the tax were used for a purpose that would have either such effect, the city
would undertake the required CEQA review for that particular project. Therefore, pursuant to CEQA
Guidelines section 15060, CEQA analysis is not required.

SECTION 5. SEVERABILITY. If any provision of this Ordinance or the application thereof to any person or
circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the ordinance and the application of such provision to other
persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

SECTION 6. EFFECTIVE DATE. This Ordinance relates to the levying and collecting of the City transactions
and use taxes and shall take effect immediately upon applicable voter approval.

The foregoing Ordinance was adopted by City Council of the City of Modesto, subject to voter approval, on
________________________,	2015 by the following vote:

AYES:

NOES:

ABSENT:

ABSTAIN:

Garrad Marsh, Mayor
ATTEST:

Stephanie Lopez, City Clerk
APPROVED AS TO FORM:

Adam U. Lindgren, City Attorney

2454580.2

13