Ballot question

The following question appeared on the ballot:[2]

Shall an ordinance be adopted to update and extend for a period often
years the Utility User Tax and reduce the maximum rate of the tax from

6% to 5%?[3]

Impartial analysis

The following impartial analysis of Measure U was prepared by the office of the city
attorney:

This ballot measure submitted to the voters extends and updates the
City’s existing Utility User Tax, which has been in place since 1992. The
Utility User Tax is a tax on the use of telecommunications, electricity,
natural gas, water and video services in the city. The tax is paid by the
consumer and collected as part of the utility bill.

Measure U reduces the tax rate limit from 6% to 5%. The City Council
could reduce the tax rate or decide to not collect the tax at all but could
not increase the tax above the 5% cap.

The measure also updates the tax to reflect changes in the technology of
providing telecommunications and video services. This is consistent with
the intent of the original voter-approved Utility User Tax which was to
apply the tax to video and telecommunications services regardless of the
manner in which the services are delivered or received.

The Utility User Tax is a general tax. General taxes are not limited to a
specific purpose and can be used for general City operating expenses and
capital improvements, such as police, fire, library and landscape
maintenance services and construction of streets, parks and other City
facilities.

A “YES” vote on the ballot measure authorizes the continued collection of
the Utility User Tax, as revised. If approved, the measure will take effect
April 1,2017 and expire on March 31, 2027. A “NO” vote will eliminate the
Utility User Tax as of April 1,2017. The measure will be adopted if it is
approved by a majority of the voters.[3]

—San Marino City Attorney Steven L. Dorseym

Full text

The full text of the ordinance is available here.

Support

VOTE

ON U & SA

Vote YES on Measures U & SA
For Public Safety (SA) and
a Strong Community (U)

Support campaign logo

Supporters

Vote Yes on U & SA was the committee behind the support campaign for this measure,
as well as Measure SA.[4]

The following individuals signed the official argument in favor of Measure U:[5]

•	Jerry Hawk, co-chair of the Committee of San Marino Residents for Public
Safety Tax

•	Wendell Mortimer, co-chair of the Committee of San Marino Residents for
Public Safety Tax

•	Tom Santley, co-chair of the Committee of San Marino Residents for Public
Safety Tax

•	Linda Sun, co-chair of the Committee of San Marino Residents for Public
Safety Tax

•	Eugene Sun, San Marino Mayor representing the San Marino City Council

Arguments in favor

Regarding Measure U, San Marino City Manager John Schaefer stated, “In San Marino,
it’s important because San Marino is unique in that it doesn’t have the sales tax that
most communities have. I also think that San Marino expects a high level of government
services. I believe in the past, these taxes have been approved because they do
provide a lot of core services.”[6]

Official argument

The following official argument was submitted in favor of Measure U:

Ballot Measure U simply continues San Marino’s current Utility Users Tax
which has been in effect and unchanged for nearly 23 years. This most
efficient and least burdensome of taxes was unanimously approved by the
City Council, and has always had a high level of acceptance in our
community.

In the past, voters have approved a tax of up to 6% on the utility bills. This
time, voters are asked to approve reducing the cap on this tax from 6% to
5%.

The Utility Users Tax was initially instituted by the City Council to offset
revenues taken by the State to balance the State’s budget. However, the
money generated also provides for needed City projects consisting of
major capital and infrastructure projects, including sewer and storm drain
replacement, cleaning and repair, building improvements, maintenance of
aging facilities such as the Civic Center Complex, ongoing street repair,
slurry sealing and maintenance, replacing of our antiquated street lighting
system, and maintenance of street trees, public parkways and Lacy Park.

The funds can also be used, as needed, to partially support the Police,

Fire and Paramedic programs.

Every penny of this money remains in San Marino to improve, maintain
and protect our great City. The allocation of these funds is controlled
locally, and there is no charge to the City budget for tax collection.

The Committee of San Marino Residents For Measure U and the City
Council are asking the voters to VOTE YES to ratify the Utility Users Tax.

This will allow the elected City Council to continue to maintain our
infrastructure and the quality and character of community life unique to
San Marino which we enjoy.[3]

—Jerry Hawk, Wendell Mortimer, Tom Santley, Linda Sun and Eugene Sun[5]

Opposition

No official argument against Measure U was submitted by the deadline. If you know of
any endorsements or arguments that should be posted here, please email the Local
Ballot Measures Project staff writer.[7]