Sonoma County General Sales Tax,
Measure A (June 2015)

| Text of measure

Ballot question

The following question appeared on the ballot:!3]

Shall the people of Sonoma County enact a one-quarter percent sales tax for general
governmental purposes such as public safety, local roads and pothole repair, senior,
student and veterans transit and other essential services within the nine cities and
unincorporated area for 5 years with annual audits made available to the public
showing how all revenue was spent the previous year?1'

Impartial analysis

The following impartial analysis of Measure A was prepared by the office of the
county counsel:

The County of Sonoma has proposed a general transactions and use tax (sales tax)
of one-quarter of one cent per dollar (0.25%). The tax would be levied for no more
than five years unless extended by the voters.

State law authorizes the County to levy a sales tax if the ordinance proposing the
tax is approved by a two-thirds vote of all members of the Board of Supervisors and
the tax is approved by a majority of the voters who vote in the election. The Board
of Supervisors unanimously approved the tax on November 4, 2014. If a majority of
the voters in the County who vote on this measure vote “Yes,” the measure will
pass and the sales tax will be levied.

The revenue generated by this general tax, which is estimated in the accompanying
Financial Impact Statement, would be deposited into the County General Fund and
would be available for general governmental purposes, including public safety;
local roads and pothole repair; senior, student and veterans transit; and other
essential services. The revenue from the tax would be annually appropriated by the
Board for general governmental purposes. The measure does not restrict the use of
tax revenue to any specific purpose.

The tax would be paid in addition to the current sales tax. Like the current sales tax,
the tax would be imposed on all retailers in the incorporated and unincorporated
County for the selling of tangible personal property, subject to certain exemptions
and exclusions identified in the measure.

If approved, the tax will take effect immediately on June 2, 2015. The tax will
terminate in five years unless a majority of voters extend or reauthorize the tax at a
subsequent election, ra

—Jeffrey M. Brax, deputy county counsel131

Fiscal impact statement

The following fiscal impact statement was prepared for Measure A by the office of
the county auditor:

This measure would increase the sales tax collected in Sonoma County by one-
quarter of one cent per dollar (0.25%) of taxable sales.

Based on records from the State Board of Equalization for the period of August
2013 through July 2014, taxable sales throughout Sonoma County amounted to
$8,180,562,340. Applying a 0.25% additional sales tax to that amount would yield
approximately $20,451,406 in additional revenue to be apportioned annually by the
Board of Supervisors.

Over the five-year life of the measure, given current taxable spending in the county,
the county would receive additional funding in excess of $102,250,000.

Expenditures: Funds raised under the measure will be used for general
governmental purposes. Annual audits showing where the revenue was spent will
be conducted and made available to the public.

In accordance with the Elections Code, the scope of this fiscal impact statement has
been limited to the measure’s effect on revenues and expenditures. It does not
address larger countywide fiscal issues such as the measure’s effect on the overall
County economy.!5]

—David E. Sundstrom, CPA auditor-controller-treasurer-tax collector13

Arguments in favor

Official arguments

The following was submitted as the official argument in support of Measure A:

Anyone who’s driven a car, taken a bus or ridden a bicycle in Sonoma County
knows exactly why we need to vote Yes on Measure A - because it will provide
funds that can repair our city streets and rural roads, reduce traffic congestion,
increase transit services for seniors, students and veterans and create local jobs.

Vote Yes on Measure A to help save money. It can cost ten times as much to repair
a road when it has deteriorated over time.

Vote Yes on Measure A to hold elected officials accountable. Measure A provides
for audits conducted every year to show how the money is being spent. And if
we’re not satisfied, the tax expires in five years.

Vote Yes on Measure A to improve safety with faster emergency response times
and safer routes for pedestrians and bicyclists.

Vote Yes on Measure A to increase transit services for our seniors, students,
veterans and the disabled. And that means more safety for those who need it most.

Vote Yes on Measure A to protect our environment. Better roads and more transit
means less traffic and fewer greenhouse gas emissions.

Measure A is supported by virtually every group in the county including business
groups, environmentalists, farmers, Sonoma County Conservation Action, North
Bay Labor Council, the Santa Rosa Firefighters Association, police and local city
councils.

Please join all of us and thousands of your neighbors who are voting Yes on
Measure A^i

—Craig S. Harrison, Dennis Rosatti, Congressman Mike Thompson (D-5). Janet Orchard and Al Terrell^

Arguments against

Official arguments

The following was submitted as the official argument in opposition to this measure:

// A very bad precedent is being set here.

The County is seeking what is called a “General Tax” which requires only a simple
majority vote to pass and which, under state law, provides unrestricted funds. Tax
collected will not be restricted as to its use.

The specific measure being voted on here is called County Ordinance 6088. It says
the funds from the tax will, “deposit...into the County General Fund” and “shall be
available...for any lawful expenditure.”

In the past, such as with measure M, the County has chosen a “Specific Tax” to
place on the ballot.

Those require two-thirds, or 67%, majority vote to pass and importantly restrict
how the money raised will be used. Elected officials are required to specify in the
ballot measure on what projects and programs it will be spent.

Obviously the County chose this route because it is easier to pass requiring only a
simple majority.

We have elected officials taking the easy way out.

//

This began as a “roads tax” and has morphed over time to one that specifies “public
safety” and the standard catch-all “essential services.” This does not guarantee road
repairs and has prompted concerned voters to label it “bait and switch.”

It is also well known the County has a generous employee pension plan that has a
significant funding deficit. Probably it is fair to say the drain the pensions have on
the General Fund have a role in the County’s motivation to enact this new tax.

The moneyed, wealthy elite of this county have a real penchant for regressive taxes.
Vote No on this General Tax! We deserve guarantees as to how our money will be
used.13

—Michael Hilber, secretary of the Redwood Empire Tax Committee^

The following statement was submitted as the official rebuttal to the argument in
favor of Measure A:

Don’t be fooled by empty promises that Measure A is a roads tax intended to repair
aging and crumbling roads. The tax would be just another general purpose tax to be
divvied up among the county and the cities where it may be spent in any manner
county or city officials may choose. In fact, this tax is expressly slated to pay for a
broad range of purposes including the catch-all “other essential services.”

True, Measure A was first proposed last year as a replacement for declining
gasoline taxes that are used for road maintenance. But the Board of Supervisors has
since amended the language of the ballot measure to place public safety (read
“salaries and pensions”) at the top of the list. The other listed uses are transparently
pitched to appeal to various voter blocks. There are no assurances that any of the
money will be spent for any of the uses listed.

Is this new tax really necessary? As the economy rebounds from the recession, the
county and cities have reaped substantially more tax revenues - property taxes, sales
taxes, hotel taxes. The county has enjoyed a 6% increase in tax revenues this past
year. Cities within the county have enjoyed similar growth in revenue. We do need
our roads repaired, and quickly. We do not need ambiguous promises.

Vote No on Measure A.13

—Timothy Hannan, president of the Sonoma County Taxpayers' Association131