CITY ATTORNEY IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

In 2009, San Mateo voters approved a ballot measure to authorize a 1/4-cent tax
on sales to be levied within the City of San Mateo. This 1/4-cent tax on sales was
approved as a “general tax,” meaning that the revenue raised from the tax goes into the
City’s general fund. This revenue may not be appropriated by any other governmental
agency. This revenue may be used for any municipal governmental purpose. Municipal
governmental purposes include police and fire protection, library services, public works,
street maintenance and repair, programs for seniors, parks and recreation services, and
other governmental functions and services. The measure does not bind the City to use
the proceeds of the tax for any particular services, facilities, or programs. Under the
terms of the 2009 ballot measure, the City was granted the authority to collect the 1/4-
cent tax on sales until March 31, 2018.

If approved by a majority of voters, Measure S would make two changes to the
law enacted by the voters in 2009. First, the law would be changed to authorize the City
of San Mateo to continue to collect the 1/4-cent tax on sales until March 31, 2048. The
second change would be to establish a citizen’s committee comprised of five residents to
oversee the receipt and expenditure of this tax revenue. This committee would be
charged with reviewing information on the amount of tax generated and how it was used
as described in the annual auditor’s report. The committee would also be charged with
making recommendations to the city council on the use of the tax revenue. The tax rate
approved by the voters in 2009 will not be changed if Measure S is approved.

State law authorizes the City of San Mateo to extend the authority to levy the 1/4-
cent tax on sales (technically referred to as a transactions and use tax) following
approval by two-thirds of the city council and a majority of the voters voting in an election
on that issue. The San Mateo City Council unanimously approved extending the
authority to levy this tax on July 20, 2015.

A YES vote approves the measure.

A NO vote rejects the measure.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure S. If you desire a copy of
the ordinance that is the subject of this measure, it may be found on the City’s
website www.citvofsanmateo.org or please call the San Mateo City Clerk’s Office
at (650) 522-7042 and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you.

Respectfully submitted,

Shawn M. Mason
City Attorney

City of San Mateo Sales Tax
Continuation, Measure S (November

2015)

Following California’s 2018 initiative process?

Subscribe to the California Counter

Get weekly updates from Ballotpedia on: actions by the state legislature, new filings, related lawsuits,

breaking news emails & more.

Click here and start your free trial.

Voting on taxes

Ballot measures

By state
By year
Not on ballot

TshowlLocal
Measure info

Amount: 0.25% continuation
Expires: 30 years Purpose: General

A sales tax continuation measure was on the ballot for San Mateovoters in San
Mateo County. California, on November 3. 2015. It was approved.

Measure S authorized the city to continue to levy its 0.25 percent local sales tax for 30
years. The tax was designed as a general tax, with revenue deposited into the general
fund to be used for any government purpose. This quarter-cent sales tax was approved
by voters in 2009 under the name Measure L and was set to expire on March 31,2018.
Measure S was also designed to implement an oversight committee to monitor the
revenue from Measure S and keep track of the expenditure of the revenue.111

Measure S kept the total sales tax rate in the city at 9.25 percent—7.5 percent
mandated by the state, a 1.5 percent county tax and the city's 0.25 percent tax. Without
the approval of Measure S, the total sales tax rate in the city would have dropped to 9
percent at the end of March 2018.m

| Election results

San Mateo, Measure S

Result	Votes	Percentage

V'Yes	11,037	69.91%
No	4,750	30.09%

Election results from	San	Mateo	Co

| Text of measure

Ballot question

The following question appeared on the ballot:131

U To continue locally controlled funding to maintain services and improve

infrastructure, including: police patrols and gang prevention; street, sidewalk, and
pothole repair; 9-1-1 response times and emergency medical services, fire
prevention; senior, teen, and children's programs; parks, paths and playfields,
library hours; and other city services; shall San Mateo extend the existing voter-
approved quarter-cent sales tax for 30 years without increasing current tax rates
with citizen oversight of how proceeds are spent?141

Impartial analysis

The following impartial analysis of Measure S was prepared by the office of the city
attorney:

In 2009, San Mateo voters approved a ballot measure to authorize a 1/4-cent tax
on sales to be levied within the City of San Mateo. This 1/4-cent tax on sales was
approved as a “general tax,” meaning that the revenue raised from the tax goes

into the City’s general fund. This revenue may not be appropriated by any other
governmental agency. This revenue may be used for any municipal governmental
purpose. Municipal governmental purposes include police and fire protection,
library services, public works, street maintenance and repair, programs for
seniors, parks and recreation services, and other governmental functions and
services. The measure does not bind the City to use the proceeds of the tax for
any particular services, facilities, or programs. Under the terms of the 2009 ballot
measure, the City was granted the authority to collect the 1/4- cent tax on sales
until March 31, 2018.

If approved by a majority of voters, Measure S would make two changes to the
law enacted by the voters in 2009. First, the law would be changed to authorize
the City of San Mateo to continue to collect the 1/4-cent tax on sales until March
31, 2048. The second change would be to establish a citizen’s committee
comprised of five residents to oversee the receipt and expenditure of this tax
revenue. This committee would be charged with reviewing information on the
amount of tax generated and how it was used as described in the annual auditor’s
report. The committee would also be charged with making recommendations to
the city council on the use of the tax revenue. The tax rate approved by the voters
in 2009 will not be changed if Measure S is approved.

State law authorizes the City of San Mateo to extend the authority to levy the 1/4-
cent tax on sales (technically referred to as a transactions and use tax) following
approval by two-thirds of the city council and a majority of the voters voting in
an election on that issue. The San Mateo City Council unanimously approved
extending the authority to levy this tax on July 20, 2015.

A YES vote approves the measure.

A NO vote rejects the measure.111

—San Mateo City Attorney Shawn M. Mason111

| Support

Supporters

The following individuals signed the official argument in favor of Measure S:121

•	Carole Groom, San Mateo County supervisor

•	Sheryl Angeles, president/CEO of the San Mateo Chamber of Commerce

•	Anna Kuhre, public works commissioner

•	Brian Kelly, retired fire chief

•	Rosalyn Koo, a senior and taxpayer

Arguments in favor

Supporters of Measure S argued that Measure S was necessary to maintain the
public services in San Mateo and would not raise the taxes. Supporters said the
revenue from Measure S would help improve the city's streets, continue emergency
medical services and police protection services, and maintain senior and children
services. Supporters also claimed that Measure S included strict fiscal
accountability.131

Official argument

The official ballot argument in support of Measure S can be read here.

| Opposition

Opponents

Mark W.A. Hinkle, the president of the Silicon Valley Taxpayers Association, signed
the official argument in opposition to Measure S.131

The Republican Party of San Mateo County also voted to endorse a "no" vote on
Measure S.®

Arguments against

Official argument

The following official argument was submitted in opposition to Measure S:

“Sales taxes are among the most regressive forms of taxation. Consumers with
moderate or low incomes have to sacrifice much larger portions of their incomes
on sales taxes than do wealthy consumers”.

(according to Robert Reich, former Secretary of Labor under President Clinton,
and presently Professor of Public Policy at UC Berkeley, in an NPR interview)

The San Mateo County sales tax rate of 9% is already high - only Alameda has a
higher county tax rate.

Does anyone seriously believe that this drastic sales tax increase would not
impact City businesses? Of course it would!

Many folks are already shopping online to avoid local sales taxes. Another local
sales tax increase will just drive more business to online stores instead of local
brick and mortar stores. That’s bad for local businesses and the local jobs they
create.

59

The economy is struggling to rebound and a sales tax increase will hurt that
recovery.

In 1960, sales tax was only 3%. Raising taxes never stopped politicians from
claiming they need more money. But higher taxes make it harder for regular
people to make ends meet.

As we endure this continuing economic recession, the poorest among us need
every single penny to get by.

Vote your conscience.

Vote for those hardest hit in these tough times.

Now is not the time to raise taxes on anyone, especially those who cannot afford
it.

Vote NO on Measure S.

There are other, better ways, to fund City government than through increasing the
sales tax. Vote No on Measure S and force the politicians to meet financial
challenges in the same way we do - by cutting costs and not spending more than
you earn.111

—Mark W.A. Hinkle, the president of the Silicon Valley Taxpayers Association^

| Path to the ballot

Measure S was put on the ballot by a vote of the San Mateo City Council.01

| Related measures

•	City of San Mateo Sales Tax Increase. Measure L (November 2009)

| Recent news

The link below is to the most recent stories in a Google news search for the
terms San Mateo sales tax Measure S. These results are automatically generated
from Google. Ballotpedia does not curate or endorse these articles.

City of San Mateo Sales Tax Continuation. Measure S
(November 2015) - Google News

| See also

•	Sales tax in California

•	City tax on the ballot

•	Local sales tax on the ballot

•	San Mateo County. California ballot measures

•	November 3. 2015 ballot measures in California

| External links

Suggest a link

•	San Mateo County. Elections Office website

| Footnotes

1 ^ jumpupto io u 12	Mateo Elections Office,"Impartial analysis of Measure

S," accessed September 29. 2015
2. Jump upll Sa/e-fex. "San Mateo, CA Sales Tax Rate," accessed September
29. 2015

3 /[\ jumpuptoao an a2 as	Smart Voter,“Measures appearing on the ballot on

November 3. 2015.” accessed September 29. 2015

4.	/|\ jump up toio 4i 42 N0te: This text is quoted verbatim from the original source.
Any inconsistencies are attributed to the original source.

5. 'b Jump up t0 — — Silicon Valley Taxpayers Association,"Argument Against San
Mateo %% Sales Tax: Measure S," accessed October 24, 2015

Only the first few references on this page are shown above. Click to show less.

https://ballotpedia.org/City of San Mateo Sales Tax Continuation, Measure S (November 2
015)