Ballot question

The question on the ballot:[i]

Shall a measure be adopted to assess a special tax of $65 per annum per
parcel regardless of the size for up to two parcels owned by each unique
landowner regardless of which county the parcels are located, the special
tax will be authorized only if the Southern Cascades Community Services
District is formed and is collected in the same manner as taxes on real
property, commencing in the fiscal year after which the voters have
authorized the special tax, with the revenue to be used for local
ambulance, emergency medical response and training and any lawful
purpose of the Southern Cascades Community Services District?[3]

Impartial analysis

The following impartial analysis of Measure C was provided by the offices of the county
counsels:[2]

This is a ballot measure to determine if the voters in the northwestern area
of Lassen County and the southwestern area of Modoc County desire to
fund a service district to provide locally based emergency response,
ambulance, training and life support services.

The boundaries of the proposed service area include the communities of
Bieber, Lookout, Nubieber, Adin and the Termo area, consisting of 1,670
square miles, and including all of Big Valley.

The territory currently does not have locally based ambulance, advanced
life support, and emergency medical services. This proposal is to provide
those locally based services within this area.

Measure C will authorize establishment of a special tax to fund services of
the Southern Cascades Community Services Distrct. This measure will
take effect beginning with the 2015- 2016 fiscal year. The special tax shall
be used solely for district activites.

LAFCO determined it was necessary for the district to be financially viable.

To form the district, a special tax is required to be passed by voters
residing in the territory. The proceeds from this special tax will go to
operate the district on an ongoing basis The special tax will be $65 for
each unique parcel ownership, up to two parcels per landowner.

This measure will pass if two-thirds of the registered voters of the
proposed district boundaries cast a “Yes” vote. If the measure does not
pass, the tax will not be established and the district will not be formed.[3]

—Margaret Long, Modoc County Counsel, and Robert M. Burns, Lassen
County Counsels

Support

The supporters and arguments in favor of Measure B and Measure C were identical.

Supporters

The following individuals signed the official argument in support of Measures B and C:[4]

•	Clinton J. Davis

•	William Wells

•	John E. Landoski

•	Ryan Harper

Arguments in favor

The following statement was submitted as the official argument in favor of Measures B
and C:[4]

An Advanced Life Support Ambulance(ALS) is not stationed in our
communities. Do you know the impact this has had on our area?

According to official 911 records for Modoc and Lassen Counties for 2014,

136 individuals suffered an injury or sudden illness, waiting up to an
hour-fifteen minutes for ambulance arrival. The enemy of saving lives is
time and distance. You probably know someone that died waiting for an
Ambulance this year. Is this what you want for your loved ones? We can
change these statistics by voting YES on Measures B and C.

Because we live in an isolated area with limited medical resources to
handle trauma and sudden illness we need timely access to an
Ambulance which provides more than just transportation to the hospital.

An ALS Ambulance is an Emergency Room on wheels in which
Emergency Medical Services personnel serves as an extension of the ER
doctor. YES on Measure B approves the formation of the Southern
Cascades Community Services District (CSD). The CSD is essential to
securing financial stability and local control for an ALS Ambulance
Service. The CSD shall be governed by a Board of locally elected
volunteers charged with oversight of Ambulance operations including
administration, procurement and maintenance of equipment, training and
certification of personnel.

YES on Measure C provides for a special tax to property owners within
the boundaries of the CSD. This tax equates to less than $6 per month
for a single parcel or $12 per month for two or more parcels. This tax can
NOT increase without a 2/3 vote.

Passage of Measures B and C will re-establish timely ambulance
response and provide critical lifesaving treatment and transport.[3]

—Clinton J. Davis, William Wells, John E. Landoski and Ryan Harper^

Opposition

No official arguments in opposition to Measures B and C were submitted. If you have an
argument you would like to see posted here, please email the Local Ballot Measures
Project staff writer.