VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS
(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

COTATI-ROHNERT PARK UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
MEASURE B

To maintain quality education without increasing taxes and preserve local

B funding that cannot be taken by the State, shall Cotati-Rohnert Park Unified
School District maintain reading, writing, math and science programs;
attract and retain qualified teachers; keep school libraries open; and
prepare students for college and careers, by renewing the expiring parcel tax at the
current rate for eight years, with exemptions for senior citizens, independent citizen
oversight, no money for administrators’ salaries and all funds staying local?

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE B

The Cotati-Rohnert Park Unified School District has ordered an election on a special tax measure to
fund identified educational programs. The California Constitution and state law authorize a school
district to levy a special tax upon approval of two-thirds of the voting electorate.

This measure proposes a special tax of $89 per year per parcel of land in the District, beginning on
July 1,2017 and continuing for eight years. The stated purposes of the special parcel tax are identi-
fied in the measure, and include preserving academic programs, attracting and retaining teachers
and staff, keeping libraries open, and minimizing class size increases. If Measure B is approved, the
proceeds could only be used for the purposes set forth in the full text of the measure. No portion of
the proceeds may be spent on administrative salaries.

The tax would apply to each parcel of taxable land in the District, with some exemptions described
below. A parcel would be defined as any unit of land in the District that receives a separate tax bill
from the Sonoma County Tax Collector. The tax would be collected at the same time and in the same
manner as regular property taxes.

The tax would not apply to parcels that are exempt from property taxes. Multiple parcels that are con-
tiguous, under common ownership, and constitute one economic unit would comprise a single parcel
for purposes of the special parcel tax.

Under procedures adopted by the District, the District may grant an exemption from the special tax to
parcels owned by one or more persons who are aged 65 years or older who occupy the parcel as a
principal residence, who receive Supplemental Security Income for a disability and occupy the par-
cel as a principal residence, or who receive Social Security Disability Insurance benefits, occupy the
parcel as a principal residence, and have a yearly income that does not exceed 250 percent of the
2012 federal poverty guidelines issued by the federal Department of Health and Human Services.

If approved, the proceeds of the special parcel tax would be deposited into a special account. The
District would prepare and file with the District Board of Trustees an annual report regarding the
funds and expenditures from the special tax. The Board of Trustees would also provide for the cre-
ation of an Independent Citizens’ Oversight Committee to review the expenditure of funds, and also
report annually to the Board and public.

The District also proposes to increase its appropriations limit as necessary to allow use of the
proceeds of the special parcel tax.

CONT. NEXT PAGE

49-501

9330

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS
(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE B. CONT.

If two-thirds of the voters in the Cotati-Rohnert Park Unified School District who vote this measure
vote “yes,” the measure will pass and the special tax will be levied.

BRUCE D. GOLDSTEIN
County Counsel

By: si Jeffrey M. Brax

Chief Deputy County Counsel

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE B

Vote Yes on B to support quality education without increasing taxes.

Student achievement in Rohnert Park and Cotati schools continues to increase. Our graduation
rates have risen for the past several years, and more of our students are graduating ready for college
and careers.

Measure B continues to provide the locally controlled funding needed to maintain our quality
schools - without raising taxes. By law, all money raised by Measure B goes to our local schools -
Sacramento can’t touch a dime.

Voting Yes on B will: maintain math, science, reading and writing programs; attract and retain quali-
fied teachers; keep school libraries open; support programs that prepare students for college and
careers; maintain reduced class sizes and protect art and music instruction.

Measure B is fiscally accountable. No money can be used for administrator salaries, an independent
Citizens’ Oversight Committee ensures that funds continue to be spent as promised and senior
citizens are eligible for an exemption.

A Yes vote on B means smaller class sizes, with students getting more individual attention from their
teachers, as well as maintaining the outstanding art, music and other electives critical to a
well-rounded education. Without Measure B funding, our schools will have to make cuts that could
mean teacher layoffs, increased class sizes, the closure of school libraries and computer labs and
cuts to programs that help prepare students for college.

We are proud of the gains our schools have made in the past few years. Voting Yes on B will ensure
students continue to receive the quality education they need to succeed in college and beyond.

Join parents, teachers and community leaders in supporting our Rohnert Park and Cotati schools
and students without raising taxes - vote Yes on B.

si John Dell’Osso	si	Nicole	Lahee

Former Cotati Mayor	Parent	Volunteer

si Prudence K. Draper	si	Fred	T.	Brokaw

City Historian, 65 Yr-Resident	Small	Business Owner

si Lansing L. Lowery
Cotati-Rohnert Park Unified School District Teacher

NO ARGUMENT WAS SUBMITTED AGAINST MEASURE B

Sonoma County

49-502

9330

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS
(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE B
EXHIBIT B

QUALITY TEACHER AND ACADEMIC INSTRUCTION PRESERVATION MEASURE

RECITALS

The Governing Board (“Board”) of the Cotati-Rohnert Park Unified School District (“District”)
has established the goals of improving academic performance and the quality of education for all
children in the District so that they are prepared for college and to compete for good jobs.

Since 2012, our community has supported Rohnert Park and Cotati schools with locally con-
trolled education funding. Measure D, which provides $1.2 million per year, is set to expire soon.

If local education funding is not renewed, the district will have to make drastic budget cuts. To
fill a budget gap of this size, teachers would be laid off, class sizes would increase, school libraries
and computer labs would close and programs that prepare students for college would be cut. These
are many of the same cuts the district was facing when local voters first passed Measure D to provide
stable, local education funding that could not be taken by the State.

The Cotati-Rohnert Park Quality Teacher and Academic Instruction Preservation Measure
would provide stable, local and predictable funding that our schools can count on to protect
high-quality instructional programs.

This measure would enhance local control of Cotati-Rohnert Park schools, make our schools
less dependent on Sacramento, and provide vital funding to support students and education at a
time when they need it most.

By law, all funds from this local funding measure must be used to protect the specified pro-
grams in Cotati-Rohnert Park schools and cannot be taken away by the State. Strict accountability is
mandatory, including independent citizen oversight and annual audits to ensure funds are spent as
promised.

TERMS

To maintain quality education without increasing taxes and preserve local funding that cannot
be taken by the State, shall Cotati-Rohnert Park Unified School District maintain reading, writing,
math and science programs; attract and retain qualified teachers; keep school libraries open; and
prepare students for college and careers, by renewing the expiring parcel tax at the current rate for
eight years, with exemptions for senior citizens, independent citizen oversight, no money for admin-
istrators’ salaries and all funds staying local?

Moneys raised under this Measure shall be authorized to be used only for the following pur-
poses in accordance with priorities established by the Board and to the extent of available funds:

•	Preserve reading and writing programs

•	Preserve math and science programs

•	Attract and retain qualified and experienced teachers and staff

•	Keep school libraries open and information technology services available for students

CONT. NEXT PAGE

49-503

9330

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS
(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE B. CONT.

•	Support programs that prepare students for college

•	Protect art and music instruction for a well-rounded education

•	Provide 21 st century vocational education to prepare graduates for a competitive job market

•	Minimize class size increases to ensure students receive individual attention from teachers

•	Minimize further budget cuts resulting from reductions in state funding for local schools

•	No parcel tax funds will be spent on administrative salaries.

A.	Amount and Basis of Tax

The special tax shall be $89 per Parcel of Taxable Real Property beginning in July 1,2017,
and continuing for a period of eight (8) years.

To the extent allowed by law “Parcel of Taxable Real Property” shall be defined as:

(a)	Any unit of real property in the District that receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem
property taxes from the County Tax Collector.

(b)	All property that is otherwise exempt from or upon which are levied no ad valorem prop-
erty taxes in any year shall not be considered a Parcel of Taxable Real Property for
purposes of the special tax in such year.

(c)	Multiple parcels which are contiguous, under common ownership, and that constitute
one economic unit, meaning that they have the same primary purpose as the principal
parcel and are not separate and distinct properties that may be independently devel-
oped or sold, shall comprise a single Parcel of Taxable Real Property for purposes of
the special tax.

If any portion of this definition is deemed contrary to law, the Board declares and the voters by
approving the Measure concur, that every other section and part of this definition has independent
value, and the Board and voters would have adopted each other section and part hereof regardless
of every other section or part hereof. If all sections or parts of this definition are deemed contrary to
law, “Parcel of Taxable Real Property” shall be defined as any real property in the District assigned
an assessor’s parcel number.

B.	Exemptions

Under procedures adopted by the District, upon application or confirmation of a continuing
exemption, an exemption from payment of the special tax may be granted on any parcel owned by
one or more persons who is/are:

1.	Sixty-five (65) years of age or over and occupying said parcel as a principal residence
(“Senior Citizen Exemption”); or

2.	Receiving Supplemental Security Income for a disability, regardless of age and occupy-
ing said parcel as a principal residence (“SSI Exemption”); or

CONT. NEXT PAGE

49-504

9330

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS
(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE B, CONT.

3. Receiving Social Security Disability Insurance benefits, regardless of age and occupy-
ing said parcel as a principal residence, whose yearly income does not exceed 250
percent of the 2012 federal poverty guidelines issued by the United States Department
of Health and Human Services (“SSDI Exemption”).

C.	Claims / Exemption Procedures

With respect to all general property tax matters within its jurisdiction, the County Tax Collector
or other appropriate County tax official shall make all final determinations of tax exemption or relief
for any reason, and that decision shall be final and binding. With respect to matters specific to the
levy of the special tax, including the Senior Citizen Exemption, the SSI Exemption, the SSDI Exemp-
tion, the application of the definition of “Parcel of Taxable Real Property” to any parcel(s), the legality
or validity of the special tax, or any other disputed matter specific to the application of the special tax,
the decisions of the District shall be final and binding. The procedures described herein, and any
additional procedures established by the Board shall be the exclusive claims procedure for claimants
seeking an exemption, refund, reduction, or re-computation of the special tax. Whether any particular
claim is to be resolved by the District or by the County shall be determined by the District, in coordi-
nation with the County as necessary.

D.	Appropriations Limit

Pursuant to California Constitution article XIIIB and applicable laws, the appropriations limit
for the District will be adjusted periodically by the aggregate sum collected by levy of this special tax.

E.	Mandatory Accountability Protections

1.	Specific Purposes. The proceeds of the special tax shall be applied only to the specific
purposes identified above.

2.	Annual Reports. The proceeds of the special tax shall be deposited into an account,
which shall be kept separate and apart from other accounts of the District, pursuant to
the Government Code. No later than December 31 of each year while the tax is in effect,
the District shall prepare and file with the Board a report detailing the amount of funds
collected and expended during the prior fiscal year, and the status of any project autho-
rized to be funded by this measure. The report may relate to the calendar year, fiscal
year, or other appropriate annual period, as said officer shall determine, and may be
incorporated into or filed with the annual budget, audit, or other appropriate routine report
to the Board.

3.	Oversight Committee. An oversight committee of citizens shall be appointed or desig-
nated by the Board to ensure that the special tax proceeds are spent for their authorized
purposes, and to report annually to the Board and the public regarding the expenditure
of such funds. The Board shall provide by resolution for the composition, duties, funding,
and other necessary information regarding the committee’s formation and operation.

CONT. NEXT PAGE

49-505

9330

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS
(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE B, CONT.

F.	Protection of Funding

Current law forbids any decrease in State or federal funding to the District resulting from the
adoption of an education parcel tax. However, if any such funding is reduced or affected because of
the adoption of this local funding measure, then the Board may reduce the amount of the special
taxes levied as necessary in order to restore such State or federal funding and/or maximize the Dis-
trict’s fiscal position for the benefit of the educational program. As a result, whether directly or indirectly,
no funding from this measure may be taken away by the State or federal governments.

G.	Severability

The Board hereby declares, and the voters by approving this Measure concur, that every sec-
tion and part of this Measure has independent value, and the Board and the voters would have
adopted each provision hereof regardless of every other provision hereof. Upon approval of this
Measure by the voters, should any part of the Measure or taxing formula be found by a court of com-
petent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, all remaining parts of the Measure or taxing formula
hereof shall remain in full force and effect to the fullest extent allowed by law.

49-506

9330