001

Contra Costa County

Condado de Contra Costa

Voter Information Guide and
Sample Ballot

Folleto de Information al Votante y Muestra de Balota

Refugio Valley Park, Hercules

City of Hercules Special Election
Tuesday, November 3, 2015
Polls open at 7 am and close at 8 pm

Election Especial de la Ciudad de Hercules
Martes, Noviembre 3,2015

Lugares de votacion abren a las 7 am y cierran a las 8 pm

Joseph E. Canciamilla
County Clerk-Recorder and Registrar of Voters
Secretario-Escribano del Condado y Registrador de Votantes

555 Escobar Street, Martinez, CA 94553
(925) 335-7800 | www.cocovote.us

http://www.cocovote.us/

MEASURE B
CITY OF HERCULES

To maintain Hercules' financial stability; enhance fiscal
accountability; prevent cuts to police services/crime
prevention programs, street/pothole repair, youth/senior
programs, and other essential City services; and maintain
the number of police officers patrolling neighborhood
streets and the local Hercules Police Department, shall
the City of Hercules continue its existing, voter-approved
one-half cent sales tax, with citizens' oversight, audits,
and funding that cannot be taken by Sacramento, and
without increasing the current tax rate?

CITY ATTORNEY'S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF
MEASURE B

The City Council of the City of Hercules has placed
Measure B on the November 3, 2015 ballot. If
approved by the voters, Measure B would generate
additional municipal revenues by extending the existing
voter-approved half cent (0.50%) local add-on in the
transactions and use (sales) tax set to expire in October
2016.

Measure B would retain the voter approved half cent
(0.50%) add-on approved by Hercules voters on June 5,
2012 until such time as the City Council, either on its own
initiative or at the recommendation of the City’s Finance
Commission, determined that it is no longer necessary
because the City has met its goal of achieving long term
financial stability with adequate financial reserves.

If adopted by voters, the continuation of the existing half
cent (0.50%) voter add-on would generate additional
general purpose local funding to stabilize the City’s
finances beyond 2016.

Because Measure B does not limit the use of tax
revenue to a specific purpose, the City may use the
funds for a variety of purposes, including but not limited
to maintaining financial stability and accountability;
maintaining the Hercules Police Department;
maintaining neighborhood police patrols; improving
9-1-1 response times; expanding neighborhood crime
prevention programs; attracting business to Hercules;
and preventing cuts to street maintenance.

Measure B is not a property tax on homeowners.
Technically, the existing “sales tax” is a combination
of “sales and use tax” and “transactions and use tax.”
Retailers collect the tax at the time of sale and remit
the funds to the State Board of Equalization, which
administers the tax.

The Measure includes fiscal accountability provisions,
requiring mandatory financial audits and Independent
Citizen Oversight by the Finance Commission to ensure
that tax revenues are spent by the City in a manner
consistent with the measure.

A “Yes” vote is a vote to approve the continuation of the
half cent (0.50%) transaction and use add-on originally
approved by Hercules voters in June, 2012 until such
time as the City Council, either on its own initiative or at
the recommendation of the City’s Finance Commission,
determines that it is no longer necessary because the
City has met its goal of achieving long term financial
stability with adequate financial reserves.

A “No” vote is a vote against the continuation of the half
cent (0.50%) sales tax measure past its expiration date
of October 2016.

Measure B would be approved if it receives a simple
majority of “Yes” votes.

DATED: August 20, 2015

J. Patrick Tang, City Attorney
City of Hercules

CC 001-002

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
MEASURE B

ARGUMENT AGAINST
MEASURE B

Want to keep Hercules a community where you want
to live and raise your family?

Did you know that Hercules is currently the 19th safest
city in California?

It wasn’t too long ago that we elected a new City
Council, hired new City administrators, and established
a permanent Citizens’ Finance Commission to improve
fiscal and government transparency, restoring our
confidence and trust!

To maintain our positive momentum, without raising
tax rates - Vote YES on B & C!

YES on B & C maintains our quality of life, financial
stability, and neighborhood safety!

Voting YES on B & C does not create any new
taxes. It simply continues existing funding adopted by
Hercules voters to maintain OUR essential services
and financial stability.

Voting YES on B & C maintains the local Hercules
Police Department, including:

•	Maintaining the number of police officers
patrolling neighborhood streets

•	Improving 9-1-1 response times

•	Expanding neighborhood crime prevention
programs

YES on B & C attracts business to Hercules.

YES on B & C prevents cuts to street maintenance.

Again, voting YES on B & C does NOT raise your tax
rates. By law, NO taxes can be increased without voter
approval.

Not a dime of the funding generated by Measures B &
C can be taken by Sacramento politicians!

YES on B & C includes tough Fiscal Accountability
safeguards, with Independent Citizens’ Oversight,
mandatory annual financial audits and yearly reports
to the community to monitor spending—guaranteeing
funds continue to be spent responsibly and as
promised.

Join a unanimous Hercules Mayor and City Council,
police officers, local business owners, and community
leaders in voting YES on B & C to protect and maintain
the essential services that make our community a
safe, well-maintained place to live without raising
existing tax rates. For factual information, visit www.
ci.hercules.ca.us

Hercules Police Officers Association, Earnest Lee Taylor,
(Sergeant) President

Virgilio De La Vega, Chair, Finance Commission
Darrel J. Tucker, Former Mayor, 37 year resident
Lori Han, Treasurer of FHSC
Sylvia Villa Serrano, Executive Director Chamber

None filed.

CC 001-003

FULL TEXT OF
MEASURE B

EXHIBIT A

ORDINANCE NO.______________

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OF HERCULES AMENDING THE HERCULES
MUNICIPAL CODE BY CONTINUING A FOUR YEAR,
TEMPORARY TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX OF

0.50% (ONE HALF CENT) TO BE ADMINISTERED
BY THE STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION,
SAID TAX TO BE CONTINUED UNTIL SUCH TIME
AS THE CITY COUNCIL APPROVES FINANCE
COMMISSION FINDINGS THAT THE CITY HAS MET
ITS GOAL OF ACHIEVING LONG TERM FINANCIAL
STABILITY WITH ADEQUATE FINANCIAL
RESERVES

WHEREAS, in November 2012, the voters of
Hercules adopted a local revenue measure (“Measure
O”), to mitigate cuts to local services caused by State
takeaways and the Great Recession; and

WHEREAS, Measure O established a general
transactions and use tax (“sales tax”) of one-half of one
percent (0.5%), which is codified at Title 8, Chapter 9
of the Hercules Municipal Code; and

WHEREAS, the revenues raised by Measure
O have helped the City stay solvent during the period
since it was adopted; and

WHEREAS, unless the voters approve the
Measure O Continuation Measure, the temporary
general transactions and use tax (“sales tax”) of one-
half of one percent (0.5%) will automatically sunset
in 2016, four (4) years from the effective date of the
measure; and

WHEREAS, if this Continuation is adopted,
there is no increase in the sales tax rate Hercules
residents currently pay; and

WHEREAS, by law, all funds from a Measure
O Continuation Measure must stay in Hercules to
maintain local services and no funds can be taken by
Sacramento; and

WHEREAS, the Measure O Continuation
Measure requires independent Citizens’ Oversight by
the City’s Finance Commission, mandatory financial
audits, and yearly reports to the community to ensure
the funds are spent as promised; and

WHEREAS, the City wishes to continue to
address service priorities that the public has identified
as being important to them, such as maintaining the
number of police officers patrolling neighborhood
streets, improving 911 response times, expanding
neighborhood crime prevention programs, attracting
business to Hercules, and preventing cuts to street
maintenance; and

WHEREAS, the locally-controlled revenue
raised by Measure O have helped the City stay
solvent, reduce a $9 million dollar deficit, and improve
fiscal and government accountability during the period
since it was adopted; and

WHEREAS, the City’s Financial Forecast
estimates that if Measure O expires, commencing
in Fiscal Year 2016-17, an estimated $700,000 in
annual budget reductions will be required to address
the decline in City revenues currently received from
Measure O, which in turn will require the City to make
severe cuts to the services it currently provides,
adversely affecting public safety services including
police officers, crime investigation services, and
neighborhood police patrols, along with other City
services, such as road maintenance, youth sports and
recreation programs, city parks and playgrounds, and
senior services and the Senior Center; and

WHEREAS, a local revenue measure ensures
fiscal accountability by requiring independent citizens
oversight, mandatory financial audits, and yearly
reports to the community; and

WHEREAS, at its June 23, 2015 meeting, the
City Council adopted a budget for FY 2015-16 that
recognized the need for additional revenue to maintain
and preserve the level of services desired by residents
of the City; and

WHEREAS, at a public hearing on July 28, the
Council considered placing a measure on the ballot for
the November 3, 2015 General Election seeking voter
approval of an extension of Measure O; and

WHEREAS, after that hearing, the City
Council concluded that all of the information presented
indicated that, to maintain the revenue necessary to
preserve existing service levels, the Council should
ask the voters of the City to approve a continuation
of Measure O, continuing the current assessment of a
local transactions and use tax, the revenue from which
could be used to support general municipal services;
and

CC 001-004

WHEREAS, on the basis of the foregoing,
the City Council, by adopting Resolution 15-052,
determined that it was appropriate to place a measure
before the voters at the November 3, 2015 general
election regarding a continuation of the general
transactions and use (sales) tax originally authorized
by Measure O; and

WHEREAS, the tax, if approved to be
continued, would continue to be imposed on the sale
of tangible personal property and the storage, use, or
other consumption of such property, the tax rate would
continue to be one-half of one percent (0.5%) (a half
cent for each dollar) of the sales price of the property,
and the tax revenue would continue to be collected
by the State Board of Equalization and remitted to the
City; and

WHEREAS, The tax extension would be in
effect until the Finance Commission finds, and the
City Council approves by a 2/3 vote, that the City has
achieved long term financial stability with adequate
financial reserves.

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF
THE CITY OF HERCULES as follows:

1.	Purpose.

This Ordinance amends the Hercules Municipal
Code in order to continue a previously enacted
temporary transactions and use tax.

“CHAPTER 9. Temporary Transaction and Use
Tax

Sec. 8-9.01 Purpose and Operative Date.

(a)	The purpose of this Chapter is to continue the
retail transactions and use tax approved by the
electorate at the June 5, 2012 special election and
enacted pursuant to Ordinance 470, in accordance
with the provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with
Section 7251) of the Revenue and Taxation Code
and Section 7285.9 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 which
authorizes the City to adopt this tax if a majority of
the qualified voters of the City vote to approve the
imposition of the tax.

(b)	“Operative date” means the first day of the
first calendar quarter commencing more than
one hundred ten (110) days after the later of the
adoption of the ordinance codified in this Chapter,
the date of such adoption being as set forth below.

(c)	Prior to the operative date, the City shall
contract with the State Board of Equalization to

perform all functions incident to the administration
and operation of this transactions and use tax
chapter; provided, that if the City shall not have
contracted with the State Board of Equalization
prior to the operative date, it shall nevertheless
so contract and in such a case the operative date
shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter
following the execution of such a contract.

(1)	To adopt a retail transactions and use
tax ordinance that incorporates provisions
identical to those of the sales and use tax
law of the State of California insofar as those
provisions are not inconsistent with the
requirements and limitations contained in Part

1.6	of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code.

(2)	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax
ordinance that imposes a tax and provides a
measure therefor that can be administered
and collected by the State Board of
Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as
fully as practicable to, and requires the least
possible deviation from, the existing statutory
and administrative procedures followed by the
State Board of Equalization in administering
and collecting the California State sales and
use taxes.

(3)	To adopt a retail transactions and use
tax ordinance that can be administered in a
manner that will be, to the greatest degree
possible, consistent with the provisions of Part

1.6	of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, minimize the cost of collecting the
transactions and use taxes, and at the same
time, minimize the burden of record keeping
upon persons subject to taxation under the
provisions of this Chapter. (Ord. 481 § 3 (part),
2014: Ord. 470 § 2 (part), 2012)

(d)	Commencing on the operative date, the
previously enacted retail transactions and use
tax approved by the voters in 2012 and enacted
pursuant to Ordinance 470 is hereby continued
until such time as the Finance Commission, created
pursuant to Title 2, Chapter 2, Article 6, determines
that the City has met its goal of achieving long term
financial stability with adequate financial reserves.
Upon a finding by a 2/3 vote of the Council that the
Finance Commission has adequately determined
that the City has achieved long term financial
stability with adequate financial reserves, the City
Council shall enact legislation to terminate the

CC 001-005

temporary transactions and use tax, termination
to be effective no later than one year from date of
passage. Notwithstanding this Section, the City
Council retains independent authority to repeal
this Chapter pursuant to Sec. 8-9.09(b).

Sec. 8-9.02 Transactions Tax Rate.

Commencing on the operative date for the
privilege of selling tangible personal property at
retail, the previously enacted tax approved by the
voters in 2012 and enacted pursuant to Ordinance
470 is hereby continued subject to termination
pursuant to Sec. 8-9.01 (d) upon all retailers in
the incorporated territory of the City at a rate of
fifty one-hundredths of one percent (0.50%) of
the gross receipt of any retailer from the sale of
all tangible personal property sold at retail in said
territory on and after the operative date of this
Chapter. Such tax shall be in addition to any other
transaction (sales) tax imposed by this Code or
applicable State law. (Ord. 481 § 3 (part), 2014:
Ord. 470 § 2 (part), 2012)

Sec. 8-9.03 Place of Sale.

For the purposes of this Chapter, all retail sales
are consummated at the place of business of the
retailer unless the tangible personal property sold
is delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-
of-State destination or to a common carrier for
delivery to an out-of-State destination. The gross
receipts from such sales shall include delivery
charges when such charges are subject to the
State sales and use tax, regardless of the place to
which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has
no permanent place of business in the State or has
more than one (1) place of business, the place or
places at which the retail sales are consummated
shall be determined under rules and regulations to
be prescribed and adopted by the State Board of
Equalization. (Ord. 481 § 3 (part), 2014: Ord. 470
§2 (part), 2012)

Sec. 8-9.04 Use Tax Rate.

Commencing on the operative date the previously
enacted temporary retail transactions and use
tax approved by the voters in 2012 and enacted
pursuant to Ordinance 470 is hereby continued
subject to termination pursuant to Sec. 8-9.01 (d)
on the storage, use or other consumption in the
City of tangible personal property purchased from
any retailer on or after the operative date of this
Chapter for storage, use, or other consumption in
the incorporated territory of the City at a rate of
fifty one-hundredths of one percent (0.50%) of the
sales price of the property. The sales price shall

include delivery charges when such charges are
subject to State sales or use tax, regardless of the
place to which delivery is made. Such tax shall
be in addition to any other use tax imposed by
this Code or applicable to State law. (Ord. 481 § 3
(part), 2014: Ord. 470 § 2 (part), 2012)

Sec. 8-9.05 Adoption of Provisions of State
Law.

Except as otherwise provided in this Chapter, and
except insofar as they are inconsistent with the
provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2of the Revenue
and Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part
1 (commencing with Section 60011 of Division 2
of the Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby
adopted and made a part of this Chapter as
though fully set forth herein. (Ord. 481 § 3 (part),
2014: Ord. 470 § 2 (part), 2012)

Sec. 8-9.06 Limitations on Adoption of State
Law and Collection of Use Taxes.

In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code:

(a)	Wherever the State of California is named or
referred to as the taxing agency, the name of this
City shall be substituted therefor. However, the
substitution shall not be made when:

(1)	The word “State” is used as a part of the title
of the State Controller, State Treasurer, State
Board of Control, State Board of Equalization,
State Treasury, or the Constitution of the State
of California;

(2)	The result of that substitution would require
action to be taken by or against this City or any
agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than
by or against the State Board of Equalization,
in performing the functions incident to the
administration or operation of this Chapter;

(3)	In those sections, including, but not
necessarily limited to, sections referring to the
exterior boundaries of the State of California,
where the result of the substitution would be to:

A. Provide an exemption from this tax with
respect to certain sales, storage, use or other
consumption of tangible personal property
which would not otherwise be exempt from
this tax while such sales, storage, use or other
consumption remain subject to tax by the
State under the provisions of Part 1 of Division
2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code; or

CC 001-006

B. Impose this tax with respect to certain
sales, storage, use or other consumption of
tangible personal property which would not
be subject to tax by the State under the said
provision of that code;

(4)	In Sections 6701. 6702 (except in the last
sentence thereof), 6711. 6715. 6737. 6797. or
6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

(b)	The word “City” shall be substituted for the
word “state” in the phrase “retailer engaged in
business in this state” in Section 6203 and in the
definition to that phrase in Section 6203. (Ord. 481
§ 3 (part), 2014: Ord. 470 § 2 (part), 2012)

Sec. 8-9.07 Permit Not Required.

If a seller’s permit has been issued to a retailer
under Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, an additional transactor’s permit shall not
be required by this Chapter. (Ord. 481 § 3 (part),
2014: Ord. 470 § 2 (part), 2012)

Sec. 8-9.08 Exemptions and Exclusions.

(a)	There shall be excluded from the measure of
the transactions tax and the use tax the amount
of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State
of California or by any city, city and county, or
county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform
Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the amount of
any State-administered transactions or use tax.

(b)	There are exempted from the computation of
the amount of transactions tax and gross receipts
from:

(1)	Sales of tangible personal property, other
than fuel or petroleum products, to operators
of aircraft to be used or consumed principally
outside the County in which the sale is made
and directly and exclusively in the use of
such aircraft as common carriers of persons
or property under the authority of the laws of
this State, the United States, or any foreign
government.

(2)	Sales of property to be used outside the
City which is shipped to a point outside the City,
pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery
to such point by the retailer or his agent or by
delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment
to a consignee at such point. For the purposes
of this subsection, delivery to a point outside the
City shall be satisfied:

A.	With respect to vehicles (other than
commercial vehicles) subject to registration
pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with
Section 40001 of Division 3 of the Vehicle
Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with
Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code,
and undocumented vessels registered under
Chapter 2 of Division 3.5 (commencing
with Section 98401 of the Vehicle Code by
registration to an out-of-City address and by a
declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by
the buyer, stating that such address is, in fact,
his or her principal place of residence; and

B.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by
registration to a place of business out of City
and declaration under penalty of perjury,
signed by the buyer, that the vehicle will be
operated from that address.

(3)	The sale of tangible personal property if the
seller is obligated to furnish the property for a
fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into
prior to the operative date of this Chapter.

(4)	A lease of tangible personal property which
is a continuing sale of such property, for any
period of time for which the lessor is obligated
to lease the property for an amount fixed by the
lease prior to the operative date of this Chapter.

(5)	For the purposes of subsections (b)(3) and

(4)	of this Section, the sale or lease of tangible
personal property shall be deemed not to be
obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any
period of time for which any party to the contract
or lease has the unconditional right to terminate
the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not
such right is exercised.

(c)	There are exempted from the use tax imposed
by this Chapter the storage, use or other
consumption in this City of tangible personal
property:

(1)	The gross receipts from the sale of which
have been subject to a transactions tax under
any State-administered transactions and use
tax article.

(2)	Other than fuel or petroleum products
purchased by operators of aircraft and used
or consumed by such operators directly and
exclusively in the use of such aircraft as

CC 001-007

common carriers of persons or property for hire
or compensation under a certificate of public
convenience and necessity issued pursuant
to the laws of this State, the United States, or
any foreign government. This exemption is in
addition to the exemptions provided in Sections
6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code of the State of California.

(3)	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the
property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract
entered into prior to the operative date of this
Chapter.

(4)	If the possession of, or the exercise of
any right or power over, the tangible personal
property arises under a lease which is a
continuing purchase of such property for any
period of time for which the lessee is obligated
to lease the property for an amount fixed by a
lease prior to the operative date of this Chapter.

(5)	For the purposes of subsections (c)(3)
and (4) of this Section, storage, use, or other
consumption, or possession of, or exercise
of any right or power over, tangible personal
property shall be deemed not to be obligated
pursuant to a contract or lease for any period
of time for which any party to the contract or
lease has the unconditional right to terminate
the contract or lease upon notice whether or not
such right is exercised.

(6)	Except as provided in subsection (c)(7) of this
Section, a retailer engaged in business in the City
shall not be required to collect use tax from the
purchaser of tangible personal property, unless
the retailer ships or delivers the property into the
City or participates within the City in making the
sale of the property, including, but not limited to,
soliciting or receiving the order, either directly or
indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer
in the City or through any representative, agent,
canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the
City under the authority of the retailer.

(7)	“A retailer engaged in business in the
City” shall also include any retailer of any of
the following: vehicles subject to registration
pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section
4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft
licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of
the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented
vessels registered under Chapter 2 of Division
3.5(commencing with Section 9840) of the

Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to
collect use tax from any purchaser who registers
or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an
address in the City.

(d)	Any person subject to use tax underthis Chapter
may credit against that tax any transactions tax or
reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district
imposing, or retailer liable for a transactions tax
pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code with respect to the sale to the
person of the property the storage, use, or other
consumption of which is subject to the use tax.
(Ord. 481 § 3 (part), 2014: Ord. 470 § 2 (part),
2012)

Sec. 8-9.09 Amendments.

(a)	All amendments subsequent to the effective
date of this Chapter to Part 1 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and
use taxes and which are not inconsistent with
Parts 1.6 and 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code, and all amendments to Parts

1.6	and 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part
of this Chapter; provided, however, that no such
amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate
of tax imposed by this Chapter.

(b)	The City Council of the City of Hercules may
make amendments to this Chapter that do not
affect the rate or duration of tax imposed without
approval of the voters of the City. The City Council
of the City of Hercules may repeal this Chapter
by a two-thirds (2/3) vote of the Council without
approval of the voters of the City, provided all
indebtedness secured by the tax has been
satisfied. The City Council may amend the rate
of tax imposed herein (increase or decrease) or
extend the term of the tax only upon two-thirds
(2/3) vote of the Council and with approval of the
voters of the City. (Ord. 481 § 3 (part), 2014: Ord.
470 §2 (part), 2012)

Sec. 8-9.10 Enjoining Collection Forbidden.

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or
equitable process shall issue in any suit, action
or proceeding in any court against the State or
the City, or against any officer of the State or the
City, to prevent or enjoin the collection under this
Chapter, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of
tax required to be collected. (Ord. 481 § 3 (part),
2014: Ord. 470 § 2 (part), 2012)

CC 001-008

Sec. 8-9.11 Severability.

If any provision of this Chapter or the application
thereof to any person or circumstance is held
invalid, the remainder of the Chapter and the
application of such provision to other persons or
circumstances shall not be affected thereby. (Ord.
481 § 3 (part), 2014: Ord. 470 § 2 (part), 2012)

Sec. 8-9.12 Use of Tax Proceeds.

All proceeds of the tax levied and imposed under
this Chapter shall be paid into the general fund for
use by the City of Hercules. (Ord. 481 § 3 (part),
2014: Ord. 470 § 2 (part), 2012)

Sec. 8-9.13 Finance Commission Oversight.

The Finance Commission, created pursuant to
Title 2, Chapter 2, Article 6, shall meet monthly to
oversee expenditures of the revenues received
by the City from the sales and use taxes imposed
pursuant to this Chapter, and to ensure that
tax revenues are spent by the City in a manner
consistent with the voter approved measure
adopting this Chapter as well as any voter
approved or Council approved priorities adopted
to implement the provisions of this Chapter. (Ord.
481 § 3 (part), 2014: Ord. 470 § 2 (part), 2012)

Sec. 8-9.14 Duties.

(a)	The Commission is charged with the following
responsibilities: (1) reviewing all appropriations
of revenues received by the City from the sales
and use taxes imposed pursuant to the provisions
of this Chapter to determine whether such funds
are to be used as provided for in this Chapter
and the voter approved measure that adopted
this Chapter; (2) reviewing the audit prepared
by an independent auditor retained by the City
to perform the City’s Comprehensive Annual
Financial Report to determine whether such
funds have been spent as provided for in this
Chapter and the voter approved measure; and (3)
prepare and issue the Commission’s own annual
report setting forth their findings in regard to the
foregoing; and (4) determining when the City
has met its goal of achieving long term financial
stability with adequate financial reserves, and
issuing a report to Council detailing such findings,
pursuant to Sec. 8-9.01 (d).

(b)	The Commission shall, for the purpose of
fulfilling oversight responsibilities pursuant to
Measure O, confine itself specifically to funds
received by the City from the sales and use taxes
imposed pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter.

(c)	In order to preserve the integrity and
independence of the oversight process,
Commission members will not play a formal role in
decision-making on spending priorities, financing
plans, or tax rate projections or assumptions.
(Ord. 481 § 3 (part), 2014: Ord. 470 § 2 (part),
2012. Formerly 8-9.17)”

2.	Effective Date.

This Ordinance relates to the levying and
collecting of the City transactions and use taxes,
and is a valid and binding ordinance of the City upon
passage and approval by the electorate of the City
of Hercules. This Ordinance shall be considered as
adopted upon the date that the vote is declared by
the legislative body, and shall go into effect ten (10)
days after that date.

PASSED, APPROVED, AND ADOPTED by

the Hercules City Council on_________,	2015,	by

the following roll call vote:

AYES:

NOES:

ABSENT:

ABSTAIN:

Sherry McCoy, Mayor

ATTEST:

Margaret S. Roberts, MMC
Administrative Services Director/City Clerk

CC 001-009