MEASURE C
CITY OF HERCULES

To maintain Hercules' financial stability; enhance fiscal
accountability; prevent cuts to police services/crime
prevention programs, street/pothole repair, youth/
senior programs, and other essential City services;
and maintain the number of police officers patrolling
neighborhood streets and the local Hercules Police
Department, shall the City of Hercules continue its
existing, voter-approved utility users' tax, with no
tax increase, including low-income exemptions,
independent citizens' oversight, annual audits, and
funding that cannot be taken by Sacramento?

CITY ATTORNEY'S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF
MEASURE C

The City Council of the City of Hercules has placed
Measure C on the November 3, 2015 ballot. If
approved by the voters, Measure C would extend
the current voter-approved eight percent (8%) rate of
the City’s utility users tax (UUT) in order to generate
additional municipal revenues.

A UUT is levied on each user of a utility (e.g. telephone,
electricity, gas, water, cable, and video services) within
the City's boundaries. UUT revenues are used to fund
city services and programs, including public safety
services.

In 2004, the City of Hercules established a UUT rate of
six percent (6%), which will expire on January 1,2025.

In 2013, the voters approved passage of Measure A,
a temporary, five year increase of two percent (2%)
to the existing UUT rate, for a total UUT rate of eight
percent (8%). Under the terms of the 2013 Measure
A, the voter-approved two percent (2%) increase will
expire in October 2018.

Measure C would extend the 2013 voter approved
two percent (2%) UUT increase. If adopted, Measure
C would make the eight percent (8%) total rate
effective until January 1,2025. The City Council could
terminate the two percent (2%) increase at any time
before January 1,2025 and reduce the total UUT rate
to six percent (6%) either on its own initiative or at the
recommendation of the City’s Finance Commission,
upon a determination that the additional two percent
(2%) increase provided for in Measure C is no longer
necessary because the City has met its goal of
achieving long term financial stability with adequate
financial reserves.

If adopted by voters, the continuation of the existing
two percent (2%) UUT measure provided by Measure
C would generate additional general purpose local
funding to stabilize the City’s finances beyond 2018.

Because Measure C does not limit the use of revenue
to a specific purpose, the City may use the funds
for a variety of purposes, including but not limited
to: Maintaining financial stability and accountability;
maintaining the Hercules Police Department;
maintaining neighborhood police patrols; improving
9-1-1 response times; expanding neighborhood crime
prevention programs; attracting business to Hercules;
and preventing cuts to street maintenance.

Measure C is not a property tax on homeowners.
The Measure includes fiscal accountability provisions,
requiring mandatory financial audits and Independent
Citizen Oversight by the Finance Commission to
ensure that revenues are spent by the City in a manner
consistent with the measure.

A ‘Yes” vote is a vote to approve continuing the current
two percent (2%) UUT measure for a total UUT rate
of eight percent (8%) until the City's UUT provisions
expire in January 1, 2025, and authorizing the City
Council at any time prior to January 1, 2025, either
on its own initiative or at the recommendation of the
City’s Finance Commission, to reduce the UUT rate to
six percent (6%).

A "No” vote will leave in place the City’s existing eight
percent (8%) UUT until October 2018, when the 2013
Measure A two percent (2%) increase expires.

Measure C would be approved if it receives a simple
majority of “Yes” votes.

DATED: August 20, 2015

J. Patrick Tang, City Attorney
City of Hercules

CC 001-010

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
MEASURE C

ARGUMENT AGAINST
MEASURE C

Want to keep Hercules a community where you want
to live and raise your family?

Did you know that Hercules is currently the 19th safest
city in California?

It wasn’t too long ago that we elected a new City
Council, hired new City administrators, and established
a permanent Citizens’ Finance Commission to improve
fiscal and government transparency, restoring our
confidence and trust!

To maintain our positive momentum, without raising
tax rates - Vote YES on B & C!

YES on B& C maintains our quality of life, financial
stability, and neighborhood safety!

Voting YES on B & C does not create any new
taxes. It simply continues existing funding adopted by
Hercules voters to maintain OUR essential services
and financial stability.

Voting YES on B & C maintains the local Hercules
Police Department, including:

•	Maintaining the number of police officers
patrolling neighborhood streets

•	Improving 9-1-1 response times

•	Expanding neighborhood crime prevention
programs

YES on B & C attracts business to Hercules.

YES on B & C prevents cuts to street maintenance.

Again, voting YES on B & C does NOT raise your tax
rates. By law, NO taxes can be increased without voter
approval.

Not a dime of the funding generated by Measures B &
C can be taken by Sacramento politicians!

YES on B & C includes tough Fiscal Accountability
safeguards, with Independent Citizens' Oversight,
mandatory annual financial audits and yearly reports
to the community to monitor spending—guaranteeing
funds continue to be spent responsibly and as
promised.

Join a unanimous Hercules Mayor and City Council,
police officers, local business owners, and community
leaders in voting YES on B & C to protect and maintain
the essential services that make our community a
safe, well-maintained place to live without raising
existing tax rates. For factual information, visit www.
ci.hercules.ca.us

Hercules Police Officers Association, Earnest Lee Taylor,
(Sergeant) President

Virgilio De La Vega, Chair, Finance Commission
Darrel Jay Tucker, Former Mayor, 37 year resident
Lori Han, Treasurer, HSC
Sylvia Villa Serrano, Executive Director Chamber

None filed.

CC 001-011

FULL TEXT OF
MEASURE C

EXHIBIT A

ORDINANCE NO.______________

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OF HERCULES AMENDING THE HERCULES
MUNICIPAL CODE BYCONTINUINGTHE EXISTING
HERCULES UTILITY USERS TAX WITHOUT AN
INCREASE, SAID TAX TO BE CONTINUED UNTIL
SUCH TIME AS THE CITY COUNCIL APPROVES
FINANCE COMMISSION FINDINGS THAT THE
CITY HAS MET ITS GOAL OF ACHIEVING LONG
TERM FINANCIAL STABILITY WITH ADEQUATE
FINANCIAL RESERVES

WHEREAS, Measure A, providing for a 2%
temporary increase to the existing 6% Utility Users
Tax (“UUT”), was approved in 2013 by a majority of
the electorate of the City of Hercules to mitigate cuts
to local services caused by State takeaways and the
Great Recession; and

WHEREAS, the revenues raised by Measure
A have helped the City stay solvent during the period
since it was adopted; and

WHEREAS, unless the voters approve the
Measure A Continuation Measure, the temporary
increase of two percent (2%) to the existing UUT
rate provided by Measure A will automatically sunset
five (5) years from the date that the increase was
statutorily required to be collected, or on September
1, 2018, whichever occurs first, after which the utility
users tax rate will revert back to six percent (6%); and

WHEREAS, if this Continuation is adopted,
there is no increase in the total voter-approved Utility
Users Tax (“UUT”) that Hercules residents currently
pay; and

WHEREAS, the City wishes to continue to
address service priorities identified as important by
the public, such as maintaining the number of police
officers patrolling neighborhood streets, improving
911 response times, expanding neighborhood crime
prevention programs, attracting business to Hercules,
and preventing cuts to street maintenance; and

WHEREAS, by law, all funds from a Measure
A Continuation Measure must stay in Hercules to
maintain local services and no funds can be taken by
Sacramento; and

WHEREAS, the Measure A Continuation
Measure requires independent Citizens’ Oversight by
the City’s Finance Commission, mandatory financial
audits, and yearly reports to the community to ensure
the funds are spent as promised; and

WHEREAS, the revenues raised by Measure
A have helped the City stay solvent, reduce a $9
million deficit, and improve fiscal and government
accountability; and

WHEREAS, the City’s Financial Forecast
estimates that if Measure A expires, commencing in
Fiscal Year 2017-18, an estimated $1M in annual
budget reductions will be required to address the
decline in City revenues currently received from
Measure A, which in turn will require the City to make
severe cuts to the services it currently provides,
adversely affecting public safety services including the
number of police officers, crime investigation services,
and neighborhood police patrols, along with other City
services, such as road maintenance, youth sports and
recreation programs, city parks and playgrounds, and
senior services at the Senior Center; and

WHEREAS, at its June 23, 2015 meeting, the
City Council adopted a budget for FY 2015-16 that
recognized the need for additional revenue to maintain
and preserve the level of services desired by residents
of the City; and

WHEREAS, at a public hearing on July 28,
2015, the Council considered placing a measure on
the ballot for the November 3, 2015 General Election
seeking voter approval of an extension of Measure A;
and

WHEREAS, after the July 28th hearing, the
City Council concluded that based upon all of the
information presented, in orderto maintain the revenue
necessary to preserve existing service levels, the
Council should ask the voters of the City to approve
a continuation of the 2% UUT increase originally
authorized by Measure A, the revenue from which
could be used to support general municipal services;
and

WHEREAS, on the basis of the foregoing,

the City Council, by adopting Resolution 15-_________,

determined that it was appropriate to place a measure
before the voters at the November 3, 2015 general
election regarding a continuation of the 2% UUT
increase originally authorized by Measure A; and

CC 001-012

WHEREAS, the 2% tax, if approved to be
continued, would be imposed on all categories of
utility services, including but not limited to telephone,
electricity, gas, water, cable and video; and

WHEREAS, if approved to be continued by
a majority of the electorate, the 2% UUT increase
originally authorized by Measure A would extend until
such time as the Finance Commission finds, and the
City Council approves by a 2/3 vote, that the City has
achieved long-term financial stability with adequate
financial reserves, or until January 1, 2025, pursuant
to Section 8-8.318 of the Hercules Municipal Code,
whichever comes first.

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL
OF THE CITY OF HERCULES as follows:

1.	Purpose.

This Ordinance amends the Hercules
Municipal Code in order to continue a previously
enacted utility users tax.

“Article 4. Continuation of Increase to

Utility Users Tax Rate

Sec. 8-8.401 Purpose.

(a) The purpose of this Article is to continue
the increase of two percent (2%) to the
existing six percent (6%) utility users tax
rate approved by the voters at the June
4, 2013 special election, fora total utility
users tax rate of eight percent (8%),
which eight percent (8%) rate shall be
applicable from the effective date of this
Article to all categories of utility services
identified in this Chapter, including but
not limited to telephone, electricity, gas,
water, cable and video, until such time
as the Finance Commission determines
that the City has met its goal of achieving
long term fiscal stability with adequate
reserves, and the City Council approves
by a 2/3 vote to terminate the 2%
increase pursuant to Section 8-8.409,
after which the rate shall revert to six
percent (6%), with said six percent (6%)
rate to sunset on the date indicated in
Section 8-8.318.

(b) The continuation of the 2013 voter
approved tax increase is pursuant to
voter approval at the November 3,
2015, special election.

Sec. 8-8.402 Use of Additional Tax Proceeds.

All proceeds of the tax levied and imposed
under this Article shall be paid into the
general fund for use by the City of Hercules.

Sec. 8-8.403 Independent Audit of Tax
Collection, Exemption, Remittance, and
Expenditure.

The City shall annually verify that the taxes owed
under this Article have been properly applied,
exempted, collected, and remitted in accordance
with this Article, and properly expended according
to applicable municipal law. The annual verification
shall be performed by a qualified independent third
party and the review shall employ reasonable, cost-
effective steps to assure compliance, including the
use of sampling audits. The verification shall not
be required of tax remitters where the cost of the
verification may exceed the tax revenues to be
reviewed.

Sec. 8-8.404 Oversight by Finance
Commission.

The Finance Commission, created pursuant to
Title 2, Chapter 2, Article 6, or a subcommittee of
the Commission established for this purpose, shall
meet at least monthly and review all revenues and
expenditures under this Chapter in order to ensure
that the funds are spent in accordance with the
voter approved measure adopting this Chapter as
well as any voter approved or Council approved
priorities adopted to implement the provisions of
this Chapter.

Sec. 8-8.405 [Blank]

(Ord. 481 § 2 (part), 2014: Ord. 475 § 1 (part),
2013)

Sec. 8-8.406 Duties.

(a) The Commission is charged with the following
responsibilities: (1) reviewing all appropriations
of revenues received by the City from the sales
and use taxes imposed pursuant to the provisions
of this Chapter to determine whether such funds
are to be used as provided for in this Chapter

CC 001-013

and the voter approved measure that adopted
this Chapter; (2) reviewing the audit prepared
by an independent auditor retained by the City
to perform the City’s Comprehensive Annual
Financial Report to determine whether such funds
have been spent as provided for in this Chapter
and the voter approved measure; (3) prepare and
issue the Commission's own annual report setting
forth their findings in regard to the foregoing;
and (4) determining when the City has met its
goal of achieving long term financial stability with
adequate financial reserves, and issuing a report
to Council detailing such findings, pursuant to
Sec. 8-8.409.

(b) In order to preserve the integrity and
independence of the oversight process,
Commission members will not play a formal role
in contracting, project management, construction,
or any other aspect of the funding. In addition, the
Commission is not charged with decision-making
on spending priorities, construction schedules,
project details, funding source decisions (e.g.,
leveraged funds, developer fees, etc.), financing
plans, tax rate assumptions, or selection of
consultants, design, and construction firms. (Ord.
481 § 2 (part), 2014: Ord. 475 § 1 (part), 2013)

Sec. 8-8.407 Effective Date.

This Article relates to the continuation of a
temporary increase of two percent (2%) to the
City’s existing utility users tax rate, and is a valid
and binding City tax upon passage and approval
by a majority of the electorate of the City of
Hercules. This Article shall be considered adopted
upon the date that the vote is declared by the
legislative body, shall go into effect ten (10) days
after that date.

Sec. 8-8.408 Amendments.

The City Council of the City of Hercules may make
amendments to this Chapter without approval of
the voters of the City if the amendments do not
affect the rate of tax imposed. The City Council
may amend the rate of tax imposed herein
(increase or decrease) or extend the term of the
tax, only upon two-thirds (2/3) vote of the Council
and with approval of the voters of the City under
applicable codes.

Sec. 8-8.409 Procedure for Termination of 2%
Increase.

This Article providing for an increase of two
percent (2%) to the existing utility users tax
rate shall remain in effect until January 1, 2025
pursuant to Section 8-8.318, or until such time
as the Finance Commission, created pursuant
to Title 2, Chapter 2, Article 6, determines that
the City has met its goal of achieving long
term financial stability with adequate financial
reserves. Upon finding by a 2/3 vote of the
City Council that the Finance Commission
has adequately determined that the City has
achieved long term financial stability with
adequate financial reserves, the City Council
shall enact legislation to reduce the UUT rate
to 6%, effective no later than one year from
date of passage. Notwithstanding this Section,
the Council retains the independent authority
to repeal the utility users tax pursuant to Sec.
8-8.317 of this Chapter.”

2.	Effective Date.

This Ordinance relates to the continuation
of a previously enacted temporary increase of two
percent (2%) to the City's existing utility users tax
rate, and is a valid and binding ordinance of the City
upon passage and approval by the electorate of the
City of Hercules. This Ordinance shall be considered
as adopted upon the date that the vote is declared by
the legislative body, and shall go into effect ten (10)
days after that date.

PASSED, APPROVED, AND ADOPTED by

the Hercules City Council on_______,	2015,	by

the following roll call vote:

AYES:

NOES:

ABSENT:

ABSTAIN:

Sherry McCoy, Mayor

ATTEST:

Margaret S. Roberts, MMC
Administrative Services Director/City Clerk

CC 001-014