MARINWOOD COMMUNITY
SERVICES DISTRICT

MEASURE I

MEASURE I: "To provide park, open space and street landscape maintenance, shall an ordinance be
adopted to replace the existing special tax of $189.56 per parcel with a special tax of $189.56 per unit
on each parcel within the Marinwood Community Services District, with an annual cost of living
adjustment, and to increase the District appropriations limit by the amount of the proceeds received
from the special tax?"

YES	NO

COUNTY COUNSEL'S IMPARTIAL
ANALYSIS OF MEASURE I

MARINWOOD COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
SPECIAL TAX FOR PARK, OPEN SPACE AND STREET LANDSCAPE MAINTENANCE

This measure was placed on the ballot by the Marinwood Community Services District. Section
61121 of the California Government Code authorizes the District to place a special tax on all real
property to be applied uniformly to all real property within the District, except that unimproved
property may be taxed at a lower rate than improved property.

If this Measure is approved by a two-thirds vote, the Marinwood Community Services District
shall replace the existing annual parcel tax of One Hundred Eighty-Nine Dollars and Fifty-Six Cents
($189.56) per improved parcel, to a tax of $189.56 per unit on each parcel within the Marinwood
Community Services District, with an annual cost of living adjustment. If the measure passes, the
Marinwood Community Services District appropriations limit will be increased by the amount of the
proceeds received from the special tax.

STEVEN M. WOODSIDE
County Counsel

By s/Sheila Lichtblau, Deputy County Counsel

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE

I

In 2005, the voters of Marinwood Community Services District approved the current Special Tax for
Park, Open Space and Street Landscape Maintenance. Measure I proposes to restructure how the
existing tax is levied, from a "per parcel" basis to a "per unit" basis. Measure I is not a tax
increase.

The vast majority of improved parcels within Marinwood Community Services District have historically
contained a single household. As such, the existing tax has generally been collected on a "per
household" basis. However, if continuing interest in the construction of additional housing - primarily
consisting of multiple units on single parcels - within the District materializes, the result of receiving
the existing tax on a per household basis would become compromised. Yet it is understood that
residents of any new housing would also be enjoying our parks and open space that the existing tax is
intended and needed to maintain.

Measure I applies uniformly, by law, to any individual unit on improved single parcels, whether they
are commercial, retail, market-rate residential or affordable residential units. The proposed restructure
does not unfairly hinder nor enable future development of any type. Rather, it seeks to ensure the
District continues to receive the appropriate, needed and fair allocation of the special tax funds
collected by this measure.

The vast majority of tax assessments on current District residents will remain unchanged
by this proposed restructure.

Your Marinwood Community Services District Board of Directors have unanimously approved this
resolution. It is also strongly supported by the Marinwood Park and Recreation Commission. We urge
and ask you to vote YES on Measure I.
s/IZABELA PERRY

Chairperson, Marinwood CSD P&R Commission

s/DAVID S. MITCHELL

Former CSD Director

s/BRUCE CARMEDELLE

President, Lucas Valley Estates HOA

s/JODY MORALES

s/JUSTIN KAI

Marinwood CSD Board of Directors

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR

OF MEASURE I

This is an immediate tax increase to those of us with second units. To disguise this increase the
proponents claim the existing tax is a household tax. It was never a "household tax". It is and was
always a parcel tax just like every other park district in Marin. The amount derived was calculated on
the need of the district divided by the number of parcels. Why try to redefine it?

While the new tax will apply uniformly it remains unfair as a single person living in a small studio will
pay the same as a household of 5 or more people. Are the proponents saying a single person will use
the parks the same amount as a family of five?

The proponents declare that the restructured tax will not hinder future development but the developer
of one such development stood before the CSD board and told them otherwise. The local newspaper
editorial board said the same thing. This measure adds the tax to those least able to afford it.

The measure was passed at a late night session and approved at a special meeting. There are no new
developments scheduled for at least three years. Vote no and send it back to the CSD board for a
re-think.

s/BRUCE ANDERSON

Former Marinwood CSD board member

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE I

This tax is both hastily and ill-conceived. Passed in a late night session and approved two weeks later
in a special meeting it received almost zero public input. Historically, Marinwood has provided a 45
day period prior to a public hearing for new taxes. No new housing development is planned for our
area for at least three years; why not give the measure a full hearing before the public?

A per unit tax for parks is inherently unfair. Seniors living in a second unit or a studio apartment will
pay the same as a family of four or more living in a four/five bedroom home yet will utilize the park
facilities much less. Each senior living in the planned assisted living center will pay the same as an
entire group home consisting of seven or eight "challenged" individuals. A person renting a legal small
second unit or a single bedroom apartment will pay the same as a family of six (Grandparents,
parents and two children) living in a modified five bedroom home.

No other Park taxing authority in Marin utilizes a per unit basis for their park tax. They each conform
to a per parcel tax or sales tax as the means to gain revenue.

Fairness could have been achieved by other means but time and notice were not given to allow for
modifications to this poorly conceived tax passed in the dead of night. Send it back to the drafting
board. Vote no.

s/BRUCE ANDERSON

Former Marinwood CSD board member

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST

MEASURE I

The concept behind "Measure I" was discussed publicly at the March 11, 2014 Marinwood CSD board
meeting, evidenced by the meeting minutes. Since that time, the District performed its due diligence
in not only how, but also whether, to legally and fairly restructure this tax from a per parcel levy to a
per unit levy. Well publicized decisions made at a County level identify Marinwood/Lucas Valley as a
primary location of high-density housing. To label this tax restructure as "both hastily and
ill-conceived" lacks both merit and foundation.

Marinwood CSD is afforded limited means by which to generate revenue. The collection of sales tax is
not an option.

Seniors in the "planned assisted living center" would not qualify individually as "units" given the
definition provided in the ordinance.

Recent discussions regarding the proposed restructure have taken place at standard meeting times,
open and properly noticed to the public. Multiple opportunities have been available for public input.
Multiple residents have expressed their support.

Use of Marinwood/Lucas Valley Parks & Open Space remain popular as ever by all age groups. The
District Board of Directors thoughtfully examined the issue, resulting in a fair and unanimously
approved proposal submitted to the ballot.

As they should, the voters of the District will decide the fate of Measure I. They will do so with 88
days, from the point of ballot submission to Election Day, by which to make their informed decision in
a fair and democratic manner.

Vote "Yes" on Measure I!
s/TAREY AYN READ

President, Marinwood CSD Board of Directors
s/JUSTIN KAI

Vice-President, Marinwood CSD Board of Directors
s/WILLI AM SHEA

Marinwood CSD Board of Directors
S/DEANA DEARBORN
Marinwood CSD Board of Directors
s/BILL HANSELL

Marinwood CSD Board of Directors

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE I

RESOLUTION NO. 2015-09

A RESOLUTION OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE MARINWOOD COMMUNITY SERVICES
DISTRICT CALLING A SPECIAL ELECTION ON TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2015, ORDERING THAT A
QUESTION RELATING TO THE LEVY OF A SPECIAL TAX BE SUBMITTED TO THE VOTERS AT THE
SPECIAL ELECTION, AND REQUESTING THAT THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS OF THE COUNTY OF
MARIN CONSENT TO THE CONSOLIDATION OF THE SPECIAL DISTRICT ELECTION WITH THE UNIFORM
DISTRICT ELECTION TO BE HELD ON SAID DATE AND TO RENDER SPECIFIED SERVICES TO THE
DISTRICT PURSUANT TO SECTION 10400 OF THE ELECTIONS CODE

WHEREAS, pursuant to its rights, powers and authority under State law, the Board of Directors of the
Marinwood Community Services District (the "District") may call a Special Election to be held in the
District on November 3, 2015 for the purpose of submitting a ballot measure to the voters of the
District; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the authority of Section 61121 of the California Government Code, and other
applicable law, the District may levy a special tax on all parcels of real property in the District for the
purpose of providing park, open space and street landscape maintenance, subject to the approval by a
two-thirds vote of the qualified voters of the District voting in an election on the issue; and
WHEREAS, the County of Marin will conduct a uniform district election on November 3, 2015; and
WHEREAS, it is desirable that this Special District Election be consolidated with the Uniform District
Election to be held on the same date and that within said District the precincts, polling places and
election officers of the elections be the same, and that the County Election Department of the County
of Marin canvass the returns of the Special District Election, and that this consolidated election be held
in all respects as if there were only one election.

NOW, THEREFORE, THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE MARINWOOD COMMUNITY SERVICES
DISTRICT DOES RESOLVE, DECLARE, DETERMINE AND ORDER AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. The foregoing findings are true and correct.

SECTION 2. Pursuant to Section 61120 of the California Government Code, the Board of
Directors hereby determines that the amount of revenue available to the District is inadequate to meet
the costs of providing park, open space and street landscape maintenance.

SECTION 3. Pursuant to its rights, powers and authority, the Board of Directors of the
District does hereby call a Special District Election to be held on November 3, 2015 and orders the
following question to be submitted to the voters at the Special District Election:

"To provide park, open space and street landscape maintenance, shall an ordinance be
adopted to replace the existing special tax of $189.56 per parcel with a special tax of $189.56 per unit

on each parcel within the Marinwood Community Services District, with an annual cost of living
adjustment, and to increase the District appropriations limit by the amount of the proceeds received
from the special tax?"

SECTION 4. The Board hereby approves the proposed ordinance to be submitted to the
voters, as attached to this Resolution as Exhibit A and incorporated herein by reference. The
proposed measure is a special tax as defined in Article XIIIC of the California Constitution and shall
not take effect unless and until approved by a vote of at least two-thirds of the voters voting on the
question at said Special District Election. The full text of the ordinance shall be printed on the voter
pamphlet.

SECTION 5. Pursuant to the requirements of Section 10400 of the California Elections
Code, the Board of Supervisors of the County of Marin is hereby requested to consent and agree to
the consolidation of the Special District Election with the Uniform District Election on Tuesday,
November 3, 2015, for the purpose of submitting the above-described ballot measure to the voters of
the District.

SECTION 6. The District hereby acknowledges that the consolidated election will be held
and conducted in the manner prescribed in Section 10418 of the California Elections Code.

SECTION 7. The ballots to be used at the election shall be in form and content as required

by law.

SECTION 8. The District Manager is authorized, instructed and directed to contract with the
County of Marin to procure and furnish any and all official ballots, notices, printed matter and all
supplies, equipment, personnel and paraphernalia that may be necessary in order to properly and
lawfully conduct the election, at costs to be reimbursed by the District.

SECTION 9. In all particulars not recited in this resolution, the Special District Election shall
be held and conducted as provided by law for holding district elections. All persons qualified and
registered to vote in the District as of the date of said election shall be entitled to vote.

SECTION 10. Notice of the time and place of holding the election is given, and the District
Secretary is authorized, instructed and directed to give further or additional notice of the election in
time, form and manner as required by law.

SECTION 11. The election shall be held in all respects as if there were only one election, and
only one form of ballot shall be used.

SECTION 12. The County Election Department is hereby requested to render the following
services to the District relating to the conduct of the election to be held on November 3, 2015:
Preparation of voter indexes; voter counting by precinct; verification of signatures; drayage and rental
of polling places; printing of measures and arguments; printing of sample and official ballots;
appointment and notification of election officers; mailing of sample ballots and polling place
notification; of precinct supplies; training of precinct workers; processing of absentee ballots; central
counting; canvass of votes.

SECTION 13. The Board of Supervisors is requested to issue instructions to the County
Election Department to take any and all steps necessary for the holding of the consolidated election.

SECTION 14. The District recognizes that additional costs will be incurred by the County by
reason of this consolidation and agrees to reimburse the County for any costs.

SECTION 15. The District Secretary is hereby directed to file a certified copy of this resolution
with the Board of Supervisors and the County Election Department of the County of Marin forthwith.

SECTION 16. The District Secretary is hereby directed to forward a copy of the measure to be
voted on at the Special District Election and the District general counsel is hereby directed to prepare
an impartial analysis of the measure.

SECTION 17. The Board of Directors hereby authorizes any of its members to submit a ballot
argument in favor of or against the measure to be voted on at the Special District Election.

SECTION 18. The District Secretary shall certify to the passage and adoption of this
Resolution and enter it into the official records of the District.

PASSED, APPROVED, AND ADOPTED on this 30th day of July 2015, by the following vote:
AYES: Dearborn, Hansell, Kai, Read, Shea
NOES:

ABSTAIN:

ABSENT:
s/TAREY READ
Board President
ATTEST:

s/CAROLYN SULLIVAN
Secretary to the Board

EXHIBIT A

ORDINANCE NO. 2015-01
AN ORDINANCE OF THE MARINWOOD COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT IMPOSING A
SPECIAL TAX TO FINANCE PARK, OPEN SPACE AND STREET LANDSCAPE MAINTENANCE
SERVICES AND AUTHORIZING AN INCREASE IN THE APPROPRIATIONS LIMIT FOR THE
MARINWOOD COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
THE PEOPLE OF THE MARINWOOD COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT DO HEREBY ORDAIN
AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1. Authority, Purpose and Intent.

Pursuant to the authority of Section 61121 of the California Government Code, and other
applicable law, there is hereby levied and assessed a special tax by the Marinwood Community
Services District on all parcels of real property in the Marinwood Community Services District for each

fiscal year. It is the sole purpose and intent of this ordinance to impose a special tax to provide park,
open space and street landscape maintenance services.

Section 2. Special Tax Imposed.

A special tax for the purpose specified in Section 4 of this ordinance shall be imposed on all
parcels of real property in the Marinwood Community Services District for each fiscal year,
commencing with fiscal year 2016-17. The amount of the special tax for fiscal year 2016-17 shall be
$189.56 per unit.

Beginning with fiscal year 2017-18 and for each fiscal year thereafter, the amount of the
special tax per unit may increase by the percentage by which the Consumer Price Index for All Urban
Consumers in the San Francisco-Oakland-San Jose Area published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics of
the United States Department of Labor, or any successor to that index, increased in the previous
calendar year.

The records of the Marin County Assessor as of March 1st of each year shall determine the use
and improvement of each parcel for the calculation of the special tax applicable to that parcel in the
following fiscal year.

For the purposes of this ordinance, the term "unit" shall mean:

(A)	For residential use property, any building or portion thereof used or designed as a
separate dwelling accommodation, with cooking, living and sleeping facilities.

(B)	For all other improved property, any portion of a building or structure or other improved
real property which is occupied or designed to be occupied by a separate business establishment
required to be licensed as such pursuant to the Marin County Code of Ordinances.

Section 3.	Annual levy.

The Board of Directors shall annually by an affirmative vote of at least a majority of its
members establish the amount of the special tax levy, in an amount that does not exceed the
maximum amount specified in Section 2 of this ordinance. The special tax shall not be measured by
value of the property.

Section 4.	Special Fund, Use of Tax	Proceeds.

The proceeds of the special tax imposed by this ordinance shall be placed in a special fund to
be used solely for the purpose of providing park, open space and street landscape maintenance
services.

Section 5.	Collection.

The special tax imposed by this ordinance shall	be collected in the same manner, on the same

dates, and shall be subject to the same penalties and interest as other charges and taxes fixed and
collected by the County of Marin on behalf of the Marinwood Community Services District. Said
special tax, together with all penalties and interest thereon, shall constitute a lien upon the parcel
upon which it is levied until it has been paid, and said special tax, together with all penalties and
interest thereon, shall constitute until paid, to the extent authorized by law, a personal obligation to

the Marinwood Community Services District by the persons who own the parcel on the date the tax is
due.

Section 6. Amendment.

The Board of Directors shall be empowered to amend this ordinance by an affirmative vote of
at least a majority of its members to carry out the general purposes of this ordinance, to conform the
provisions of this ordinance to applicable state law, to modify the methods of collection, or to assign
the duties of public officials under this ordinance.

In no event shall the Board of Directors amend this ordinance to increase the amount of the
special tax established in Section 2 of this ordinance, unless approved by two-thirds of the voters
voting thereon.

Section 7.	Exemptions.

The special tax shall not be imposed upon any parcel that is exempt from the special tax
pursuant to any provision of the Constitution, California State law, or any paramount law. The Board
of Directors by resolution may adopt exemptions to the special tax imposed by this ordinance.

Section 8.	Appropriations Limit.

The appropriations limit of the Marinwood Community Services District established under
Article XIIIB, Section 6 of the California Constitution shall be increased by the amount of the proceeds
received from the special tax imposed by this ordinance.

Section 9.	Special Tax Accountability Measures.

The District Manager shall annual file a special tax accountability report with the Board of
Directors. The report shall contain both of the following: (a) the amount of funds collected and
expended for each special tax imposed by the District and (b) the status of any project required or
authorized to be funded by such special tax. As required by Section 50075.3 of the California
Government Code, as such law is amended from time to time.

Section 10.	Repeal of Ordinance No.	16.

Ordinance No. 16 of the Marinwood Community Services District imposing a special tax for
park, open space and street landscape maintenance is hereby repealed in the event that the tax
imposed by this ordinance is adopted and becomes effective. Notwithstanding the previous sentence,
the collection and enforcement of liens or obligations for the special tax previously levied under
Ordinance No 16 shall continue in effect until such time as the collection and enforcement procedures
have been completed.

Section 11. Severability.

If any provision of this ordinance or the application thereof to any person or circumstances is
held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidity or
unconstitutionality shall not affect any other provision or applications, and to this end the provisions of
this ordinance are declared to be severable. The Board of Directors, and the electorate by referendum,
do hereby declare that they would have adopted this ordinance and each section, subsection.

sentence, clause, phrase, part or portion thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or more
sections, subsections, clauses, phrases, parts or portions thereof, be declared invalid or
unconstitutional

Section 12.	Effective Date.

This ordinance shall be adopted and become effective immediately upon approval by
two-thirds of the voters voting thereon, at an election to be held on November 3, 2015.

Section 13.	Attestation.

The President is hereby authorized to attest to the adoption of this ordinance by signing where
indicated below.

I hereby certify that the foregoing ordinance was PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED
by the people of the Marinwood Community Services District voting on the 3rd day of
November, 2015.

By:

Board President
ATTEST:

Secretary to the Board