CITY OF NOVATO

MEASURE C

MEASURE C: To continue funding, that cannot be taken by the State,
for general city services including, but not limited to, protecting
neighborhood police patrols, 9-1-1 emergency response, crime
prevention/gang intervention services; fixing potholes, streets, parks;
attracting/retaining qualified police officers; supporting the local
economy/increasing jobs; and providing youth, senior, recreation
programs, shall the City of Novato extend the existing voter approved
sales tax, reducing the rate from V2 cent to V4 cent, requiring oversight
and audits?

YES	NO

CITY ATTORNEY'S IMPARTIAL
ANALYSIS OF MEASURE C

PROPOSED ORDINANCE CONTINUING A LOCAL

TRANSACTION AND USE TAX BUT REDUCING THE TAX RATE

FROM ONE-HALF

OF ONE PERCENT

(0.5% - the same as 1/2 cent) TO ONE-QUARTER OF ONE
PERCENT (0.25% - the same as 1/4 cent)

In November 2010, the voters of the City of Novato adopted a local
transaction and use tax (sales tax) (called "Measure F") for the purpose
of increasing revenues to assist the City in maintaining the financial
viability of the City and maintaining staffing and service levels within the
City. The sales tax rate established by the passage of Measure F was
one half of one percent (0.5%). Measure F will expire on March 31,

2016.

The Novato City Council has placed Measure C on the ballot to become
effective upon the expiration of Measure F. However, the amount of the
tax established by Measure C is reduced to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%).

If adopted by a majority of the voters, this initiative measure (an
ordinance) will impose a sales tax for the purpose of generating
revenues to assist the City in maintaining the financial viability of the
City and maintaining staffing and service levels within the City.

The funds derived from the sales tax will be placed in the General Fund
and may be used for any general city purpose, including but not limited
to maintaining 911 emergency response times and neighborhood police
patrols, maintaining streets and roads, supporting senior and youth
services, and maintaining city parks.

The tax is to be imposed on retailers for the selling of tangible personal
property at retail and on the storage, use or other consumption in the

City of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer. The
proposed ordinance includes certain exemptions and exclusions from the
computation of the amount of the transactions and use tax on certain
transactions, including those exemptions already applicable under State
law.

The ordinance requires the City Council to appoint an independent
oversight committee consisting of members of the public to review and
report on the receipt of revenue and expenditure of funds from the tax.
The committee's report and recommendations must be a matter of
public record.

The ordinance requires that twenty years after its operative date, and
every five years thereafter, the City Council shall review the sales tax
and may repeal the tax by a 4/5ths vote of the Council.

Since the ordinance does not limit the City's use of the revenue from the
tax, it is a general tax. State law authorizes the City to implement this
ordinance upon its approval by a simple majority of voters who vote on
the measure.

s/JEFFREY A. WALTER

Novato City Attorney

The above statement is an impartial analysis of the proposed
ordinance. If you desire a copy of the ordinance, please call the
elections official's office at 415 899 8986 and a copy will be
mailed at no cost to you.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF

MEASURE C

Do you want to maintain our quality of life and lower your taxes? Vote
YES on C!

Voting YES on C simply continues funding previously adopted by Novato
voters at a reduced tax rate to maintain our essential public safety,
streets, parks and youth/senior service needs.

YES on C lowers local sales tax rates while continuing critical
locally-controlled funding that cannot be taken by the State. By law,
every dime must be spent locally for local needs and can't be taken by
Sacramento politicians who have already taken $15 million from Novato!
We must maintain local control of local funds for local needs!

Vote YES on C to fix our aging streets, roads and potholes at the levels
Novato residents expect and deserve.

Vote YES on C to maintain public safety - including 9-1-1 emergency
response, neighborhood police patrols, and crime prevention programs
that keep Novato safe.

YES on C REDUCES the local taxes you already pay
YES on C maintains city streets, roads and parks

YES on C fixes potholes

YES on C maintains neighborhood police patrols

YES on C attracts, trains and retains qualified police officers

YES on C continues tough Fiscal Accountability safeguards, including
continued Independent Citizens' Oversight mandatory annual
independent financial audits and yearly reports to the community to
monitor spending - guaranteeing funds are spent responsibly. Measure
C is not applied to food purchased as groceries or prescription
medications and out-of-towners also share the cost.

Hundreds of Novato residents have said they are highly satisfied with
Novato's qualify of life - but we must be vigilant and keep it that way!
Join a unanimous Mayor and City Council, police officers, local business
owners, and community leaders from neighborhoods throughout Novato
in voting YES on C.

For factual information about Measure C, visit novato.ora.
s/AL MENDOZA

Retired Police Officer, Public Safety Advocate,

and 50+ Year Resident

s/CRISTINA MacKENZIE

Measure F Oversight/Citizens Finance

Committee Member

s/ANDY PODSHADLEY

Small Business Owner and Youth Advocate

s/BETH LIVOTI

Commissioner on Aging and Senior Advocate

s/ELAYNE MILLER

40+ Year Resident and Taxpayer

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST
MEASURE C WAS FILED.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE C

CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF

NOVATO

RESOLUTION NO. 40-15

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF NOVATO
APPROVING THE ORDINANCE AND CALLING FOR, GIVING
NOTICE OF, AND ESTABLISHING THE POLICIES AND
PROCEDURES FOR AN ELECTION ON A PROPOSED BALLOT
MEASURE TO CONTINUE THE EXISTING VOTER APPROVED
FUNDING AND REDUCE THE RATE CURRENTLY PAID TO ONE
QUARTER OF ONE PERCENT (0.25%) TRANSACTIONS AND USE

(SALES) TAX TO FUND GENERAL CITY SERVICES; AND
REQUESTING THAT THE COUNTY OF MARIN CONSOLIDATE SUCH
AN ELECTION WITH THE ESTABLISHED ELECTION TO BE HELD
ON TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2015, AND DIRECTING THE COUNTY
OF MARIN TO CONDUCT THE ELECTION ON THE CITY'S BEHALF

WHEREAS, in November 2010, the voters of Novato adopted a
local revenue measure ("Measure F") to mitigate cuts to local city
services including public safety, street and park maintenance, and youth
and senior services caused by the Great Recession and State
takeaways; and

WHEREAS, Measure F established a general transactions and
use tax ("sales tax") of one-half of one percent (0.50%) (as authorized
by Revenue and Taxation Code Section 7285.9), which is enacted as
Novato City Council Ordinance No. 1551; and

WHEREAS, Measure F revenues have been instrumental in
preventing budget cuts to vital services; bringing back programs that
were cut during the recession; re-establishing programs that had all of
their funding taken by the State; and investing in Novato's public safety,
streets, parks, infrastructure, and youth programs; and

WHEREAS, the State has taken $15 million from Novato; and

WHEREAS, although the revenues raised by Measure F have
helped the City maintain essential services and prevent budget cuts,
Measure F is scheduled to expire on March 31, 2016; and

WHEREAS, the City's 5-year General Fund forecast estimates
that if Measure F expires, the City will have multi-million dollar budget
deficits for every year into the foreseeable future, which would require
reductions in City services adversely affecting 9-1-1 response times,
police officer training and recruitment, youth crime intervention
programs, local job creation programs, and parks, street, and pothole
maintenance services; and

WHEREAS, on February 11, 2014, the City Council adopted its
Fiscal Sustainability Plan for Novato, which outlined the broad vision for
a long-term fiscally and organizationally sustainable Novato, including
the need for an ongoing, locally-controlled revenue source to maintain
essential programs and services desired by the community; and

WHEREAS, the City Manager's transmittal memo for the
2015/16 Adopted Budget re-emphasized the importance of the
continuation of a voter-approved, locally-controlled revenue source and
outlined some of the direct impacts to services that are important to the
community if the revenue is not continued; and

WHEREAS, by law, all funds from a City of Novato Local
Revenue Continuation and Reduction Measure must stay in Novato to
maintain local services and no funds can be taken by the State; and

WHEREAS, the Continuation and Reduction Measure requires
independent Citizens' Oversight, mandatory financial audits, and yearly
reports to the community to ensure all funds are spent responsibly on
general City services consistent with community priorities; and

WHEREAS, if this Continuation and Reduction Measure is
adopted, there is a decrease in the tax rate Novato residents currently
pay; and

WHEREAS, if the Continuation and Reduction Measure is
approved, the City wishes to maintain and address service priorities that
the public has identified as being important to them, including 9-1-1
emergency response times; maintaining city streets, roads, and
repairing potholes; attracting, training, and retaining qualified police
officers and maintaining neighborhood police patrols; and maintaining
parks; and

WHEREAS, continued locally-controlled funding will allow the
City to address and maintain city streets, roads, and pothole repair; and

WHEREAS, continued locally-controlled funding will permit the
City to maintain neighborhood police patrols and help attract, train, and
recruit qualified police officers; and

WHEREAS, continued locally controlled funding will allow the
City to maintain parks; and

WHEREAS, continued locally controlled funding will support the
local economy and increase jobs; and

WHEREAS, continued locally controlled funding will assist the
City in providing youth and senior recreation programs; and

WHEREAS, the Continuation and Reduction Measure to be
submitted to the voters, if approved, would continue to be imposed on

retail transactions involving the sale and use of personal property. The
tax rate would be reduced to one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the
sales price of the property. The tax revenue would continue to be
collected by the State Board of Equalization and remitted to the City.

The tax would continue to remain in effect unless otherwise rescinded in
a subsequent election by the voters or repealed as outlined in Section
16-6.15. The tax shall be approved if the measure receives at least a
majority of affirmative votes; and

WHEREAS, the Novato City Council is authorized by California
Elections Code Section 9222 to place the Continuation and Reduction
Measure before the voters; and

WHEREAS, Elections Code Section 9282 sets forth the
procedures for arguments in favor of or in opposition to any City
measure; and

WHEREAS, Elections Code Section 9285 sets forth the
procedures for rebuttal arguments; and

WHEREAS, on June 2, 2015, the Novato City Council adopted a
resolution calling for the City's General Municipal Election to be held on
the same day as and consolidated with all other applicable elections to
be held on November 3, 2015. It is desirable that the election called by
this Resolution be consolidated with the City's General Municipal Election
and that, within the City, the precincts, polling places, and election
officers of the two elections be the same, and that the Elections
Department of the County of Marin canvass the returns of the General

Election and that the election be held in all respects as if there were
only one election; and

WHEREAS, based on all of the information presented at this
meeting to consider the "City of Novato Local Revenue Continuation and
Reduction Measure" both written and oral, including the staff reports
and other relevant materials, the City Council finds that under CEQA
Guidelines 15060(c)(2) & (3) and 15378(b)(2) & (4), this resolution is
exempt from the California Environmental Quality Act (Public Resources
Code Sections 21000 et seq, "CEQA", and 14 Cal. Code Reg. Sections
15000 et seq, "CEQA Guidelines"). The transactions and use tax to be
submitted to the voters is a general tax that can be used for any
legitimate governmental purpose; it is not a commitment to any
particular government action. As such, under CEQA Guidelines Section
15060(c)(2) the submission of the sales tax measure to the voters will
not result in a direct or reasonably foreseeable indirect physical change
in the environment. The proceeds of the tax are anticipated to assist the
City with retaining existing governmental functions and services to the
public. Therefore, pursuant to CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(2),
the sales tax measure is not a project pursuant to CEQA. In addition,
pursuant to CEQA Guidelines Section 15060(c)(3) and 15378(b)(4), the
tax is not a project within the meaning of CEQA because it creates a
government funding mechanism that does not involve any commitment
to any specific project that may result in a potentially significant
physical impact on the environment. If revenue from the tax were used

for a purpose that would have either such effect, the City would
undertake the required CEQA review for that particular project.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the City Council of
the City of Novato as follows:

1.	The foregoing recitals are true and correct and are hereby
adopted by the City Council; and

2.	Pursuant to California Constitution Article XIIIC, Section 2;
Government Code Section 53724; and Elections Code Section 9222, the
City Council of the City of Novato hereby calls an election at which it
shall submit to the qualified voters of the City, a measure that, if
approved, would reduce and continue the existing general sales tax, as
authorized by Revenue and Taxation Code Section 7285.9. This measure
shall be designated by letter by the Marin County Elections Department.
Pursuant to Election Code Section 10400 et seq, the election for this
measure shall be consolidated with the established election to be held
on November 3, 2015; and

3.	The question to be presented to the voters shall be as
follows:

To continue funding, that cannot be taken by the State, for general city
services including, but not limited to, protecting neighborhood police pa-

patrols, 9-1-1 emergency response, crime prevention/gang intervention
services; fixing potholes, streets, parks; attracting/retaining qualified
police officers; supporting the local economy/increasing jobs; and
providing youth, senior, recreation programs, shall the City of Novato

d.	Rebuttal arguments shall not exceed two
hundred fifty (250) words and shall be signed by not more than five
persons; those persons may be different persons than the persons who
signed the primary arguments.

e.	Pursuant to Elections Code Section 9282
(b), the Mayor is hereby authorized to prepare a written argument and
rebuttal in favor of the proposed ordinance on behalf of the City Council.
At the Mayor's discretion, the argument may also be signed by bona fide
associations or by individual voters who are eligible to vote.

f.	Pursuant to California Elections Code
Section 9280, the City Council hereby directs the City Clerk to transmit
a certified copy of the measure to the City Attorney. The City Attorney
shall prepare an impartial analysis of the measure, not to exceed five
hundred (500) words in length, showing the effect of the measure on
the existing law and the operation of the measure, and transmit the
impartial analysis to the Elections Department as required by law.

g.	Pursuant to California Elections Code
Section 9285, when the City Clerk has selected the arguments for and
against the measure, which will be printed and distributed to the voters,
the City Clerk shall send copies of the argument in favor of the measure
to the authors of the argument against, and copies of the argument
against to the authors of the argument in favor. Rebuttal arguments
shall be printed in the same manner as the primary arguments. Each

rebuttal argument shall immediately follow the primary argument which
it seeks to rebut.

9.	The City Clerk is directed to file certified copies of this
Resolution with the Board of Supervisors and the County Clerk of the
County of Marin, together with the attached ballot measure; and

10.	The jurisdictional boundaries of the City of Novato have not
changed since the last general municipal election; and

11.	This resolution shall become effective immediately upon its
passage and adoption.

I HEREBY CERTIFY that the foregoing resolution was duly and regularly
adopted by the City Council of the City of Novato, Marin County,
California, at a meeting thereof, held on the 28th day of July, 2015, by
the following vote, to wit:

AYES: Councilmembers	Athas, Eklund, Kellner, Lucan, MacLeamy

NOES: Councilmembers	None

ABSTAIN:	Councilmembers	None

ABSENT:	Councilmembers	None

s/SHERI HARTZ
City Clerk

Approved as to form:

s/VERONICA NEBB

City Attorney of the City of Novato

CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF NOVATO

ORDINANCE NO. 1601

AN ORDINANCE OF THE VOTERS OF THE CITY OF NOVATO CONTINUING
AND REDUCING AN EXISTING VOTER-APPROVED TRANSACTIONS AND
USE TAX TO BE ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE BOARD OF

EQUALIZATION

THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF NOVATO DOES ORDAIN AS
FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1: Findings: The voters of the City of Novato hereby
find and declare as follows:

a.	In November 2010, the voters of Novato adopted a local
revenue measure ("Measure F") to mitigate cuts to local city services
including public safety, street and park maintenance, and youth and
senior services caused by the Great Recession and State takeaways;
and

b.	Measure F established a general transactions and use tax
("sales tax") of one-half of one percent (0.50%) (as authorized by
Revenue and Taxation Code Section 7285.9, which is enacted as Novato
City Council Ordinance No. 1551; and

c.	Measure	F	revenues	have	been	instrumental	in

preventing budget cuts to vital services; bringing back programs that

were cut during the recession; re-establishing programs that had all of
their funding taken by the State; and investing in Novato's public safety,
streets, parks, infrastructure, and youth programs; and

d.	The State has taken $15 million from Novato; and

e.	Although the revenues raised by Measure F have helped the
City maintain essential services and prevent budget cuts, Measure F is
scheduled to expire on March 31, 2016; and

f.	The City's 5-year General Fund forecast estimates that if
Measure F expires, the City will have multi-million dollar budget deficits
for every year into the foreseeable future, which would require
reductions in City services adversely affecting 9-1-1 response times,
police officer training & recruitment, youth crime intervention programs,
local job creation programs, and parks, street, & pothole maintenance
services; and

g.	On February 11, 2014, the City Council adopted its Fiscal
Sustainability Plan for Novato, which outlined the broad vision for a
long-term fiscally and organizationally sustainable Novato, including the
need for an ongoing, locally-controlled revenue source to maintain
essential programs and services desired by the community; and

h.	The City Manager's transmittal memo for the 2015/16
Adopted Budget re-emphasized the importance of the continuation of a
voter-approved, locally-controlled revenue source and outlined some of
the direct impacts to services that are important to the community if the
revenue is not continued; and

i.	By law, all funds from a City of Novato Local Revenue
Continuation and Reduction Measure must stay in Novato to maintain
local services and no funds can be taken by the State; and

j.	The Continuation and Reduction Measure requires
independent citizens' oversight, mandatory financial audits, and yearly
reports to the community to ensure all funds are spent responsibly on
general City services consistent with community priorities; and

k.	If this Continuation and Reduction Measure is adopted, there
is a decrease in the tax rate Novato residents currently pay; and

l.	If the Continuation and Reduction Measure is approved, the
City wishes to maintain and address service priorities that the public has
identified as being important to them, including 9-1-1 emergency
response times; maintaining city streets, roads, and repairing potholes;
attracting, training, and retaining qualified police officers and
maintaining neighborhood police patrols; and maintaining parks; and
supporting the local economy and increasing jobs; and providing youth
and senior recreation programs; and

m.	Continued locally-controlled funding will allow the City to
address and maintain city streets, roads, and pothole repair; and

n.	Continued locally-controlled funding will permit the City to
maintain neighborhood police patrols and help attract, train, and recruit
qualified police officers; and

v.	On June 2, 2015, the Novato City Council adopted a
resolution calling for the City's General Municipal Election to be held on
the same day as and consolidated with all other applicable elections to
be held on November 3, 2015. It is desirable that the election called by
this Resolution be consolidated with the City's General Municipal Election
and that, within the City, the precincts, polling places, and election
officers of the two elections be the same, and that the Elections
Department of the County of Marin canvass the returns of the General
Election and that the election be held in all respects as if there were
only one election; and

w.	Based on all of the information presented to consider the
Continuation and Reduction Measure, both written and oral, including
the staff reports and other relevant materials, the City Council finds that
under CEQA Guidelines 15060(c)(2) & (3) and 15378(b)(2) & (4), this
resolution is exempt from the California Environmental Quality Act
(Public Resources Code Sections 21000 et seq, "CEQA", and 14 Cal.

Code Reg. Sections 15000 et seq, "CEQA Guidelines"). The transactions
and use tax to be submitted to the voters is a general tax that can be
used for any legitimate governmental purpose; it is not a commitment
to any particular government action. As such, under CEQA Guidelines
Section 15060(c)(2) the submission of the sales tax measure to the
voters will not result in a direct or reasonably foreseeable indirect
physical change in the environment. The proceeds of the tax are
anticipated to assist the City with retaining existing governmental

functions and services to the public. Therefore, pursuant to CEQA
Guidelines Section 15378(b)(2), the sales tax measure is not a project
pursuant to CEQA. In addition, pursuant to CEQA Guidelines Section
15060(c)(3) and 15378(b)(4), the tax is not a project within the
meaning of CEQA because it creates a government funding mechanism
that does not involve any commitment to any specific project that may
result in a potentially significant physical impact on the environment. If
revenue from the tax were used for a purpose that would have either
such effect, the city would undertake the required CEQA review for that
particular project.

SECTION 2: Amendment Of Code: "Section 16-6 Transactions
and Use Tax" is hereby amended to read as follows:

Section 16-6.1	TITLE.	This	ordinance shall be known as the

City of Novato Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance. The City of Novato
hereinafter shall be called "City." This ordinance shall be applicable in
the incorporated territory of the City.

Section 16-6.2	OPERATIVE	DATE.	"Operative	Date"	means

the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing more than 110
days after the adoption of this ordinance, the date of such adoption
being as set forth below.

Section 16-6.3	PURPOSE.	This	ordinance	is	adopted to

achieve the following, among other purposes, and directs that the
provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish those purposes:

of recordkeeping upon persons subject to taxation under the provisions
of this ordinance.

Section 16-6.4	CONTRACT	WITH	STATE.	Prior	to	the

Operative Date, the City shall contract with the State Board of
Equalization to perform all functions incident to the administration and
operation of this transactions and use tax ordinance; provided, that if
the City shall not have contracted with the State Board of Equalization
prior to the Operative Date, it shall nevertheless so contract and in such
a case the Operative Date shall be the first day of the first calendar
quarter following the execution of such a contract.

Section 16-6.5	TRANSACTIONS	TAX	RATE. For the privilege

of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed
upon all retailers in the incorporated territory of the City at the rate of
0.25% of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible
personal property sold at retail in said territory on and after the
Operative Date of this ordinance.

Section 16-6.6	PLACE	OF	SALE.	For	the purposes of this

ordinance, all retail sales are consummated at the place of business of
the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is delivered by
the retailer or his/her agent to an out-of-state destination or to a
common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross
receipts from such sales shall include delivery charges, when such
charges are subject to the State sales and use tax, regardless of the
place to which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no

business of the retailer in the City or through any representative, agent,
canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the City under the authority
of the retailer.

7. "A retailer engaged in business in the
City" shall also include any retailer of any of the following: vehicles
subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section
4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance
with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented
vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840)
of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to collect use tax
from any purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or
aircraft at an address in the City.

d. Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may
credit against that tax any transactions tax or reimbursement for
transactions tax paid to a district imposing, or retailer liable for a
transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code with respect to the sale to the person of the property the
storage use or other consumption of which is subject to the use tax.

Section 16-6.12 AMENDMENTS. All amendments subsequent
to the effective date of this ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and which
are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part
1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically

become a part of this ordinance, provided, however, that no such
amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this
ordinance.

Section 16-6.13 ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN. No
injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall
issue in any suit, action or proceeding in any court against the State or
the City, or against any officer of the State or the City, to prevent or
enjoin the collection under this ordinance, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax
required to be collected.

Section 16-6.14 CITIZENS OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE. Prior to
the Operative Date, the City Council shall (a) adopt a resolution
establishing the composition of a committee of no more than seven
residents of Novato to review and report on the revenue and
expenditure of funds from the tax adopted by this ordinance, (b) define
the scope of the committee's responsibilities, and (c) appoint at least a
quorum of the members of the committee. City employees, consultants,
or vendors are expressly precluded from serving as members of the
Citizens Oversight Committee. The Committee's reports shall be made
available to the Council and public.

Section 16-6.15:	Review	of	the	tax	by	the City Council shall

take place twenty (20) years after the operative date of this ordinance
and every five (5) years thereafter. At the time of said review periods,

the City Council may repeal the tax imposed by this ordinance by a 4/5
(four-fifths) vote of the City Council.

SECTION 3: Environmental Compliance:

The findings for this ordinance in compliance with the California
Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) are the same as those set forth in the
City's Resolution No. 40-15 calling for an election on this ordinance. The
CEQA findings in Resolution No. 40-15 are incorporated herein by
reference.

SECTION 4: Severability:

If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of
this ordinance is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional, such
decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of the
ordinance.

The City Council hereby declares that it would have
passed this and each section, subsection, phrase or clause thereof
irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, subsections,
phrases, or clauses be declared unconstitutional on their face or as
applied.

SECTION 5: Publication and Effective Date:

This ordinance shall be published in accordance applicable
provisions of law, by either:

publishing the entire ordinance once in the Novato Advance, a
newspaper of general circulation, published in the City of Novato, within

fifteen (15) days after its passage and adoption, or publishing the title
or appropriate summary in the Novato Advance at least five (5) days
prior to adoption, and a second time within fifteen (15) days after its
passage and adoption, and

This ordinance shall take effect immediately after the date of its
passage and adoption.

^

^

This Ordinance relates to the levying and collecting of the City
transactions and use taxes. The City Council, by a two-thirds vote of the
Council by adopting Resolution No. 40-15, approved submission of this
Ordinance to the voters at an election to be held on November 3, 2015.
Upon approval by a majority of the voters of the City, and upon
adoption of a resolution declaring the election results, the Mayor shall
hereby be authorized to attest to the adoption of this Ordinance by the
voters of the City by signing where indicated below.

Mayor of the City of Novato

Ordinance No. 1601 was submitted to the People of the City of Novato
at the November 3, 2015 general municipal election. It was approved by
the following vote of the People:

YES:

NO:

Attest:

City Clerk of the City of Novato

Approved as to form:

City Attorney of the City of Novato