VOTING INSTRUCTIONS - MAY 5, 2015

Special Tax Election for Road Improvement Services within County Service Area No. 21

Road Improvement Zone - Leonard Place

STEP 1: Review all materials included in your ballot packet.

Included in your ballot packet is information pertaining to the ballot measure to be voted on, including the Impartial Analysis.

STEP 2: Mark your ballot.

To vote, darken the oval to the left of the "YES" or the word "No". Use any blue or black colored pen or pencil to fill in the oval.

STEP 3: Place the voted ballot in the return envelope assigned to you.

1)	Fold the ballot along the same folds as it came to you.

2)	Place the ballot in the I.D. return envelope provided, which contains information we use to process your ballot.

STEP 4: Sign and date your ballot return envelope.

1)	Verify that your information on the I.D. return envelope is correct. Make sure you are signing your return ballot envelope and
not someone else's in your household.

2)	SIGN your name on the back of the return envelope AND write the date you signed on the space provided.

•	If your name has changed and you have not re-registered with your new name, sign with both your previous and new name
in the signature box.

•	If you are unable to sign your name, you may affix your mark in the signature box and have a witness sign the witness box.
Signature stamps are allowed if used on your affidavit of voter registration.

•	Power of Attorney is not acceptable.

•	DO NOT let someone else sign your name on your behalf.

IMPORTANT: If you do not sign your envelope, we cannot count your ballot.

STEP 5: Options for returning your ballot:

You must return your ballot to the County Elections Official no later than 8 pm on Election Day.

1)	Personally drop it off.

•	San Luis Obispo -1055 Monterey Street, Suite D-120, 8 am to 5 pm, Monday through Friday

•	Atascadero - 6565 Capistrano Avenue, 2nd Floor, 7:30 am to 4 pm, Monday through Friday

•	If you are unable to return your ballot you may designate only your spouse, child, parent, grandparent, grandchild, brother,
sister or a person residing in the voter's household to return it for you by filling in the information in the appropriate box on
the I.D. Return Envelope.

2)	Return by mail.

•	Your ballot may be mailed. Your ballot should be mailed in time to be received by the County Elections Official by 8:00 p.m.
on Election Day.

Note: New regulations allow election officials to accept vote by mail ballots that are postmarked on or before Election Day
and received by mail no later than three days after Election Day.

Reasons why vote by ballots are not counted:

1. The ballot arrives after the deadline.	2.	The voter did not sign the envelope.

3. Someone else signed the envelope instead of the voter.	4.	Ballot returned without I. D. return envelope.

NOTE: If you wrongly mark your ballot and wish to have another sent to you, seal the spoiled ballot in the I.D. return envelope
and mark an "X" in the box indicating that you want a new ballot. Return it to our office, either by mail or in person, and we will
issue you another one.

Should you have any questions or to find out if your ballot was counted you may call the Elections Office at 781-5228.

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS FOR MEASURE A-15

This measure is intended to determine whether the County of San Luis Obispo shall provide road
improvements within the Road Improvement Zone - Leonard Place, of County Service Area No. 21, by
imposing, levying, and collecting a special tax on real property within the Zone, at an initial rate not to exceed
one thousand eight hundred and fifteen dollars ($1,815) per parcel having a separate County Assessor’s
Parcel Number, commencing with fiscal year 2015/2016, and increasing annually thereafter not more than two
percent (2%) per year.

On January 27, 2015, the Board of Supervisors of the County of San Luis Obispo (“the Board”),
pursuant to Government Code section 25217, established and formed within County Service Area No. 21 the
Road Improvement Zone - Leonard Place (“the Zone”) for the purpose of providing road improvements to
benefit the Zone if the tax payers within the Zone approve a special tax to fund the improvements. Government
Code section 25210.6a and 25215.2 authorize the Board to levy and collect a special tax within a zone of a
county service area. However, Section 2 of article XIIIC of the California Constitution requires that the
imposition, extension, or increase of any special tax be approved by a two-thirds (2/3) vote of qualified voters.

Section 4000 of the California Elections Code provides that any local, special, or consolidated election
authorized by article XIIIC of the Constitution may be conducted wholly by mail. In accordance with these
constitutional and statutory provisions, and pursuant to Government Code section 50077, the Board has
determined to submit to the voters of the Zone, the question of whether a special tax for road improvement
services shall be approved and imposed within said Zone.

In accordance with the measure, commencing fiscal year 2015/2016, and annually thereafter, the
Board shall determine the precise amount of the special tax to be levied during the ensuing fiscal year,
provided that such tax shall not exceed the maximum amount provided by the measure. The tax shall be at an
initial rate not exceeding $1,815 per parcel having a separate County Assessor’s Parcel Number, and may be
increased thereafter at not more than 2% per year. The special tax will be collected by the San Luis Obispo
County Tax Collector in the same manner and at the same time, and shall be subject to the same penalties, as
other property taxes collected by the Tax Collector. The special tax authorized by this measure will be imposed
only in the event that two-thirds (2/3) of the qualified voters vote “yes” on the measure.

/s/RITA L. NEAL
County Counsel

NO ARGUMENTS IN FAVOR OF OR AGAINST MEASURE A-15 WERE FILED

4 of 4

Exhibit A

Proposed Leonard Place Cooperative Road Improvement Zone
ban Luis Obispo County Public Works Department