FULL TEXT OF MEASURE A

NICASIO SCHOOL DISTRICT MEASURE A	
Mk MEASURE A: To maintain small class sizes, provide competitive salaries, offer instructional pro- grams that support diverse learn- ers, and fund school operations essential to these goals, should Nicasio School Distric extend its expiring parcel tax for ten year; ing July 1, 2015, increase the rate by $99 $573.46, and apply a 3% annual increase fi sequent year, with an exemption for residi owners age 65 and older?	YES
	NO
	t renew and s commenc- to a total of or each sub- snt property

COUNTY COUNSELS IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF
MEASURE A

NICASIO SCHOOL DISTRICT PARCEL TAX ELECTION

This measure was placed on the ballot by the Board of
Trustees of the Nicasio School District.

If this Measure is approved by a two-thirds vote, the
Nicasio School District will be authorized to renew and
extend its expiring parcel tax of Four Hundred Seventy
Four Dollars and Forty-Six Cents ($474.46) for ten years
commencing July 1, 2015, increase the rate by $99 to a
total of Five Hundred Seventy-Three Dollars and Forty-
Six Cents ($573.46) and apply a three percent (3%) annual
cost of living adjustment for each year after the date of
commencement. The proceeds of the tax may be used only
for the purposes set forth in the Measure.

Exemptions will be available for parcels owned and
occupied by individuals who have attained the age of 65,
as set forth in the Measure.

s/STEVEN M. WOODSIDE
County Counsel

NO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OR AGAINST
MEASURE A WAS SUBMITTED.

INTRODUCTION

To maintain small class sizes structured in appropriate
multi-grade classroom configurations, provide competitive
salaries for teachers and staff, offer instructional programs
that support diverse learners in achieving educational goals,
and fund school operations essential to ensuring these
goals, shall the Nicasio School District renew and extend
its expiring parcel tax for ten (10) years commencing July
1, 2015, increase the rate by $99 to a total of $573.46, and
apply a 3% annual cost of living adjustment for each year
after the date of commencement, with an exemption for
resident property owners age 65 and older?

STATEMENT OF PURPOSES

To provide local revenue that cannot be taken by
the State and to aid in maintaining exceptional public
education in our community school, the Nicasio School
District proposes to levy and collect a qualified special
parcel tax as described below (see “SPECIAL TAX
AND PROCEDURES”) and to implement accountability
measures in connection with the special parcel tax to
provide oversight and accountability to ensure that funds
are used to:

•	Maintain small class sizes structured in appropriate
multi-grade classroom configurations;

•	Provide competitive salaries for teachers and staff;

•	Offer instructional programs that support diverse
learners in achieving educational goals; and

•	Fund school operations essential to ensuring these
accomplishments

The Board of Trustees will utilize parcel tax proceeds
for the purposes listed above, unless the Board of Trustees
determines in any given year that changes in student
population, fiscal constraints, or other changes in state or
federal funding make doing so unfeasible or inadvisable.
In any event, the Board of Trustees will not fund any
program or reduction other than those listed above from
the proceeds of the special parcel taxes.

SPECIAL TAX

The special tax shall be increased by $99 and be levied
against each assessor’s parcel within the District at the
rate of $573.46 effective July 1, 2015 with a 3% annual
cost of living adjustment for each year after the date of
commencement through June 30, 2025.

A parcel is defined as any unit of land in the District
that receives a separate tax bill from the Marin County Tax
Collector.

PROCEDURES

Subject to two-thirds approval of the voters casting
ballots on this measure, the special tax shall become
effective as of July 1, 2015 and be collected by the Marin
County Tax Collector at the same time as and along with
all other taxes and assessments on the County’s property
tax bills. The qualified special tax shall be subject to the
same penalties as general ad valorem taxes collected by
said tax collector. The tax and penalty shall bear interest
at the same rate as the rate for unpaid ad valorem property

NSD-1

taxes until paid. Any tax levied shall become a lien upon the
properties against which taxes are assessed and collectable
as herein provided.

If approved by two-thirds of the voters casting ballots on
this measure, the special taxes so authorized will entirely
supersede and replace the special taxes authorized by the
District’s voters with the approval of Measure B in 2008.
If this measure is not so approved, then the special taxes
approved by Measure B in 2008 shall continue in effect, in
accordance with their terms.

The procedures described herein with respect to the levy
and collection of the special tax and exemptions, and any
additional procedures established by the Board of Trustees,
shall be the exclusive claims procedure for claimants
seeking an exemption, refund, reduction, or recomputation
of the special parcel tax. Whether any particular claim is
to be resolved by the District or by the County shall be
determined by the District, in coordination with the County
as necessary.

The District’s Board of Trustees may adopt such
additional or supplemental procedures as it deems necessary
or convenient for the ad ministration of the qualified special
tax.

EXEMPTIONS

Senior Citizen. A resident property owner age 65 and
older in the Nicasio School District may apply for a special
tax exemption on a parcel owned by said resident who
occupies said parcel as the person’s primary residence. Any
senior claiming an exemption must apply directly to the
District on or before July 1, 2015 or before May 1 of any
succeeding tax year. Any one approved application from a
qualified applicant will provide an exemption for the parcel
for the remaining term of the parcel tax assessment so long
as such applicant continues to qualify for the exemption.

Otherwise Exempt Property. All property that would
otherwise be exempt from property taxes shall also be
exempt from the education parcel tax.

ACCOUNTABILITY MEASURES

In accordance with the requirements of California
Government Code sections 50075.1 and 50075.3, the
following accountability measures, among others, shall
apply to the special parcel taxes levied in accordance with
this Measure: (a) the specific purposes of the special parcel
tax shall be only those purposes identified above; (b) the
proceeds of the special parcel tax shall be applied only to
those specific purposes identified above; (c) a separate,
special account shall be created into which the proceeds
of the special parcel taxes must be deposited; and (d)
an annual written report shall be made by the District’s
chief fiscal officer to the Board of Trustees of the District
showing (i) the amount of funds collected and expended
from the proceeds of the special taxes and (ii) the status of
any projects, programs, or purposes required or authorized
to be funded from the proceeds of the special taxes, as
identified above.

PROTECTION OF FUNDING

Current law forbids any decrease in State or Federal
funding to the District because of the District’s adoption

of a parcel tax. However, if any such funds are reduced
because of the adoption of this parcel tax, then the amount
of the special parcel taxes will be reduced annually as
necessary in order to restore such State or Federal funding.

SEVERABILITY

The Board of Trustees of the District hereby declares,
and the voters by approving this measure concur, that
every section, paragraph, sentence and clause of this
measure has independent value, and the Board of Trustees
and the voters would have adopted each provision hereof
regardless of every other provision hereof. Upon approval
of this measure by the voters, should any part be found
by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any
reason, all remaining parts hereof shall remain in full force
and effect to the fullest extent allowed by law.

BALLOT MEASURE ABBREVIATED FORM

“To maintain small class sizes, provide competitive
salaries, offer instructional programs that support diverse
learners, and fund school operations essential to these
goals, should Nicasio School District renew and extend its
expiring parcel tax for ten years commencing July 1, 2015,
increase the rate by $99 to a total of $573.46, and apply
a 3% annual increase for each subsequent year, with an
exemption for resident property owners age 65 and older?”

NSD-2