From SmartVoter

Measure D

Tax Increase to Maintain and Upgrade Roads
Cosumnes River Community Services District

2/3 Approval Required

Shall the Consumnes River Community Services District
increase the current annual special tax to fund
maintaining, upgrading, and improving District roads by
$100 per parcel per year such that the total tax will
increase from $150 to $250per parcel per year?

Impartial Analysis from El Dorado County Counsel

This measure, if approved by 2/3 of the voters voting on
the measure, would authorize an increase in existing
special tax on parcels of real property in the Cosumnes
River Community Services District, to be used for the
costs of maintaining, upgrading and improving roads
within the Cosumnes River Community Services District
and other lawful purposes of the District.

This special tax increase would be in the amount of $100
per year per parcel of land located within the boundaries
of Cosumnes River Community Services District. The
special tax authorized by this measure would commence
in fiscal year 2015/2016 and would increase the existing
benefit assessment of $150 currently imposed on all
parcels within the Cosumnes River Community Services
District bringing the total amount collected per parcel per
year to $250.

The special tax will be listed as a separate item on the
county property tax bill for each affected parcel of land,
and will be collected in the same way as the general
property tax. All laws applicable to the levy, collection,
and enforcement of county property taxes, including the
provisions for penalties and the procedures for sale of the
property in case of delinquency, shall also apply to the
special tax.

State law requires the proceeds from the special tax be
applied only to the identified purposes, and that an annual
report be made indicating the amount of funds collected

and expended and the status of any project required or
authorized to be funded by the proceeds.

This measure was placed on the ballot by the Board of
Directors of the Cosumnes River Community Services
District and requires an affirmative vote of 2/3 or more of
all voters voting on the measure in order to pass.

A "YES" vote is a vote to authorize the special tax
provided in the measure.

A "NO" vote is a vote against the special tax provided in
the measure.

Robyn Truitt Drivon - County Counsel El Dorado Office
of the County Counsel

Arguments For Measure D

Twenty four years ago, the Cosumnes River
District voters approved an increase in our
annual special tax from $75.00 to $150.00 per
parcel. Since then, the value of today's dollar
has decreased to $0.64 while the cost of
maintaining our roads has more than tripled.
Increased vehicle traffic on our roads is
causing them to break down at a more rapid
rate. As a result, we are unable to keep up
with the proper maintenance of the
approximate 13 miles of District roads.

We are asking that you support Measure D to
increase our District Special Tax from
$150.00 to $250.00 per year. This increase
would enable our district to provide the
maintenance and improvements necessary for
both gravel and chip and seal roads. Gravel
roads in need of repairs will continue to
receive new road base. Currently, re-
graveling costs are more than double the cost
of maintaining chip 'n seal. Existing chip 'n
seal roads will be re-chipped according to
their condition and maintenance schedule.
Measure D will enable our District to apply
new chip 'n seal on those gravel roads that
continually require re-graveling and

eventually on all our gravel roads as budget
allows.

We urge you to vote YES for Measure D.
Let's keep our roads safe and in good
condition for residents and emergency
vehicles and with the ultimate goal of 100%
chip n sealed.

Jodie S. Moran, Board Member
Stanley W. Riches, resident
Kirk Daugherty, Resident
Claudette Smith, Resident
Dave Boucke, Board Member

Arguments Against Measure D
(No arguments against were submitted)

Full Text of Measure D

RESOLUTION NO. 2015-01 OF THE COSUMNES RIVER COMMUNITY SERVICES
DISTRICT PROPOSING A BALLOT MEASURE TO INCREASE THE SPECIAL TAX TO
PROVIDE FOR MAINTAINING, UPGRADING AND IMPROVING DISTRICT ROADS
WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of the Cosumnes River Community Services District
wishes to submit to the voters of the District a proposal to increase funding for maintaining,
upgrading, and improving of District roads; and WHEREAS, Government Code § 50075 et seq.
provides authority for special districts to impose special taxes; and WHEREAS, the District
already collects a special tax of $150 per year from the owners of each parcel in the District;
and WHEREAS, the Board has determined that increasing the existing special tax rate by $100
per parcel per year is necessary in order to adequately fund maintaining, upgrading, and
improving District roads; and WHEREAS, the Board has determined that the electors within the
District should have the opportunity to decide whether the level of funding for maintaining,
upgrading, and improving District roads; and WHEREAS, Government Code § 53722 provides
that a special tax must be submitted to the electorate of the District and approved by a twothirds
vote of the voters voting on the issue. NOW THEREFORE, BE IT HEREBY RESOLVED by
the Board of Directors of the Cosumnes River Community Services District as follows:

1.	The Board shall submit to the voters the question of whether to increase the special tax within
the District for the purpose of maintaining, upgrading, and improving District roads from $150
to $250 per parcel per year.

2.	The special tax may be reduced or adjusted at the beginning of each fiscal year, commencing
(July 1, 2016), following a public hearing, by an amount not to exceed the cost of living as
determined by the Consumer Price Index (CPI) prepared by the United States Bureau of Labor
Statistics or similar indicator of inflation that may come into common and widespread use.

3.	The Cosumnes River Community Services District requests that El Dorado County Registrar
of Voters place the proposed measure before the voters of the Cosumnes River Community

Services District on November 3, 2015 election.

4.	The title of the measure shall be "Cosumnes River Community Services District Adequate
Funding Initiative."

5.	The measure shall appear on the ballot in substantially the following form: Shall the
Cosumnes River Community Services District increase the current annual special tax to fund
maintaining, upgrading, and improving District roads by $100 per parcel per year such that the
total tax will increase from $150 to $250 per parcel per year?

6.	A certified copy of this Resolution shall be delivered to the Office of the El Dorado County
Clerk and the County Clerk shall be directed to conduct said election pursuant to applicable
laws of the State of California.

7.	If approved by the electorate as set forth above, said special tax shall be levied and collected
in accordance with this resolution and shall be collected in the same manner and subject to the
same penalty as, or with, other charges and taxes fixed and collected by the District or by the
County of El Dorado.

8.	If approved by the electorate as set forth above the special tax increase set forth above shall
augment existing sources of revenue to the Cosumnes River Community Services District and
shall not apply to parcels owned by a federal or state governmental agency or another local
agency.

9.	In accordance with applicable laws, the Cosumnes River Community Services District shall
reimburse the County of El Dorado for the cost of such election.

10.	Pursuant to Government Code § 50075.1 the specific purposes of the special taxes are
hereby identified as maintaining, upgrading, and improving District roads.

11.	The proceeds of the special tax shall only be applied to the specific purposes identified
above and shall be deposited into a special account created for that purpose.

12.	The District shall prepare an annual report pursuant to Government Code § 50075.3 to
determine the amount of funds collected and expended and to identify the purposes for which
the special tax funds have been expended.

13.	In the event of any ambiguity, uncertainty or conflict regarding the application of the special
tax to a particular parcel of land,such ambiguity shall be resolved by formal motion of the
Board of Directors of the Cosumnes River Community Services District.

14.	If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause of phrase in this
measure, or any part thereof, is held invalid or unconstitutional, such decision shall not affect
the validity of the remaining sections or portions of this chapter or part thereof. The Board
hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph,
sentence, clause or phrase of this measure irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections,
subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases may be declared invalid or
unconstitutional.

15.	This measure shall take effect immediately upon its adoption.

Sample Ballot 003

OFFICIAL BALLOT

COUNTY OF EL DORADO

_____________CONSOLIDATED	DISTRICTS	ELECTION	-	NOVEMBER	3,	2015

INSTRUCTIONS TO VOTERS:

1.	Use a ballpoint pen with dark ink (not red). Do not use pencil.

2.	To vote you must completely darken the oval • to the left of your choice.

3.	Vote for no more than the number of choices allowed in each contest.

4.	Distinguishing marks may void the ballot. If you tear, deface or wrongly mark your ballot, request a replacement ballot.

VOTE LIKE THIS m

MEASURES SUBMITTED TO THE VOTERS

DISTRICT

COSUMNES RIVER COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
ADEQUATE FUNDING INITIATIVE

MEASURE D

Shall the Consumnes River Community Services District increase
the current annual special tax to fund maintaining, upgrading, and
improving District roads by $100 per parcel per year such that the
total tax will increase from $150 to $250 per parcel per year?

OYES	NO

09-SB-003

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE D

COSUMNES RIVER COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
RESOLUTION NO. 2015-01 OF THE COSUMNES RIVER COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT PROPOSING A BALLOT
MEASURE TO INCREASE THE SPECIAL TAX TO PROVIDE FOR MAINTAINING, UPGRADING AND IMPROVING

DISTRICT ROADS

WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of the Cosumnes River Community Services District wishes to submit to the voters of the District a proposal
to increase funding for maintaining, upgrading, and improving of District roads; and

WHEREAS, Government Code § 50075 et seq. provides authority for special districts to impose special taxes; and

WHEREAS, the District already collects a special tax of $150 per year from the owners of each parcel in the District; and

WHEREAS, the Board has determined that increasing the existing special tax rate by $100 per parcel per year is necessary in order to
adequately fund maintaining, upgrading, and improving District roads; and

WHEREAS, the Board has determined that the electors within the District should have the opportunity to decide whether the level of funding
for maintaining, upgrading, and improving District roads; and

WHEREAS, Government Code § 53722 provides that a special tax must be submitted to the electorate of the District and approved by a two-
thirds vote of the voters voting on the issue.

NOW THEREFORE, BE IT HEREBY RESOLVED by the Board of Directors of the Cosumnes River Community Services District as follows:

1.	The Board shall submit to the voters the question of whether to increase the special tax within the District for the purpose of
maintaining, upgrading, and improving District roads from $150 to $250 per parcel per year.

2.	The special tax may be reduced or adjusted at the beginning of each fiscal year, commencing (July 1, 2016), following a
public hearing, by an amount not to exceed the cost of living as determined by the Consumer Price Index (CPI) prepared by
the United States Bureau of Labor Statistics or similar indicator of inflation that may come into common and widespread use.

3.	The Cosumnes River Community Services District requests that El Dorado County Registrar of Voters place the proposed
measure before the voters of the Cosumnes River Community Services District on November 3, 2015 election.

4.	The title of the measure shall be “Cosumnes River Community Services District Adequate Funding Initiative.”

5.	The measure shall appear on the ballot in substantially the following form: Shall the Cosumnes River Community Services
District increase the current annual special tax to fund maintaining, upgrading, and improving District roads by $100 per
parcel per year such that the total tax will increase from $150 to $250 per parcel per year?

6.	A certified copy of this Resolution shall be delivered to the Office of the El Dorado County Clerk and the County Clerk shall
be directed to conduct said election pursuant to applicable laws of the State of California.

7.	If approved by the electorate as set forth above, said special tax shall be levied and collected in accordance with this
resolution and shall be collected in the same manner and subject to the same penalty as, or with, other charges and taxes
fixed and collected by the District or by the County of El Dorado.

8.	If approved by the electorate as set forth above the special tax increase set forth above shall augment existing sources of
revenue to the Cosumnes River Community Services District and shall not apply to parcels owned by a federal or state
governmental agency or another local agency.

9.	In accordance with applicable laws, the Cosumnes River Community Services District shall reimburse the County of El
Dorado for the cost of such election.

10.	Pursuant to Government Code § 50075.1 the specific purposes of the special taxes are hereby identified as maintaining,
upgrading, and improving District roads.

11.	The proceeds of the special tax shall only be applied to the specific purposes identified above and shall be deposited into a
special account created for that purpose.

12.	The District shall prepare an annual report pursuant to Government Code § 50075.3 to determine the amount of funds
collected and expended and to identify the purposes for which the special tax funds have been expended.

13.	In the event of any ambiguity, uncertainty or conflict regarding the application of the special tax to a particular parcel of land,
such ambiguity shall be resolved by formal motion of the Board of Directors of the Cosumnes River Community Services
District.

14.	If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause of phrase in this measure, or any part thereof, is held
invalid or unconstitutional, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining sections or portions of this chapter or
part thereof. The Board hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph,
sentence, clause or phrase of this measure irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, subdivisions, paragraphs,
sentences, clauses or phrases may be declared invalid or unconstitutional.

15.	This measure shall take effect immediately upon its adoption.

09-905

09905

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS
COSUMNES RIVER COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT SPECIAL TAX

MEASURE D

This measure, if approved by 2/3 of the voters voting on the measure, would authorize an increase in existing special tax on parcels of real
property in the Cosumnes River Community Services District, to be used for the costs of maintaining, upgrading and improving roads within the
Cosumnes River Community Services District and other lawful purposes of the District.

This special tax increase would be in the amount of $100 per year per parcel of land located within the boundaries of Cosumnes River
Community Services District. The special tax authorized by this measure would commence in fiscal year 2015/2016 and would increase the
existing benefit assessment of $150 currently imposed on all parcels within the Cosumnes River Community Services District bringing the total
amount collected per parcel per year to $250.

The special tax will be listed as a separate item on the county property tax bill for each affected parcel of land, and will be collected in the
same way as the general property tax. All laws applicable to the levy, collection, and enforcement of county property taxes, including the
provisions for penalties and the procedures for sale of the property in case of delinquency, shall also apply to the special tax.

State law requires the proceeds from the special tax be applied only to the identified purposes, and that an annual report be made indicating
the amount of funds collected and expended and the status of any project required or authorized to be funded by the proceeds.

This measure was placed on the ballot by the Board of Directors of the Cosumnes River Community Services District and requires an
affirmative vote of 2/3 or more of all voters voting on the measure in order to pass.

A “YES” vote is a vote to authorize the special tax provided in the measure.

A “NO” vote is a vote against the special tax provided in the measure.

Robyn Truitt Drivon - County Counsel
El Dorado Office of the County Counsel

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE D

Twenty four years ago, the Cosumnes River District voters approved an increase in our annual special tax from $75.00 to $150.00 per
parcel. Since then, the value of today’s dollar has decreased to $0.64 while the cost of maintaining our roads has more than tripled. Increased
vehicle traffic on our roads is causing them to break down at a more rapid rate. As a result, we are unable to keep up with the proper
maintenance of the approximate 13 miles of District roads.

We are asking that you support Measure D to increase our District Special Tax from $150.00 to $250.00 per year. This increase would
enable our district to provide the maintenance and improvements necessary for both gravel and chip and seal roads. Gravel roads in need of
repairs will continue to receive new road base. Currently, re-graveling costs are more than double the cost of maintaining chip 'n seal. Existing
chip 'n seal roads will be re-chipped according to their condition and maintenance schedule. Measure D will enable our District to apply new
chip 'n seal on those gravel roads that continually require re-graveling and eventually on all our gravel roads as budget allows.

We urge you to vote YES for Measure D. Let’s keep our roads safe and in good condition for residents and emergency vehicles and with
the ultimate goal of 100% chip n sealed.

Jodie S. Moran, Board Member
Stanley W. Riches, resident
Kirk Daugherty, Resident
Claudette Smith, Resident
Dave Boucke, Board Member

- NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE WAS SUBMITTED -

09-906

09906

HELPFUL HINTS TO MAKE ELECTION DAY EASIER

TIPS FOR PRECINCT VOTERS:

Precinct officers are citizens like you. They sincerely want to make voting easy while protecting against
voter fraud. Here are some ideas for you to make Election Day easier for all.

>	Polling Place locations may change at each election. Your polling place is listed on your voter
information card.

>	If you are not planning on voting by mail, check to make sure you know where your polling place is
located. If you are not sure how to find your polling place, check a map or call (530) 621-7480.

>	Go to the polls prepared. Read and mark your sample ballot prior to Election Day and take it with
you to refer to while you are in the voting booth. This is especially helpful with a lengthy ballot.

>	If you are a first time voter, be prepared to show identification.

TIPS FOR VOTE BY MAIL VOTERS

With all the convenience of voting by mail, there is always the possibility of having problems with your
ballot. Common problems with the vote by mail process include:

>	Not signing the ballot envelope

>	Signing the envelope with a scribble instead of your signature used when registering to vote

>	Signing both yours and a family members envelope

These common problems can be largely avoided by remembering to take one quick look over the
envelopes before mailing or dropping them off, to ensure they are all signed next to the red “X”, and signed
by the right person.

If you are concerned that your signature has changed, drop off your ballot in person and fill out a voter
registration card at the same time, to ensure your most recent signature is on file.

PROVISIONAL VOTING AT THE POLLING PLACE

California has a provisional voting process to handle voters whose eligibility to vote cannot be determined
at the polling place. The precinct officer will provide the voter a provisional ballot and written instructions
regarding the process. After voting and securing the ballot in the provisional ballot envelope the voter will
be handed the Voter Receipt from the back of the Provisional Envelope. After the election, the voter may
use the receipt to call the El Dorado County Elections Office at (800) 730-4322 to find out whether their
provisional ballot was counted, and if not, why.

Reasons for provisional voting:

1.

2.

3.

4.

The voter’s name is not listed on the Active or Inactive Voter Roster List at the precinct.

The voter has moved within the county but did not re-register to vote.

The voter who’s name is listed on the Active Voter Roster List as receiving an Absentee
Ballot but, for whatever reason, is unable to surrender it.

The Voter is listed on the Active Voter Roster List and is required to show proof of
identification for being a First Time Federal Election Voter but is unable to show proof.

09-FP-03

09FP03