Santa Cruz County, CA
November 17, 2015 Election
Measure P

Small Class Size and Academic Achievement Act
Santa Cruz City Elementary School District
Parcel Tax Renewal - 2/3 Approval Required

ELECTION RESULTS

Pass:	8,499	76.6%	Yes	votes

2,596	23.4%	No	votes

BALLOT QUESTION

To protect the quality of education in local elementary schools, attract and retain highly qualified
teachers, continue science programs, arts and music instruction, maintain smaller class sizes,
provide library services and prevent existing school funding from expiring, shall Santa Cruz City
Elementary School District renew its $105 parcel tax for a period of 8 years without raising the
tax rate, including an exemption for senior citizens, independent citizen oversight, and all funds
staying local to benefit Santa Cruz elementary schools?

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS FROM ASSISTANT COUNTY COUNSEL

If this measure is approved by at least two-thirds of those voting on it, the Santa Cruz City High
School District ("the School District") will be authorized to levy a special tax on real property.

The tax would be imposed for eight years beginning July 1, 2016, at the rate of $72 per year on
each parcel -- as defined by the measure -- within the School District.

Previously voters of the School District approved an eight-year parcel tax (Measure I) on parcels
within the District at the rate of $38 per year, ending in 2021. The measure presently before the
voters does not affect that existing parcel tax and if approved it would overlap with that tax for a
period of time in which both parcel taxes would be owing; that is, the new tax would be in
addition to the existing tax from 2016 to 2021.

The proceeds of the special tax, if approved, may be applied only to the purposes set out in the
full text of Measure O which is printed in this pamphlet. It may not be used for administrative
salaries.

In accordance with State law, the School District Board would implement accountability
measures if the tax is approved. It would create a separate fund into which the proceeds of the
special tax shall be deposited. An annual written report would show the amount of the special
taxes which have been collected and expended, and the status of projects to be funded from
those proceeds. An independent community oversight committee would monitor expenditures
funded by this tax.

The special parcel tax is to be collected in the same manner as those property taxes which are
based upon property value.

The measure adjusts the appropriations limit of the District by the amount collected through this
parcel tax.

A property owner who is 65 years of age or older before July 1 of the tax year may apply for an
exemption from the tax if the property is used as his or her principal place of residence.

Specified recipients of SSI and SSDI benefits may also apply for exemption. Once
granted, the exemption will continue for the term of the tax so long as the applicant remains
eligible.

A "yes" vote is to approve imposition of the special parcel tax.

A "no" vote is against imposition of the special parcel tax.

ARGUMENTS FOR MEASURE P

If you value protecting the quality of local schools + whether to prepare students for college and
successful careers, keep kids safe and engaged in school, or simply to protect your property
values - Measure O deserves your YES VOTE.

Our local secondary schools work hard to prepare students from Santa Cruz, Soquel, Live Oak,
Capitola, Bonnie Doon, Happy Valley and surrounding communities for college and career
success. The high quality education at Branciforte and Mission Hill Middle Schools, and Harbor,
Santa Cruz, and Soquel High Schools includes advanced courses and enrichment in math,
science, technology, the arts, and career training.

But State and County budget cuts are taking their toll, eliminating funding for secondary
programs that contribute to a well-rounded education.

As college admissions standards continue to rise, we need to give our kids a competitive edge
by maintaining these important educational programs.

Measure O will:

Support science, technology, and engineering educational initiatives
Preserve Career Technical Education (ROP) programs
Continue visual and performing arts enrichment

Support athletic programs that keep kids safe, healthy, and engaged in school

Measure O is a wise investment. ALL Measure O funds stay LOCAL to support middle and high
school classroom instruction and after-school programs. The cost is modest, just $6 a month for
property owners, and it's temporary, lasting only eight years. By law, these funds CANT
be taken away by the State or be used for other purposes. An independent Citizens' Oversight
Committee ensures funds are spent as promised.

Measure O provides an exemption for senior citizens.

If we want our kids to be prepared for college and career success, they need to have a high
quality education. Measure O will help.

Teachers, parents, civic and business leaders throughout our community URGE YOUR
SUPPORT.

Please VOTE YES on O - for our local middle and high schools.
http://www.FriendsOfSantaCruzSchools.com
s/ John Leopold, Santa Cruz County Supervisor

s/ Michael Watkins, Superintendent Santa Cruz County Office of Education
s/ Geoffrey Dunn, Writer, Historian & Lifelong Resident
s/ Kathy Ferraro, Parent at Harbor High

s/ Leif L. "Hal" Rovick, Career Technical Education Instructor at Soquel High

ARGUMENTS AGAINST MEASURE P

(No arguments against were submitted)

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE P

To protect the quality of education in local elementary schools, attract and retain highly qualified
teachers, continue science programs, arts and music instruction, maintain smaller class sizes,
provide library services and prevent existing school funding from expiring, the shall Santa Cruz
City Elementary School District shall renew its $105 parcel tax for a period of 8 years without
raising the tax rate, including an exemption for senior citizens, independent citizen oversight,
and all funds staying local to benefit Santa Cruz elementary schools.

Accordingly, moneys raised under this Measure shall be authorized to be used for the following
purposes in accordance with priorities established by the Board and to the extent of available
funds:

(a)	Protecting small class sizes;

(b)	Funding elementary school science instruction;

(c)	Supporting early literacy instruction programs for elementary students and pre-kindergarten
programs;

(d)	Retaining credentialed librarians, library assistants, teachers and other employees; and

(e)	Providing arts education, teachers and supplies, including music, performing and visual arts.

No parcel tax funds will be spent on administrative salaries.

A.	Amount and Basis of Tax

The District's expiring parcel tax for elementary education began in 2003, and was renewed in
2008 at the rate of $105 per parcel for a period of 8 years. The special tax authorized by this
measure shall commence July 1, 2016 and replace the final year of levy of the 2008 Measure P
tax and continue the tax levy of $105 per Parcel of Taxable Real Property for a period of eight
(8) years, though June 30, 2024.

To the extent allowed by law, "Parcel of Taxable Real Property" shall be defined as:

(a)	Any unit of real property in the District that receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem
property taxes from the County Tax Collector.

(b)	All property that is otherwise exempt from or upon which are levied no ad valorem property
taxes in any year shall not be considered a Parcel of Taxable Real Property for purposes of the
special tax in such year.

(c)	Multiple parcels which are contiguous, under common ownership, and that constitute one
economic unit, meaning that they have the same primary purpose as the principal parcel and
are not separate and distinct properties that may be independently developed or sold, shall
comprise a single Parcel of Taxable Real Property for purposes of the special tax.

If any portion of this definition is deemed contrary to law, the Board declares and the voters by
approving the Measure concur, that every other section and part of this definition has
independent value, and the Board and voters would have adopted each other section and part
here of regardless of every other section or part hereof. If all sections or parts of this definition
are deemed contrary to law, "Parcel of Taxable Real Property" shall be defined as any real
property in the District assigned an assessor's parcel number. This special tax does not effect
the continued authorization to levy a special tax of $85 per parcel for eight years as approved by
voters in 2012.

B.	Exemptions

Under procedures adopted by the District, upon application or confirmation of a continuing
exemption, an exemption from payment of the special tax may be granted on any parcel owned
by one or more persons who is/are:

1.	An individual who will attain 65 years of age prior to July 1 of the tax year, owns a beneficial
interest in the parcel, and uses that parcel as his or her principal place of residence ("Senior
Citizen Exemption").

2.	Receiving Supplemental Security Income for a disability, regardless of age and occupying
said parcel as a principal residence ("SSI Exemption"); or

3.	Receiving Social Security Disability Insurance benefits, regardless of age, whose yearly
income does not exceed 250 percent of the 2012 federal poverty guidelines issued by the
United States Department of Health and Human Services ("SSDI Exemption").

Any one application from a qualified applicant will provide an exemption for the parcel for the
remaining term of the tax so long as such applicant continues to own and use the parcel as his
or her principal residence.

The District shall annually provide to the Santa Cruz County Tax Collector ("County Tax
Collector") or other appropriate County official a list of parcels that the District has approved for
an exemption.

C.	Claims / Exemption Procedures With respect to all general property tax matters within its
jurisdiction, the County Tax Collector or other appropriate County tax official shall make all final
determinations of tax exemption or relief for any reason, and that decision shall be final and
binding. With respect to matters specific to the levy of the special tax, including qualification for
exemptions, the application of the definition of "Parcel of Taxable Real Property" to any

parcel(s), the legality or validity of the special tax, or any other disputed matter specific to the
application of the special tax, the decisions of the District shall be final and binding. The
procedures described herein, and any additional procedures established by the Board shall be
the exclusive claims procedure for claimants seeking an exemption, refund, reduction, or re-
computation of the special tax. Whether any particular claim is to be resolved by the District or
by the County shall be determined by the District, in coordination with the County as necessary.

D.	Appropriations Limit

Pursuant to California Constitution article XIIIB and applicable laws, the appropriations limit for
the District will be adjusted periodically by the aggregate sum collected by levy of this special
tax.

E.	Mandatory Accountability Protections

1.	Specific Purposes. The proceeds of the special tax shall be applied only to the specific
purposes identified above.

2.	Annual Reports. The proceeds of the special tax shall be deposited into an account, which
shall be kept separate and apart from other accounts of the District, pursuant to the Government
Code. No later than December 31 of each year while the tax is in effect, the District shall
prepare and file with the Board a report detailing the amount of funds collected and expended
during the prior fiscal year, and the status of any project authorized to be funded by this
measure. The report may relate to the calendar year, fiscal year, or other appropriate annual
period, as said officer shall determine, and may be incorporated into or filed with the annual
budget, audit, or other appropriate routine report to the Board.

3.Independent Citizens' Oversight Committee. In accordance with District policy, the
independent community oversight committee that has been appointed by the Board of
Education to oversee all expenditures funded by existing parcel taxes will continue to audit all
funds in order to ensure that said funds are spent appropriately and used only for the purposes
approved by the voters. The oversight committee shall monitor the expenditures of these funds
by the District and shall report on an annual basis to the community on how these funds have
been spent.

F.	Protection of Funding

Current law forbids any decrease in State or federal funding to the District resulting from the
adoption of an education parcel tax. However, if any such funding is reduced or affected
because of the adoption of this local funding measure, then the Board may reduce the amount
of the special taxes levied as necessary in order to restore such State or federal funding and/or
maximize the District's fiscal position for the benefit of the educational program. As a result,
whether directly or indirectly, no funding from this measure may be taken away by the State or
federal governments.

G.	Severability

The Board hereby declares, and the voters by approving this Measure concur, that every
section and part of this Measure has independent value, and the Board and the voters would
have adopted each provision hereof regardless of every other provision hereof. Upon approval
of this Measure by the voters, should any part of the Measure or taxing formula be found by a
court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, all remaining parts of the Measure or
taxing formula hereof shall remain in full force and effect to the fullest extent allowed by law.

Ballot Type 1

Special All-Mail Ballot Election
Santa Cruz City School District
Tuesday, November 17, 2015

This election is conducted only with ballots mailed to all registered voters within the
Santa Cruz City High School District.

The last day to register to vote in this election is November 2. registertovote.ca.gov

The enclosed ballot is the only one you will receive.

If you lose your ballot or make a mistake you may request a new one.

What’s in this guide

How to vote by mail & Election Day Voter Assistance Centers page 1

Information about Measure O

page 3

Santa Cruz County Elections Department

701 Ocean Street, Room 210, Santa Cruz
Open Monday—Friday, 8am to 5pm

Information: 831-454-2060
Toll Free: 866-282-5900
TDD: 831-454-2123
FAX: 831-454-2445

www.votescount.com

info@votescount.com

Informacion en espanol al otro lado ^

Ballot Type 1

Informacion Para el Votante

Eleccion Especial de Boletas Enviadas por Correo
Distrito Escolar de la Ciudad de Santa Cruz
Martes, 17 de noviembre de 2015

Esta eleccion se llevara a cabo solamente por medio de boletas enviadas por correo a
todos los votantes registrados dentro del Distrito Escolar de las escuelas secundarias de
la Ciudad de Santa Cruz.

El ultimo dfa para registrarse para votar en esta eleccion es el 2 de noviembre.
registertovote.ca.gov

La boleta incluida es la unica que recibira.

Si usted pierde su boleta o comete un error, puede solicitar una nueva.

Lo que hay en esta gui'a

Como votar por correo y Centros de Asistencia para el

Dfa de las Elecciones	pagina	1

Informacion sobre medida O	pagina	3

A fin de preparar mejor a los estudiantes de las escuelas medias y secundarias
locales para el exito en el colegio y las carreras profesionales, idebe el Distrito
de Escuelas Secundarias de la Ciudad de Santa Cruz preservar la instruccion y
los programas extracurriculares en Educacion Tecnica Profesional, ciencia,
tecnologia, ingenieria y artes interpretativas, y apoyar los programas deportivos
para mantener a los ninos seguros, saludables e involucrados con la escuela,
estableciendo un impuesto a la parcela de $72 por ano durante 8 anos
unicamente, con exenciones para ciudadanos mayores, supervision ciudadana
independiente, y que todos los fondos sean para beneficiar a las escuelas
medias y secundarias locales?

1

How to vote by mail

Make your vote-by-mail ballot count!

Mark your ballot

Use a blue or black ballpoint pen.

Use a single line to connect the head and tail of the arrow that points to your choice.

If you lose your ballot or make a mistake, you may request a new ballot. You can:

|i Call the Elections Department at 831-454-2060

|2 For a new ballot, email 2ndballot@votescount.com

For assistance, email info@votescount.com

Sign and date the envelope

Remove the top stub from your ballot by tearing at the perforated line.

Place the ballot in the green postage-paid return envelope provided.

Write the address where you live in Santa Cruz County on the envelope in the space provided.

Sign your name on the envelope. If you do not sign your envelope, we cannot count your ballot.

If you cannot sign your name, make a mark and have a witness sign in the line provided.

Do not let someone else sign your name for you.

Write the date you signed the envelope.

How to return your vote-by-mail ballot

To be counted your ballot must be postmarked on or before Election Day, November 17 and received by
the Elections Department by Friday, November 20. To return your ballot, you can:

Mail your ballot early to be sure it is received on time

Send it by mail to the address on the return envelope. This election is being conducted only with vote-by-
mail ballots, so the postage is paid.

-	OR -

Drop it off at the 24-hour drop box by 8pm on Election Day

Use the white mail box in front of the County Building

•	County Government Center, 701 Ocean Street, Santa Cruz

-	OR -

Return it in person before and including Election Day

You may personally drop it off at one of the locations below or you can have a relative or someone who
lives with you drop it off.

•	County Elections: 701 Ocean St., Room 210	Mon - Fri, 8am—5pm	831-454-2060

•	Santa Cruz City Clerk: 809 Center St.	Mon - Fri, 8am—noon, lpm—5pm	831-420-5030

•	Capitola City Clerk: 420 Capitola Ave.	Mon-Fri, 8am—noon, lpm—5pm	831-475-7300

-	OR -

Return it in person on Election Day

Two locations are open on Election Day from 7am—8pm to assist voters

•	County Elections: 701 Ocean St., Room 210, Santa Cruz

•	Congregational Church of Soquel: 4951 Soquel Drive, Soquel

School District Special Election • Santa Cruz County • Tuesday, November 17, 2015

iHaga que su boleta de voto por correo cuente!

Marque su boleta

Use un boligrafo con tinta azul o negra.

Use una sola linea que conecte la cabeza y la cola de la flecha que senale su seleccion.

Si usted pierde su boleta o comete un error, puede solicitar una nueva boleta. Usted puede:
Q Llamar al departamento de elecciones 831-454-2060

|?| Para una boleta nueva, mande correo electronico 2ndballot@votescount.com
Para asistencia, mande correo electronico info@votescount.com

Firme y feche el sobre

Remueva el talon superior de su boleta desgarrarlo en la linea perforada.

Coloque la boleta en el sobre verde con franqueo pagado proporcionado.

Escriba la direccion de donde usted vive en el condado de Santa Cruz en el sobre en el espacio proporcionado.

Firme su nombre en el sobre. Si usted no firma el sobre, no podemos contar con su voto.

Si no puede firmar su nombre, haga una marca y que un testigo firme en la linea proporcionada.

No permita que otra persona firme su nombre por usted.

Escriba la fecha en que firmo el sobre.

Como regresar su boleta de voto por correo

Para que su boleta cuente, debe tener el sello postal en el dfa o antes del dia de las elecciones, 17 de
noviembre y ser recibida por el Departamento de Elecciones hasta el viernes, 20 de noviembre. Para regresar
su boleta, puede:

Enviar por correo su boleta de votacion anticipadamente para asegurar que se reciba a tiempo

Envie por correo a la direccion en el sobre de retorno. Esta eleccion se llevara a cabo unicamente por voto
por boletas por correo, asf que el franqueo es pagado.

-	O -

Deposftelo en el buzon de 24 horas hasta las 8pm en el dfa de las elecciones

Utilice el buzon de correo bianco que esta enfrente del edificio del condado.

•	County Government Center, 701 Ocean Street, Santa Cruz

-	O -

Regreselo personalmente antes e incluyendo el dfa de las elecciones

Puede dejarlo personalmente en una de las localizaciones anotadas abajo o puede dejar que un pariente
o alguien que viva con usted lo entreguen por usted.

•	County Elections: 701 Ocean St., Room 210	lun-vie, 8am—5pm	831-454-2060

•	Santa Cruz City Clerk: 809 Center St.	lun-vie,	8am—noon,	lpm—5pm	831-420-5030

•	Capitola City Clerk: 420 Capitola Ave.	lun-vie,	8am—noon,	lpm—5pm	831-475-7300

-	O -

Regreselo personalmente en el dfa de la eleccion

Dos lugares estan abiertos en la jornada electoral de 7am-8pm para asistir a los votantes

•	County Elections: 701 Ocean St., Room 210, Santa Cruz

•	Congregational Church of Soquel: 4951 Soquel Drive, Soquel

School District Special Election • Santa Cruz County • Tuesday, November 17, 2015

3

Local ballot measure: 0

Measure 0 Santa Cruz City High School District

Summary

To better prepare local middle and high school students for college and career success, shall Santa
Cruz City High School District preserve instructional and after-school programs in Career Technical
Education, science, technology, engineering and performing arts, and support athletic programs to
keep kids safe, healthy and engaged in school, by establishing a parcel tax of $72 per year for 8 years
only, with exemptions for senior citizens, independent citizen oversight, and all funds benefitting local

middle and high schools?	
What your vote means	
YES	NO
A "yes" vote on this measure authorizes the Santa Cruz City High School District to levy a special tax on real property. The tax would be imposed for eight years beginning July 1, 2016, at the rate of $72 per year on each parcel. The measure requires 2/3 vote for passage.	A "no" vote on this measure is against imposition of the special parcel tax.

For and against Measure O

FOR	AGAINST
John Leopold  Santa Cruz County Supervisor	No argument against was filed.
Michael Watkins  Superintendent Santa Cruz County Office of Education	
Geoffrey Dunn  Writer, Historian & Lifelong Resident	
Kathy Ferraro  Parent at Harbor High	
Leif L. "Hal" Rovick  Career Technical Education Instructor at Soquel High	

Measure 0 continues on page 2 with the argument for, impartial analysis, and the full text of the measure.

School District Special Election • Santa Cruz County • Tuesday, November 17, 2015

Local ballot measure: 0

Argument in favor of Measure 0	Argument against Measure 0
If you value protecting the quality of local schools - whether to prepare students for college and successful careers, keep kids safe and engaged in school, or simply to protect your property values -Measure O deserves your YES VOTE.  Our local secondary schools work hard to prepare students from Santa Cruz, Soquel, Live Oak, Capitola, Bonnie Doon, Happy Valley and surrounding communities for college and career success. The high quality education at Branciforte and Mission Hill Middle Schools, and Harbor, Santa Cruz, and Soquel High Schools includes advanced courses and enrichment in math, science, technology, the arts, and career training.  But State and County budget cuts are taking their toll, eliminating funding for secondary programs that contribute to a well-rounded education. As college admissions standards continue to rise, we need to give our kids a competitive edge by maintaining these important educational programs.  Measure 0 will:  •	Support science, technology, and engineering educational initiatives  •	Preserve Career Technical Education (ROP) programs  •	Continue visual and performing arts enrichment  •	Support athletic programs that keep kids safe, healthy, and engaged in school  Measure 0 is a wise investment. ALL Measure O funds stay LOCAL to support middle and high school classroom instruction and after-school programs. The cost is modest, just $6 a month for property owners, and it's temporary, lasting only eight years. By law, these funds CANT be taken away by the State or be used for other purposes. An independent Citizens' Oversight Committee ensures funds are spent as promised.  Measure 0 provides an exemption for senior citizens.  If we want our kids to be prepared for college and career success, they need to have a high quality education. Measure 0 will help.  Teachers, parents, civic and business leaders throughout our community URGE YOUR SUPPORT.  Please VOTE YES on 0 - for our local middle and high schools.  www.FriendsOfSantaCruzSchools.com  s/John Leopold, Santa Cruz County Supervisor s/Michael Watkins, Superintendent Santa Cruz County Office of Education  s/Geoffrey Dunn, Writer, Historian & Lifelong Resident s/Kathy Ferraro, Parent at Harbor High s/Leif L. "Hal" Rovick, Career Technical Education Instructor at Soquel High	No argument against was filed.

School District Special Election • Santa Cruz County • Tuesday, November 17, 2015

Local ballot measure: 0

5

Impartial analysis of Measure 0

Dana McRae, County Counsel

Jane M. Scott, Assistant County Counsel

If this measure is approved by at least two-thirds of those voting on it, the Santa Cruz City High School District
("the School District") will be authorized to levy a special tax on real property. The tax would be imposed for
eight years beginning July 1, 2016, at the rate of $72 per year on each parcel -- as defined by the measure --
within the School District.

Previously voters of the School District approved an eight-year parcel tax (Measure I) on parcels within the
District at the rate of $38 per year, ending in 2021. The measure presently before the voters does not affect that
existing parcel tax and if approved it would overlap with that tax for a period of time in which both parcel taxes
would be owing; that is, the new tax would be in addition to the existing tax from 2016 to 2021.

The proceeds of the special tax, if approved, may be applied only to the purposes set out in the full text of
Measure O which is printed in this pamphlet. It may not be used for administrative salaries.

In accordance with State law, the School District Board would implement accountability measures if the tax is
approved. It would create a separate fund into which the proceeds of the special tax shall be deposited. An
annual written report would show the amount of the special taxes which have been collected and expended, and
the status of projects to be funded from those proceeds. An independent community oversight committee would
monitor expenditures funded by this tax.

The special parcel tax is to be collected in the same manner as those property taxes which are based upon
property value.

The measure adjusts the appropriations limit of the District by the amount collected through this parcel tax.

A property owner who is 65 years of age or older before July 1 of the tax year may apply for an exemption from
the tax if the property is used as his or her principal place of residence. Specified recipients of SSI and SSDI
benefits may also apply for exemption. Once granted, the exemption will continue for the term of the tax so long
as the applicant remains eligible.

A "yes" vote is to approve imposition of the special parcel tax.

A "no" vote is against imposition of the special parcel tax.

School District Special Election • Santa Cruz County • Tuesday, November 17, 2015

6

Local ballot measure: 0

Full text of Measure 0

Santa Cruz City High School District Protection of Quality Education Act

To better prepare local middle and high school students for college and career success, the Santa Cruz City High
School District shall preserve instructional and after-school programs in Career Technical Education, science,
technology, engineering and performing arts, and support athletic programs to keep kids safe, healthy and
engaged in school, by establishing a parcel tax of $72 per year for 8 years only, with exemptions for senior
citizens, independent citizen oversight, and all funds benefitting local middle and high schools.

Accordingly, moneys raised under this Measure shall be authorized to be used for the following purposes in
accordance with priorities established by the Board and to the extent of available funds:

(a)	Supporting career-technical education, STEM (science, technology, engineering and math) programs, visual
and performing arts and job-training instructional programs;

(b)	Preserving after-school athletic and enrichment programs in middle and high schools to protect student
safety, health and well-being.

No parcel tax funds will be spent on administrative salaries.

A.	Amount and Basis of Tax

This special tax shall authorize the Santa Cruz City High School District to levy a special tax of $72 per Parcel of
Taxable Real Property beginning in July 1, 2016, and continuing for a period of eight (8) years.

To the extent allowed by law "Parcel of Taxable Real Property" shall be defined as:

(a)	Any unit of real property in the District that receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem property taxes from the
County Tax Collector.

(b)	All property that is otherwise exempt from or upon which are levied no ad valorem property taxes in any year
shall not be considered a Parcel of Taxable Real Property for purposes of the special tax in such year.

(c)	Multiple parcels which are contiguous, under common ownership, and that constitute one economic unit,
meaning that they have the same primary purpose as the principal parcel and are not separate and distinct
properties that may be independently developed or sold, shall comprise a single Parcel of Taxable Real Property
for purposes of the special tax.

If any portion of this definition is deemed contrary to law, the Board declares and the voters by approving the
Measure concur, that every other section and part of this definition has independent value, and the Board and
voters would have adopted each other section and part hereof regardless of every other section or part hereof. If
all sections or parts of this definition are deemed contrary to law, "Parcel of Taxable Real Property" shall be
defined as any real property in the District assigned an assessor's parcel number.

This special tax does not effect the continued authorization to levy a special tax of $38 per parcel for eight years
as approved by District voters in 2012.

B.	Exemptions

Under procedures adopted by the District, upon application or confirmation of a continuing exemption, an
exemption from payment of the special tax may be granted on any parcel owned by one or more persons who
is/are:

1.	An individual who will attain 65 years of age prior to July 1 of the tax year, owns a beneficial interest in the
parcel, and uses that parcel as his or her principal place of residence ("Senior Citizen Exemption").

2.	Receiving Supplemental Security Income for a disability, regardless of age and occupying said parcel as a
principal residence ("SSI Exemption"); or

3.	Receiving Social Security Disability Insurance benefits, regardless of age, whose yearly income does not
exceed 250 percent of the 2012 federal poverty guidelines issued by the United States Department of Health and
Human Services ("SSDI Exemption").

Any one application from a qualified applicant will provide an exemption for the parcel for the remaining term of
the tax so long as such applicant continues to own and use the parcel as his or her principal residence.

School District Special Election • Santa Cruz County • Tuesday, November 17, 2015

Local ballot measure: O

7

The District shall annually provide to the Santa Cruz County Tax Collector ("County Tax Collector") or other
appropriate County official a list of parcels that the District has approved for an exemption.

C.	Claims / Exemption Procedures

With respect to all general property tax matters within its jurisdiction, the County Tax Collector or other
appropriate County tax official shall make all final determinations of tax exemption or relief for any reason, and
that decision shall be final and binding. With respect to matters specific to the levy of the special tax, including
the Senior Citizen Exemption, the application of the definition of "Parcel of Taxable Real Property" to any
parcel(s), the legality or validity of the special tax, or any other disputed matter specific to the application of the
special tax, the decisions of the District shall be final and binding. The procedures described herein, and any
additional procedures established by the Board shall be the exclusive claims procedure for claimants seeking an
exemption, refund, reduction, or re-computation of the special tax. Whether any particular claim is to be
resolved by the District or by the County shall be determined by the District, in coordination with the County as
necessary.

D.	Appropriations Limit

Pursuant to California Constitution article XIIIB and applicable laws, the appropriations limit for the District will
be adjusted periodically by the aggregate sum collected by levy of this special tax.

E.	Mandatory Accountability Protections

1.	Specific Purposes. The proceeds of the special tax shall be applied only to the specific purposes identified
above.

2.	Annual Reports. The proceeds of the special tax shall be deposited into an account, which shall be kept
separate and apart from other accounts of the District, pursuant to the Government Code. No later than
December 31 of each year while the tax is in effect, the District shall prepare and file with the Board a report
detailing the amount of funds collected and expended during the prior fiscal year, and the status of any project
authorized to be funded by this measure. The report may relate to the calendar year, fiscal year, or other
appropriate annual period, as said officer shall determine, and may be incorporated into or filed with the annual
budget, audit, or other appropriate routine report to the Board.

3.	independent Citizens' Oversight Committee. The independent community oversight committee that has been
appointed by the Board of Education to oversee all expenditures funded by parcel taxes will continue to audit all
funds in order to ensure that said funds are spent wisely and used only for the purposes approved by the voters.
The oversight committee shall monitor the expenditures of these funds by the District and shall report on an
annual basis to the community on how these funds have been spent.

F.	Protection of Funding

Current law forbids any decrease in State or federal funding to the District resulting from the adoption of an
education parcel tax. However, if any such funding is reduced or affected because of the adoption of this local
funding measure, then the Board may reduce the amount of the special taxes levied as necessary in order to
restore such State or federal funding and/or maximize the District's fiscal position for the benefit of the
educational program. As a result, whether directly or indirectly, no funding from this measure may be taken away
by the State or federal governments.

G.	Severability

The Board hereby declares, and the voters by approving this Measure concur, that every section and part of this
Measure has independent value, and the Board and the voters would have adopted each provision hereof
regardless of every other provision hereof. Upon approval of this Measure by the voters, should any part of the
Measure or taxing formula be found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, all
remaining parts of the Measure or taxing formula hereof shall remain in full force and effect to the fullest extent
allowed by law.

School District Special Election • Santa Cruz County • Tuesday, November 17, 2015

Local ballot measure: 0

This page intentionally left blank.

School District Special Election • Santa Cruz County • Tuesday, November 17, 2015

Update your voter information

9

Use the top of the form to correct the information we have about your voter registration. Use the
middle of the form to tell us what you need to make voting better for you. You can also use this form
to apply to be an election officer by filling in the bottom part. Remember to sign and date the form.

Fill out the form, scan and Email to: info@votescount.com
Or Mail it to:

Santa Cruz County Elections Department
701 Ocean Street, Room 210
Santa Cruz, CA 95060

Voter Information

Name:	Email:	
Address where 1 live:		Birthdate:
City:	State:	ZIP code:

□ I want to be a permanent vote-by-mail voter. □ Please update my registration.

Mailing address (if different from the address where you live)	□	My	name	is	misspelled.	It	should	be:

Address:

Cjty:	State:	ZIP:	□	I	have	moved	within	Santa	Cruz	County.

_______________________________________________________________________ My	new	home	address	is:

Country:

□	Change how I get my Sample Ballot & Voter
Information Pamphlet

□	I will get it online. I no longer want to receive it in the
mail

□	I want my voting materials in the language below in
addition to the English version

□Spanish (en espanol) □Chinese	OTagalog

□	I want to be an Election Officer in 2016
(check all that apply)

□	I am fluent in English.

□	I am also fluent in:

□	I have my own transportation.

□ Please cancel my voter registration

□	I have moved out of the State.

□	The voter named above is deceased.

□	Other reason:

□	I am willing to travel to serve outside my
neighborhood.

□	I have a space that could be used as a polling place

We must have your signature. Do not print.

I certify under penalty of perjury that this information is true and correct.

Signature:

Date: