ORDINANCE NO. 0-15-1295

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF SAN MARINO RE-ADOPTING AND
AMENDING THE CITY’S UTILITY USER TAX, REDUCING THE CAP
ON THE UTILITY USER TAX FROM SIX PERCENT TO FIVE
PERCENT AND AMENDING ARTICLE 03 OF CHAPTER 26 OF THE
SAN MARINO MUNICIPAL CODE

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF SAN MARINO ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1. Article 03 of Chapter 26 of the San Marino Municipal Code, the existing
Utility User Tax of the City of San Marino, is hereby re-adopted and amended to read as follows:

ARTICLE 03
UTILITY USER TAX

SECTION:

26.03.	.01
26.03,	.02
26.03.	.03
26.03,	.04
26.03.	.05
26.03,	.06
26.03.	.07
26.03.	.08
26.03.	.09
26.03	.10
26.03	.11
26.03	.12
26.03	.13
26.03	.14
26.03	.15
26.03	.16
26.03	.17
26.03	.18
26.03	.19
26.03	.20
26.03	.21
26.03	.22
26.03	.23
26.03	.24
26.03	.26

Title and Purpose

Definitions

Exemptions

Telecommunications User Tax
Video User Tax
Electricity User Tax
Gas User Tax

Service Users Receiving Direct Purchase of Gas or Electricity
Water User Tax

Effect of Commingling Taxable Items with Nontaxable Items
Substantial Nexus/Minimum Contacts
Duty to Collect—Procedures

Collection Penalties; Service Suppliers or Self-Collectors
Deficiency Determination and Assessment; Tax Application Errors
Administrative remedy—Non-paying service users
Actions to Collect

Additional powers and duties of the Tax Administrator

Records

Refunds

Appeals

No Injunction/Writ of Mandate
Remedies cumulative
Notice of changes to ordinance
Future Amendment to Cited Statute

No Increase in Tax Percentage or Change in Methodology without Voter
Approval; Amendment or Repeal

26.03.01

TITLE AND PURPOSE:

This Article shall be known as the Utility Tax Ordinance for the City. This Article is enacted
solely to raise revenue for the general governmental purposes of the City. All of the proceeds
from the tax imposed by this Article shall be placed in the City’s general fund and used for the
usual and current expenses of the City.

26.03.02 DEFINITIONS:

The following words and phrases, whenever used in this Article, shall be construed as defined in
this Section:

Ancillary telecommunication services shall mean services that are associated with or
incidental to the provision, use or enjoyment of telecommunications services, including but not
limited to the following services:

a.	Conference bridging service shall mean an ancillary service that links two (2) or
more participants of an audio or video conference call and may include the
provision of a telephone number. Conference bridging service does not include
the telecommunications services used to reach the conference bridge.

b.	Detailed telecommunications billing service shall mean an ancillary service of
separately stating information pertaining to individual calls on a customer’s
billing statement.

c.	Directory assistance shall mean an ancillary service of providing telephone
number information, and/or address information.

d.	Vertical service shall mean an ancillary service that is offered in connection with
one (1) or more telecommunications services, which offers advanced calling
features that allow customers to identify callers and to manage multiple calls and
call connections, including conference bridging services.

e.	Voice mail service shall mean an ancillary service that enables the customer to
store, send or receive recorded messages. Voice mail service does not include
any vertical services that the customer may be required to have in order to utilize
the voice mail service.

Ancillary video services means services that are associated with or incidental to the
provision or delivery of video services, including but not limited to electronic program guide
services, recording services, search functions, or other interactive services or communications
that are associated with or incidental to the provision, use or enjoyment of video services.

Billing address shall mean the mailing address of the service user where the service
provider submits invoices or bills for payment by the service users.

City shall mean the City of San Marino.

City Manager shall mean the City Manager, or his or her authorized representative.

Gas shall mean natural or manufactured gas or any alternative hydrocarbon fuel which
may be substituted therefore.

Mobile telecommunications service shall mean commercial mobile radio service, as
defined in Section 20.3 of Title 47 of the Code of Federal Regulations, and as set forth in the
Mobile Telecommunications Sourcing Act (4 U.S.C. Section 124) and the regulations there
under.

Month shall mean a calendar month.

Non-utility service supplier shall mean:

a.	A service supplier, other than a supplier of electric distribution services to all or a
significant portion of the City , which generates electricity for the sale to others,
and shall include but not be limited to any publicly-owned electric utility,
investor-owned utility, cogenerator, distributed generation provider, exempt
wholesale generator, (15 U.S.C. Section 79z-5a) municipal utility district, Federal
power marketing agency, electric rural cooperative, or other supplier or seller of
electricity;

b.	An electric service provider (ESP), electricity broker, marketer, aggregator
(including a community choice aggregator), pool operator, or other electricity
supplier other than a provider of electric distribution services to all or a significant
portion of the City, which sells or supplies electricity or supplemental services to
electricity users within the City ; and

c.	A gas service supplier, aggregator, marketer or broker, other than a supplier of gas
distribution services to all or a significant portion of the City, which sells or
supplies gas or supplemental services to gas users within the City.

Paging service means a “telecommunications service” that provides transmission of
coded radio signals for the purpose of activating specific pagers; such transmissions may include
messages and/or sounds.

Person shall mean, without limitation, any domestic, non-profit or foreign corporation;
firm; association; syndicate; joint stock company; partnership of any kind; limited liability
company; joint venture; club; trust:	Massachusetts	business	or	common	law	trust;	estate;

society; cooperative; receiver, trustee, guardian or other representative appointed by order of any
court; any natural individual; joint power agency, municipal district or municipal corporation,
other than the City.

Place of primary use shall mean the street address representative of where the customer’s
use of the telecommunications service primarily occurs, which must be the residential street
address or the primary business street address of the customer.

Post-paid telecommunication service shall mean the telecommunication service obtained
by making a payment on a communication-by-communication basis either through the use of a
credit card or payment mechanism such as a bank card, travel card, credit card, or debit card, or
by charge made to a service number which is not associated with the origination or termination
of the telecommunication service.

Prepaid telecommunication service (including prepaid mobile telecommunication
service) shall mean the right to access telecommunication services, which must be paid for in
advance and which enables the origination of communications using an access number or
authorization code, whether manually or electronically dialed.

Private telecommunication service shall mean a telecommunication service that entitles
the customer to exclusive or priority use of a communications channel or group of channels
between or among termination points, regardless of the manner in which such channel or
channels are connected, and includes switching capacity, extension lines, stations, and any other
associated services that are provided in connection with the use of such channel or channels. A
communications channel is a physical or virtual path of communications over which signals are
transmitted between or among customer channel termination points (i.e., the location where the
customer either inputs or receives the communications).

Service address shall mean the residential street address or the business street address of
the service user. For a telecommunications service user, “service address” means either:

a.	The location of the service user’s telecommunication equipment from which the
communication originates or terminates, regardless of where the communication
is billed or paid; or,

b.	If the location in paragraph a. of this definition is unknown (e.g., mobile
telecommunications service or VoIP service), the service address shall mean the
location of the service user’s place of primary use.

c.	For prepaid telecommunication service, “service address” means the point of sale
of the services where the point of sale is within the City, or if unknown, the
known address of the service user (e.g., billing address or location associated with
the service number), which locations shall be presumed to be the place of primary
use.

Service supplier shall mean any person, including the City, who provides or sells
telecommunication, video, electric, gas or water service to a user of such services within the
City. The term shall include any person required to collect, or self-collect under Section
26.03.08 hereof, and remit a tax as imposed by this Article 03, including its billing agent in the
case of electric or gas suppliers.

Service user shall mean a person required to pay a tax imposed by this Article 03.

State shall mean the State of California.

Tax Administrator shall mean the Finance Director, or his or her authorized
representative.

Telecommunications services shall mean the transmission, conveyance, or routing of
voice, data, audio, video, or any other information or signals to a point, or between or among
points, whatever the technology used, and includes broadband service (e.g., digital subscriber
line (DSL), fiber optic, coaxial cable, and wireless broadband, including Wi-Fi, WiMAX, and
Wireless MESH) to the extent federal and/or state law permits taxation of such broadband
services, now or in the future. The term “telecommunications service” includes such
transmission, conveyance, or routing in which computer processing applications are used to act
on the form, code or protocol of the content for purposes of transmission, conveyance or routing
without regard to whether such service is referred to as voice over internet protocol (VoIP)
services or is classified by the Federal Communications Commission as enhanced or value
added, and includes video and/or data service that is functionally integrated with
“telecommunication services”. Telecommunications services include, but is not limited to the
following services, regardless of the manner or basis on which such services are calculated or
billed:	ancillary telecommunication services; intrastate, interstate and international

telecommunication services; all forms of VoIP service; mobile telecommunications service;
prepaid telecommunication service; post-paid telecommunication	service;	private

telecommunication service; paging service; 800 service (or any other toll-free numbers
designated by the Federal Communications Commission); 900 service (or any other similar
numbers designated by the Federal Communications Commission for services whereby
subscribers who call in to prerecorded or live service).

Video programming means those programming services commonly provided to
subscribers by a “video service supplier” including but not limited to basic services, premium
services, audio services, video games, pay-per-view services, video on demand, origination
programming, or any other similar services, regardless of the content of such video
programming, or the technology used to deliver such services, and regardless of the manner or
basis on which such services are calculated or billed.

Video services means “video programming” and any and all services related to the
providing, recording, delivering, use or enjoyment of “video programming” (including
origination programming and programming using Internet Protocol, e.g., IP-TV, IP-Video, and
over the top TV or OTT) by a “video service supplier,” regardless of the technology used to
deliver, store or provide such services, and regardless of the manner or basis on which such
services are calculated or billed, and includes ancillary video services, data services,
“telecommunication services,” or interactive communication services that are functionally
integrated with “video services.”

Video service supplier means any person, company, or service which provides or sells
video programming, or provides or sells the capability to receive video programming, including
any communications that are ancillary, necessary or common to the provision, use or enjoyment
of the video programming, to or from a business or residential address in the City, where some
fee is paid, whether directly or included in dues or rental charges for that service, whether or not
public rights-of-way are utilized in the delivery of the video programming or communications.
A “video service supplier” includes, but is not limited to, multichannel video programming

distributors (as defined in 47 U.S.C.A. Section 522(13)); open video systems (OVS) suppliers;
and suppliers of cable television; master antenna television; satellite master antenna television;
multichannel multipoint distribution services (MMDS); video services using internet protocol
(e.g., IP-TV and IP-Video, which provide, among other things, broadcasting and video on
demand), direct broadcast satellite to the extent federal law permits taxation of its video services,
now or in the future; and other suppliers of video services (including two-way communications),
whatever their technology.

VoIP (Voice Over Internet Protocol) means the digital process of making and receiving
real-time voice transmissions over any Internet Protocol network.

800 Service means a “telecommunications service” that allows a caller to dial a toll-free
number without incurring a charge for the call. The service is typically marketed under the name
“800,” “855,” “866,” “877,” and “888” toll-free calling, and any subsequent numbers designated
by the Federal Communications Commission.

900 Service means an inbound toll “telecommunications service” purchased by a
subscriber that allows the subscriber’s customers to call in to the subscriber’s prerecorded
announcement or live service. “900 service” does not include the charge for: collection services
provided by the seller of the “telecommunications services” to the subscriber, or service or
product sold by the subscriber to the subscriber’s customer. The service is typically marketed
under the name “900” service, and any subsequent numbers designated by the Federal
Communications Commission.

26.03.03 CONSTITUTIONAL AND STATUTORY EXEMPTIONS:

A.	The taxes imposed by this Article 03 shall not apply to:

1.	Any person or service if imposition of such tax upon that person or service
would be in violation of a Federal or State statute or the Constitution of
the State of California, or the Constitution of the United States; or

2.	The City, and the State of California and its subdivisions.

3.	Accredited schools and churches.

B.	Any service user that is exempt from the tax imposed by this Article 03 pursuant
to subsection (a) of this Section shall file an application with the Tax
Administrator for an exemption; provided, however, this requirement shall not
apply to a service user that is a State or Federal agency or subdivision with a
commonly recognized name for such service. Said application shall be made
upon a form approved by the Tax Administrator and shall state those facts,
declared under penalty of perjury, which qualify the applicant for an exemption,
and shall include the names of all service suppliers serving that service user. If
deemed exempt by the Tax Administrator, such service user shall give the Tax
Administrator timely written notice of any change in service suppliers so that the
Tax Administrator can properly notify the new service supplier of the service
user’s tax exempt status. A service user that fails to apply and obtain an

c.

D.

26.03.04

A.

B.

exemption pursuant to this Section 26.03.03 shall not be entitled to a refund of a
users tax collected and remitted to the Tax Administrator from such service user
as a result of such noncompliance.

The decision of the Tax Administrator may be appealed pursuant to Section
26.03.20 hereof. Filing an application with the Tax Administrator and appeal to
the City Manager, or designee, pursuant to Section 26.03.20 hereof is a
prerequisite to a suit thereon.

The City Council may, by resolution, establish one or more classes of persons or
one or more classes of utility service otherwise subject to payment of a tax
imposed by this Article 03 and provide that such classes of persons or service
shall be exempt, in whole or in part from such tax for a specified period of time.

TELECOMMUNICATION USERS TAX:

There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person in the City using
telecommunication services. The tax imposed by this section shall be at the rate
of five (5%) percent of the charges made for such services and shall be collected
from the service user by the telecommunication services supplier or its billing
agent, or as otherwise provided by law. There is a rebuttable presumption that
telecommunication services, which are billed to a billing or service address in the
City, are used, in whole or in part, within the City’s boundaries, and such services
are subject to taxation under this section. There is also a rebuttable presumption
that prepaid telecommunication services sold within the city are primarily used, in
whole or in part, within the City and are therefore subject to taxation under this
Section. If the billing address of the service user is different from the service
address, the service address of the service user shall be used for purposes of
imposing the tax. As used in this section, the term “charges” shall include the
value of any other services, credits, property of every kind or nature, or other
consideration provided by the service user in exchange for the telecommunication
services.

“Mobile telecommunications service” shall be sourced in accordance with the
sourcing rules set forth in the Mobile Telecommunications Sourcing Act
(4 U.S.C. Section 124). The Tax Administrator may issue and disseminate to
telecommunication service suppliers, which are subject to the tax collection
requirements of this section, sourcing rules for the taxation of other
telecommunication services, including but not	limited to	post-paid

telecommunication services, prepaid telecommunication services, and private
telecommunication services, provided that such rules are based upon custom and
common practice that further administrative efficiency and minimize multi-
jurisdictional taxation.

The Tax Administrator may issue and disseminate to telecommunication service
suppliers, which are subject to the tax collection requirements of this section, an
administrative ruling identifying those telecommunication services, or charges

-7-

therefore, that is subject to the tax of paragraph a. above. This administrative
ruling shall not impose a new tax, revise an existing tax methodology as stated in
this section, or increase an existing tax, except as allowed by California
Government Code Section 53750(h)(2)(A).

D.	As used in this Section, the term “telecommunication services” shall include, but

is not limited to, charges for:	connection, reconnection, termination or early

termination charges; movement or change of telecommunication services; late
payment fees; detailed billing; central office and custom calling features
(including but not limited to call waiting, call forwarding, caller identification and
three-way calling); voice mail and other messaging services; directory assistance;
access and line charges; universal service charges; regulatory or administrative
fees, charges or surcharges, including charges or surcharges for programs
imposed by state or federal law (whether such charges or surcharges are imposed
on the service supplier or the customer); local number portability charges; and
text and instant messaging. “Telecommunication services” shall not include
digital downloads that are not “ancillary telecommunication services,” such as
music, ringtones, games, and similar digital products.

E.	To prevent actual multi-jurisdictional taxation of telecommunication services
subject to tax under this section, any service user, upon proof to the Tax
Administrator that the service user has previously paid the same tax in another
state or city on such telecommunication services, shall be allowed a credit against
the tax imposed to the extent of the amount of such tax legally imposed in such
other State or City; provided, however, the amount of credit shall not exceed the
tax owed to the City under this section.

F.	The tax on telecommunication services imposed by this section shall be collected
from the service user by the service supplier. The amount of tax collected in one
(1) month shall be remitted to the Tax Administrator, and must be received by the
Tax Administrator on or before the twentieth (20th) day of the following month.

G.	The tax imposed by this section shall not apply to any payment received for any
toll telephone service which originates within a combat zone from a member of
the armed forces of the United States performing service in such combat zone, as
determined under such section, provided a certificate, setting forth such facts as
the tax administrator may by regulations prescribe, is furnished to the person
receiving such payment.

26.03.05	VIDEO USERS TAX

A.	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person in the City using video services
from a video provider. The tax imposed by this subsection shall be at the rate of
five (5%) percent of the charges made for such services, and shall be collected
from the service user by the video service supplier or its billing agent. There is a
rebuttable presumption that video services, which are billed to a billing or service
address in the City, are used, in whole or in part, within the City’s boundaries, and

such services are subject to taxation under this Article. If the billing address of
the service user is different from the service address, the service address of the
service user shall be used for purposes of imposing the tax.

B.	As used in this section, the term “charges” shall include, but is not limited to,
charges for the following:

1.	regulatory fees and surcharges, franchise fees and access fees (PEG)
(whether such charges or surcharges are imposed on the service supplier
or the customer);

2.	initial installation of equipment necessary for provision and receipt of
video services;

3.	late fees, collection fees, bad debt recoveries, and return check fees;

4.	activation fees, reactivation fees; termination or early termination charges;
and reconnection fees;

5.	video programming and video services;

6.	ancillary video programming services (e.g., electronic program guide
services, search functions, recording functions, or other interactive
services or communications that are ancillary, necessary or common to the
use or enjoyment of the video services);

7.	equipment leases (e.g., remote, set box, recording and/or search devises;
converters); and,

8.	service calls, service protection plans, name changes, changes of services,
and special services.

C.	As used in this section, the term “charges” shall include the value of any other
services, credits, property of every kind or nature, or other consideration provided
by the service user in exchange for the video services.

D.	The Tax Administrator may issue and disseminate to video service suppliers,
which are subject to the tax collection requirements of this Article, an
administrative ruling identifying those video services, or charges therefor, that are
subject to or not subject to the tax of subsection (a) above.

E.	The tax imposed by this section shall be collected from the service user by the
video service supplier, its billing agent, or a reseller of such services. In the case
of video service, the service user shall be deemed to be the purchaser of the bulk
video service (e.g., an apartment owner), unless such service is resold to
individual users, in which case the service user shall be the ultimate purchaser of
the video service. The amount of tax collected in one (1) month shall be remitted

-9-

to the Tax Administrator, and must be received by the Tax Administrator on or
before the twentieth (20th) day of the following month.

26.03.06	ELECTRICITY USERS TAX:

A.	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person using electricity in the City.
The tax imposed by this Section shall be at the rate of five (5%) percent of the
charges made for such electricity, and for any supplemental services or other
associated activities directly related to and/or necessary for the provision of
electricity to the service user, which are provided by a service supplier or non-
utility service supplier to a service user. The tax shall be collected from the
service user by the service supplier or non-utility service supplier, or its billing
agent.

B.	As used in this Section, the term “charges” shall apply to all services, components
and items that are: (i) necessary or common to the receipt, use and enjoyment of
electric service; or, (ii) currently, or historically have been, included in a single or
bundled rate for electric service by a local distribution company to a class of retail
customers. The term “charges” shall include, but is not limited to, the following
charges:

1.	Energy charges;

2.	Distribution or transmission charges;

3.	Metering charges;

4.	Standby, reserves,	firming,	voltage support, regulation, emergency or

other similar charges for supplemental services to self-generation service
users;

5.	Customer charges, late charges, service establishment or reestablishment
charges, termination or early termination charges, demand charges, fuel or
other cost adjustments, power exchange charges, independent system
operator (ISO) charges, stranded investment or competitive transition
charges (CTC), public purpose program charges, nuclear
decommissioning charges, trust transfer amounts (bond financing
charges), franchise fees, franchise surcharges, annual and monthly
charges, and other charges, fees and surcharges which are necessary to or
common for the receipt, use and enjoyment of electric service; and

6.	Charges, fees, or surcharges for electricity services or programs, which are
mandated by the California Public Utilities Commission or the Federal
Energy Regulatory Commission, or by any state or federal law, whether or
not such charges, fees, or surcharges appear on a bundled or line item
basis on the customer billing, or whether they are imposed on the service
provider or the customer.

-10-

C.	As used in this Section, the term “charges” shall include the value of any other
services, credits, property of every kind or nature, or other consideration provided
by the service user in exchange for the electricity or services related to the
provision of such electricity.

D.	The Tax Administrator, from time to time, may survey the electric service
suppliers to identify the various unbundled billing components of electric retail
service that they commonly provide to residential and commercial/industrial
customers in the City, and the charges therefor, including those items that are
mandated by State or Federal regulatory agencies as a condition of providing such
electric service. The Tax Administrator, thereafter, may issue and disseminate to
such electric service providers an administrative ruling identifying those
components and items which are: (i) necessary or common to the receipt, use or
enjoyment of electric service; or, (ii) currently, or historically have been, included
in a single or bundled rate for electric service by a local distribution company to a
class of retail customers. Unbundled charges for such components and items shall
be subject to the tax of paragraph a. above.

E.	As used in this Section, the term “using electricity” shall not be construed to
include the mere receiving of such electricity by an electric public utility or
governmental agency at a point within the City for resale, or the use of such
energy in the production or distribution of water by a public utility or a
governmental agency.

F.	The tax on electricity provided by self-production or by a non-utility service
supplier not under the jurisdiction of this Article 03 shall be collected and
remitted in the manner set forth in Section 26.03.08 hereof. All other taxes on
charges for electricity imposed by this Section shall be collected from the service
user by the electric service supplier or its billing agent. The amount of tax
collected in one (1) month shall be remitted to the Tax Administrator, and must be
received by the Tax Administrator on or before the twentieth (20th) day of the
following month; or, at the option of the person required to collect and/or remit
the tax, such person shall remit an estimated amount of tax measured by the tax
billed in the previous month or upon the payment pattern of the service user,
which must be received by the Tax Administrator on or before the twentieth
(20th) day of following month, provided that the service user shall submit an
adjusted payment or request for credit, as appropriate, within sixty (60) days
following each calendar quarter. The credit, if approved by the Tax
Administrator, may be applied against any subsequent tax bill that becomes due.

26.03.07	GAS USERS TAX:

A. There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person using gas in the City, which is
delivered through a pipeline distribution system or by mobile transport. The tax
imposed by this section shall be at the rate of five percent (5%) of the charges
made for such gas, including all services related to the storage, transportation and
delivery of such gas. The tax shall be collected from the service user by the

service supplier or non-utility service supplier, or its billing agent, and shall apply
to all uses of gas, including but not limited to, heating, electric generation by a
non-public utility, and the use of gas as a component of a manufactured product.

B.	As used in this Section, the term “charges” shall apply to all services, components
and items for gas service that are: (i) necessary or common to the receipt, use and
enjoyment of gas service; or, (ii) currently, or historically have been, included in a
single or bundled rate for gas service by a local distribution company to a class of
retail customers. The term “charges” shall include, but is not limited to, the
following charges:

1.	The commodity charges for purchased gas, or the cost of gas owned by the
service user (including the actual costs attributed to drilling, production,
lifting, storage, gathering, trunkline, pipeline, and other operating costs
associated with the production and delivery of such gas), which is
delivered through a gas pipeline distribution system;

2.	Gas transportation charges (including interstate charges to the extent not
included in commodity charges);

3.	Storage charges; provided, however, that the service provider shall not be
required to apply the tax to any charges for gas storage services when the
service providers cannot, as a practical matter, determine the jurisdiction
where such stored gas is ultimately used; but it shall be the obligation of
the service user to self-collect the amount of tax not applied to any charge
for gas storage by the service supplier and to remit the tax to the
appropriate jurisdiction;

4.	Capacity or demand charges, late charges, service establishment or
reestablishment charges, termination or early termination charges,
marketing charges, administrative charges, transition charges, customer
charges, minimum charges, annual and monthly charges, and any other
charges which are necessary or common to the receipt, use and enjoyment
of gas service; and,

5.	Charges, fees, or surcharges for gas services or programs, which are
mandated by the California Public Utilities Commission or the Federal
Energy Regulatory Commission, whether or not such charges, fees, or
surcharges appear on a bundled or line item basis on the customer billing,
or whether they are imposed on the service provider or the customer.

C.	As used in this Section, the term “charges” shall include the value of any other
services, credits, property of every kind or nature, or other consideration provided
by the service user in exchange for the gas or services related to the delivery of
such gas.

D.	The Tax Administrator, from time to time, may survey the gas service suppliers to
identify the various unbundled billing components of gas retail service that they

commonly provide to residential and commercial/industrial customers in the City,
and the charges therefor, including those items that are mandated by State or
Federal regulatory agencies as a condition of providing such gas service. The Tax
Administrator, thereafter, may issue and disseminate to such gas service suppliers
an administrative ruling identifying those components and items which are:

(i)	necessary or common to the receipt, use or enjoyment of gas service; or,

(ii)	currently, or historically have been, included in a single or bundled rate for
gas service by a local distribution company to a class of retail customers. Charges
for such components and items shall be subject to the tax of paragraph A. above.

E.	There shall be excluded from the base on which the tax imposed by this section is
computed charges made for gas sold for use in the generation of electrical energy
or for the production or distribution of water by a public utility or government
agency; and charges made by a gas public utility for gas used and consumed in
the conduct of the business of gas public utilities.

F.	The tax on gas provided by self-production or by a non-utility service supplier not
under the jurisdiction of this Article 03 shall be collected and remitted in the
manner set forth in Section 26.03.08 hereof. All other taxes on charges for gas
imposed by this Section shall be collected from the service user by the gas service
supplier or its billing agent. The amount of tax collected in one (1) month shall
be remitted to the Tax Administrator, and must be received by the Tax
Administrator on or before the twentieth (30th) day of the following month; or, at
the option of the person required to collect and/or remit the tax, such person shall
remit an estimated amount of tax measured by the tax billed in the previous month
or upon the payment pattern of the service user, which must be received by the
Tax Administrator on or before the twentieth (20th) day of the following month,
provided that the service user shall submit an adjusted payment or request for
credit, as appropriate, within sixty (60) days following each calendar quarter. The
credit, if approved by the Tax Administrator, may be applied against any
subsequent tax bill that becomes due.

26.03.08	COLLECTION OF TAX FROM SERVICE USERS RECEIVING DIRECT
PURCHASE OF GAS OR ELECTRICITY:

A.	Any service user subject to the tax imposed by Sections 26.03.06 or 26.03.07
hereof, which produces gas or electricity for self-use; which receives gas or
electricity, including any related supplemental services, directly from a non-utility
service supplier not under the jurisdiction of this Article 03; or which, for any
other reason, is not having the full tax collected and remitted by its service
supplier, a non-utility service supplier, or its billing agent on the use of gas or
electricity in the City, including any related supplemental services, shall report
said fact to the Tax Administrator and shall remit the tax due directly to the Tax
Administrator within thirty (30) days of such use. In lieu of paying said actual
tax, the service user may, at its option, remit to the Tax Administrator within
thirty (30) days for such use an estimated amount of tax measured by the tax
billed in the previous month, or upon the payment pattern of similar customers of

26.03.09

A.

B.

C.

D.

the service supplier using similar amounts of gas or electricity, provided that the
service user shall submit an adjusted payment or request for credit, as appropriate,
within sixty (60) days following each calendar quarter. The credit, if approved by
the Tax Administrator, may be applied against any subsequent tax bill that
becomes due.

The Tax Administrator may require said service user to identify its nonutility
service supplier and provide, subject to audit, invoices, books of account, or other
satisfactory evidence documenting the quantity of gas or electricity used,
including any related supplemental services, and the cost or price thereof. If the
service user is unable to provide such satisfactory evidence, or, if the
administrative cost of calculating the tax in the opinion of the Tax Administrator
is excessive, the Tax Administrator may determine the tax by applying the tax rate
to the equivalent charges the service user would have incurred if the gas or
electricity used, including any related supplemental services, had been provided
by the service supplier that is the primary supplier of gas or electricity within the
City.

WATER USERS TAX:

There is imposed a tax upon every person using water in the City which is
transported and delivered through a pipeline distribution system. The tax imposed
by this section shall be at the rate of five percent (5%) of the charges made for
such water.

As used in this section, the term “charges” shall apply to all services, components
and items that are: i) necessary for or common to the receipt, use or enjoyment of
water service; or, ii) currently are or historically have been included in a single or
bundled rate for water service by a local distribution company to a class of retail
customers. The term “charges” shall include, but is not limited to, the following
charges:	water	commodity	charges	(potable	and	non-potable);	distribution or

transmission charges; metering charges; customer charges; fire protection
services; late charges; service establishment or reestablishment charges; franchise
fees; franchise surcharges; annual and monthly charges; and other charges, fees
and surcharges which are necessary for or common to the receipt, use or
enjoyment of water service; and, charges, fees, or surcharges for water services or
programs, which are mandated by a water district or a state or federal agency,
whether or not such charges, fees, or surcharges appear on a bundled or line item
basis on the customer billing, or whether they are imposed on the service provider
or the customer.

As used in this section, the term “charges” shall include the value of any other
services, credits, property of every kind or nature, or other consideration provided
by the service user in exchange for the water services.

The Tax Administrator, from time to time, may survey the water service suppliers
in the City to identify the various unbundled billing components of water retail

service that they commonly provide to residential and commercial/industrial
customers in the City, and the charges therefor, including those items that are
mandated by a water district or a state or federal agency as a condition of
providing such water service. The Tax Administrator, thereafter, may issue and
disseminate to such water service suppliers an administrative ruling identifying
those components and items which are:	(i)	necessary for or common to the

receipt, use or enjoyment of water service; or, (ii) currently are or historically
have been included in a single or bundled rate for water service by a local
distribution company to a class of retail customers. Charges for such components
and items shall be subject to the tax of paragraph A. above.

E.	There shall be excluded from the base on which the tax imposed in this section is
computed charges made for water which is to be resold and delivered through a
pipeline distribution system.

F.	The tax on water service imposed by this section shall be collected from the
service user by the water service supplier or its billing agent. The amount of tax
collected in one (1) month shall be remitted to the Tax Administrator, and must be
received by the Tax Administrator on or before the twentieth (20th) day of the
following month.

26.03.10	EFFECT OF COMMINGLING TAXABLE ITEMS WITH NONTAXABLE
ITEMS:

If any nontaxable charges are combined with and not separately stated from taxable
service charges on the customer bill or invoice of a service supplier, the combined charge is
subject to tax unless the service supplier identifies, by reasonable and verifiable standards, the
portions of the combined charge that are nontaxable and taxable through the service supplier’s
books and records kept in the regular course of business, and in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles, and not created and maintained for tax purposes. If the service
supplier offers a combination of taxable and non-taxable services, and the charges are separately
stated, then for taxation purposes, the values assigned the taxable and non-taxable services shall
be based on its books and records kept in the regular course of business and in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles, and not created and maintained for tax purposes. The
service supplier has the burden of proving the proper valuation and apportionment of taxable and
non-taxable charges.

26.03.11	SUBSTANTIAL NEXUS/MINIMUM CONTACTS:

For purposes of imposing a tax or establishing a duty to collect and remit a tax under this
Article, “substantial nexus”, “substantial economic presence”, and “minimum contacts” shall be
construed broadly in favor of the imposition, collection and/or remittance of the utility users tax
to the fullest extent permitted by State and Federal law, and as it may change from time to time
by judicial interpretation or by statutory enactment. Any telecommunication service (including
VoIP) used by a person with a service address in the City, which service is capable of
terminating a call to another person on the general telephone network, shall be subject to a
rebuttable presumption that “substantial nexus/minimum contacts” exists for purposes of

-15-

imposing a tax, or establishing a duty to collect and remit a tax, under this Article. A service
supplier shall be deemed to have sufficient activity in the City for tax collection and remittance
purposes if its activities include, but are not limited to, any of the following: maintains or has
within the City, directly or through an agent, affiliate or subsidiary, a place of business of any
nature; solicits business in the City by employees, independent contractors, resellers, agents,
affiliates or other representatives; solicits business in the City on a continuous, regular, seasonal
or systematic basis by means of advertising that is broadcast or relayed from a transmitter with
the City or distributed from a location with the City; or advertises in newspapers or other
periodicals printed and published within the City or through materials distributed in the City by
means other than the United States mail; or if there are activities performed in the City on behalf
of the service supplier that are significantly associated with the service supplier’s ability to
establish and maintain a market in the City for the provision of utility services that are subject to
a tax under this Article (e.g., an affiliated person engaging in activities in the City that inure to
the benefit of the service supplier in its development or maintenance of a market for its services
in the City).

26.03.12	DUTY TO COLLECT; PROCEDURES:

A.	Collection by Service Suppliers. The duty of service suppliers to collect and remit
the taxes imposed by the provisions of this Article 03 shall be performed as
follows:

1.	The tax shall be collected by service suppliers insofar as practicable at the
same time as, and along with, the collection of the charges made in
accordance with the regular billing practice of the service supplier. Where
the amount paid by a service user to a service supplier is less than the full
amount of the charge and tax that was accrued for the billing period, a
proportionate share of both the charge and the tax shall be deemed to have
been paid. In those cases where a service user has notified the service
supplier of refusal to pay the tax imposed on said charges. Section
26.03.15 shall apply.

2.	The duty of a service supplier to collect the tax from a service user shall
commence with the beginning of the first regular billing period applicable
to the service user where all charges normally included in such regular
billing are subject to the provisions of this Article 03. Where a person
receives more than one (1) billing, one (1) or more being for different
periods than another, the duty to collect shall arise separately for each
billing period.

B.	Filing Return and Payment. Each person required by this Article 03 to remit a tax
shall file a return to the Tax Administrator, on forms approved by the Tax
Administrator, on or before the due date. The full amount of the tax collected
shall be included with the return and filed with the Tax Administrator. The Tax
Administrator is authorized to require such additional information as he or she
deems necessary to determine if the tax is being levied, collected, and remitted in
accordance with this Chapter 26.03. Returns are due immediately upon cessation

-16-

of business for any reason. Pursuant to Revenue and Tax Code Section 7284.6,
the Tax Administrator, and its agents, shall maintain such filing returns as
confidential information that is exempt from the disclosure provisions of the
Public Records Act.

26.03.13	COLLECTION PENALTIES; SERVICE SUPPLIERS OR SELF-
COLLECTORS:

A.	Taxes collected from a service user, or owed by a service user subject to Section

26.03.08	hereof, are delinquent if not received by the Tax Administrator on or
before the due date. Should the due date occur on a weekend or legal holiday, the
return must be received by the Tax Administrator on the first regular working day
following the weekend or legal holiday. A direct deposit, including electronic
fund transfers and other similar methods of electronically exchanging monies
between financial accounts, made by a service supplier in satisfaction of its
obligations under this Section shall be considered timely if the transfer is initiated
on or before the due date, and the transfer settles into the City’s account on the
following business day.

B.	If the person required to collect and/or remit the utility users tax fails to collect
the tax (by failing to properly assess the tax on one (1) or more services or
charges on the customer’s billing) or fails to remit the tax collected on or before
the due date, or, in the case of a service user that fails to properly self-collect and
remit the tax under Section 26.03.08 hereof on or before the due date, the Tax
Administrator shall attach a penalty for such delinquencies or deficiencies at the
rate of fifteen (15%) percent of the total tax that is delinquent or deficient in the
remittance, and shall pay interest at the rate of and 75/100ths (0.75%) percent per
month, or any fraction thereof, on the amount of the tax, exclusive of penalties,
from the date on which the remittance first become delinquent, until paid.

C.	The Tax Administrator shall have the power to impose additional penalties upon
persons required to collect and remit taxes pursuant to the provisions of this
Article 03 for fraud or gross negligence in reporting or remitting at the rate of
fifteen (15%) percent of the amount of the tax collected and/or required to be
remitted, or as recomputed by the Tax Administrator.

D.	For collection purposes only, every penalty imposed and such interest that is
accrued under the provisions of this section shall become a part of the tax herein
required to be paid.

E.	Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Tax Administrator may, in his or her
discretion, modify the due dates and/or penalty and interest provisions of this
section to be consistent with any uniform standards or procedures that are
mutually agreed upon by UUT public agencies, or otherwise legally established,
to create a UUT central payment location or mechanism.

-17-

26.03.14	DEFICIENCY DETERMINATION AND ASSESSMENT; TAX
APPLICATION ERRORS:

A.	The Tax Administrator shall make a deficiency determination if he or she
determines that any person required to pay or collect taxes pursuant to the
provisions of this Article 03 has failed to pay, collect, and/or remit the proper
amount of tax by improperly or failing to apply the tax to one or more taxable
services or charges. Nothing herein shall require that the Tax Administrator
institute proceedings under this Section 26.03.14 if, in the opinion of the Tax
Administrator, the cost of collection or enforcement likely outweighs the tax
benefit.

B.	The Tax Administrator shall mail a notice of such deficiency determination to the
person required to pay or remit the tax, which notice shall refer briefly to the
amount of the taxes owed, plus interest at the rate of seventy-five one-hundredths
percent (0.75%) per month, or any fraction thereof, on the amount of the tax from
the date on which the tax should have been received by the City. Within fourteen
(14) calendar days after the date of service of such notice, the person may request
in writing to the Tax Administrator for a hearing on the matter.

C.	If the person fails to request a hearing within the prescribed time period, the
amount of the deficiency determination shall become a final assessment, and shall
immediately be due and owing to the City. If the person requests a hearing, the
Tax Administrator shall cause the matter to be set for hearing, which shall be
scheduled within thirty (30) days after receipt of the written request for hearing.
Notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be mailed by the Tax
Administrator to such person at least ten (10) calendar days prior to the hearing,
and, if the Tax Administrator desires said person to produce specific records at
such hearing, such notice may designate the records requested to be produced.

D.	At the time fixed for the hearing, the Tax Administrator shall hear all relevant
testimony and evidence, including that of any other interested parties. At the
discretion of the Tax Administrator, the hearing may be continued from time to
time for the purpose of allowing the presentation of additional evidence. Within a
reasonable time following the conclusion of the hearing, the Tax Administrator
shall issue a final assessment (or non-assessment), thereafter, by confirming,
modifying or rejecting the original deficiency determination, and shall mail a
copy of such final assessment to person owing the tax. The decision of the Tax
Administrator may be appealed pursuant to Section 26.03.20. Filing an
application with the Tax Administrator and appeal to the City Manager, or
designee, pursuant to Section 26.03.20 is a prerequisite to a suit thereon.

E.	Payment of the final assessment shall become delinquent if not received by the
Tax Administrator on or before the thirtieth (30th) day following the date of
receipt of the notice of final assessment. The penalty for delinquency shall be
fifteen percent (15%) on the total amount of the assessment, along with interest at
the rate of seventy-five one-hundredths percent (0.75%) per month, or any

F.	fraction thereof, on the amount of the tax, exclusive of penalties, from the date of delinquency, until paid. The applicable statute of limitations regarding a claim by the City seeking payment of a tax assessed under this Article 03 shall commence from the date of delinquency as provided in this subsection (e).  All notices under this Article 03 may be sent by regular mail, postage prepaid, and shall be deemed received on the third calendar day following the date of mailing, as established by a proof of mailing.
26.03.15	ADMINISTRATIVE REMEDY; NON-PAYING SERVICE USERS:
A.	Whenever the Tax Administrator determines that a service user has deliberately withheld the amount of the tax owed by the service user from the amounts remitted to a person required to collect the tax, or whenever the Tax Administrator deems it in the best interest of the City, he or she may relieve such person of the obligation to collect the taxes due under this Section 26.03.15 from certain named service users for specific billing periods. Whenever the service user has failed to pay the amount of tax owed for a period of two (2) or more billing periods, the service supplier shall be relieved of the obligation to collect taxes due. The service supplier shall provide the City with the names and addresses of such service users and the amounts of taxes owed under the provisions of this Section 26.03.15. Nothing herein shall require that the Tax Administrator institute proceedings under this Section 26.03.15 if, in the opinion of the Tax Administrator, the cost of collection or enforcement likely outweighs the tax benefit.
B.	In addition to the tax owed, the service user shall pay a delinquency penalty at the rate of fifteen (15%) percent of the total tax that is owed, and shall pay interest at the rate of three-quarters of one (3/4%) percent per month, or any fraction thereof, on the amount of the tax, exclusive of penalties, from the due date, until paid.
C.	The Tax Administrator shall notify the nonpaying service user that the Tax Administrator has assumed the responsibility to collect the taxes due for the stated periods and demand payment of such taxes, including penalties and interest. The notice shall be served on the service user by personal delivery or by deposit of the notice in the United States mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the service user at the address to which billing was made by the person required to collect the tax; or, should the service user have a change of address, to his or her last known address.
D.	If the service user fails to remit the tax to the Tax Administrator within thirty (30) days from the date of the service of the notice upon him or her, the Tax Administrator may impose an additional penalty of fifteen (15%) percent of the amount of the total tax that is owed.
26.03.16	ACTIONS TO COLLECT:

Any tax required to be paid by a service user under the provisions of this Article 03 shall
be deemed a debt owed by the service user to the City. Any such tax collected from a service

user which has not been remitted to the Tax Administrator shall be deemed a debt owed to the
City by the person required to collect and remit and shall no longer be a debt of the service user.
Any person owing money to the City under the provisions of this Article 03 shall be liable to an
action brought in the name of the City for the recovery of such amount, including penalties and
interest as provided for in this Article 03, along with any collection costs incurred by the City as
a result of the person’s noncompliance with this Article 03, including, but not limited to,
reasonable attorney’s fees. In the event that a service user or service supplier owing a tax under
this Article 03 files bankruptcy, then such debt to the City shall be deemed an unsecured priority
excise tax obligation under 11 U.S.C.A. Section 507(a)(8)(C). Service suppliers who seek to
collect charges for service in bankruptcy proceedings shall also include in any such claim the
amount of taxes due the City for those services, unless the Tax Administrator determines that
such duty is in conflict with any federal or state law, rule, or regulation or that such action would
be administratively impractical.

26.03.17 ADDITIONAL POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE TAX
ADMINISTRATOR:

A.	The Tax Administrator shall have the power and duty, and is hereby directed, to
enforce each and all of the provisions of this Article 03.

B.	The Tax Administrator may adopt administrative rules and regulations consistent
with provisions of this Article 03 for the purpose of interpreting, clarifying,
carrying out and enforcing the payment, collection and remittance of the taxes
herein imposed. The administrative ruling shall not impose a new tax, revise an
existing tax methodology as stated in this Article 03, or increase an existing tax,
except as allowed by California Government Code Section 53750(h)(2). A copy
of such administrative rules and regulations shall be on file in the Tax
Administrator’s office. To the extent that the Tax Administrator determines that
the tax imposed under this Article 03 shall not be collected in full for any period
of time from any particular service supplier or service user, that determination
shall be considered an exercise of the Tax Administrator’s discretion to settle
disputes and shall not constitute a change in taxing methodology for purposes of
Government Code Section 53750 or otherwise. The Tax Administrator is not
authorized to amend the City’s methodology for purposes of Government Code
Section 53750 and the City does not waive or abrogate its ability to impose the
utility users tax in full as a result of promulgating administrative rulings or
entering into agreements.

C.	Upon a proper showing of good cause, the Tax Administrator may make
administrative agreements, with appropriate conditions, to vary from the strict
requirements of this Article 03 and thereby; (1) conform to the billing procedures
of a particular service supplier (or service user subject to Section 26.03.08 hereof)
so long as said agreements result in the collection of the tax in conformance with
the general purpose and scope of this Article 03; or, (2) to avoid a hardship where
the administrative costs of collection and remittance greatly outweigh the tax
benefit. A copy of each such agreement shall be on file in the Tax

-20-

Administrator’s office, and are voidable by the Tax Administrator or the City at
any time.

D.	The Tax Administrator may conduct an audit, to ensure proper compliance with
the requirements of this Article 03, of any person required to collect and/or remit
a tax pursuant to this Article 03. The Tax Administrator shall notify said person
of the initiation of an audit in writing. In the absence of fraud or other intentional
misconduct, the audit period or review shall not exceed a period of three (3) years
next preceding the date of receipt of the written notice by said person from the
Tax Administrator. Upon completion of the audit, the Tax Administrator may
make a deficiency determination pursuant to Section 26.03.14 for all taxes (and
applicable penalties and interest) owed and not paid, as evidenced by information
provided by such person to the Tax Administrator. If said person is unable or
unwilling to provide sufficient records to enable the Tax Administrator to verify
compliance with this Article 03, the Tax Administrator is authorized to make a
reasonable estimate of the deficiency. Said reasonable estimate shall be entitled
to be a rebuttable presumption of correctness.

E.	Upon receipt of a written request of a taxpayer, and for good cause, the Tax
Administrator may extend the time for filing any statement required pursuant to
this Article 03 for a period of not to exceed forty-five (45) days, provided that the
time for filing the required statement has not already passed when the request is
received. No penalty for delinquent payment shall accrue by reason of such
extension. Interest shall accrue during said extension at the rate of three-quarters
of one (3/4%) percent per month, prorated for any portion thereof.

F.	The Tax Administrator shall determine the eligibility of any person who asserts a
right to exemption from, or a refund of, the tax imposed by this Article 03.

G.	The Tax Administrator, with the written approval of the City Manager, may
compromise a claim pursuant to this Article 03 where the portion of the claim
proposed to be released is equal to or less than four thousand nine hundred ninety-
nine ($4,999.00) dollars; and, with the approval of the City Attorney and the City
Council, may compromise such a claim where the portion proposed to be released
is greater than four thousand nine hundred ninety-nine ($4,999.00) dollars.

H.	Notwithstanding any provision in this Article 03 to the contrary, the Tax
Administrator may waive any penalty or interest imposed upon a person required
to collect and/or remit for failure to collect the tax imposed by this Article 03 if
the non-collection occurred in good faith. In determining whether the non-
collection was in good faith, the Tax Administrator shall take into consideration
the uniqueness of the product or service, industry practice or other precedence, or
whether the person offers to voluntarily disclose its tax liability. The Tax
Administrator may also participate with other utility users tax public agencies in
conducting coordinated compliance reviews with the goal of achieving
administrative efficiency and uniform tax application determinations, where
possible. To encourage voluntary full disclosure and on-going cooperation on tax

-21-

collection and remittance, the Tax Administrator, and its agents, may enter into
agreements with the tax-collecting service providers and grant prospective only
effect on any changes regarding the taxation of services or charges that were
previously deemed by the service provider, in good faith and without gross
negligence, to be non-taxable. In determining whether the non-collection was in
good faith and without gross negligence, the Tax Administrator shall take into
consideration the uniqueness of the product or service, industry practice or other
precedence, and whether the disclosure was voluntarily made by the service
provider or its agent.

26.03.18 RECORDS:

A.	It shall be the duty of every person required to collect and/or remit to the City any
tax imposed by this Article 03 to keep and preserve, for a period of at least
three (3) years, all records as may be necessary to determine the amount of such
tax that such person may have been liable for the collection of and remittance to
the Tax Administrator, which records the Tax Administrator shall have the right
to inspect at a reasonable time.

B.	The Tax Administrator may issue an administrative subpoena to compel a person
to deliver, to the Tax Administrator, copies of all records deemed necessary by
the Tax Administrator to establish compliance with this Article 03, including the
delivery of records in a common electronic format on readily available media if
such records are kept electronically by the person in the usual and ordinary course
of business. As an alternative to delivering the subpoenaed records to the Tax
Administrator on or before the due date provided in the administrative subpoena,
such person may provide access to such records outside the City on or before the
due date, provided that such person shall reimburse the City for all reasonable
travel expenses incurred by the City to inspect those records, including travel,
lodging, meals, and other similar expenses, but excluding the normal salary or
hourly wages of those persons designated by the City to conduct the inspection.

C.	The Tax Administrator is authorized to execute a nondisclosure agreement

approved by the City Attorney to protect the confidentiality of customer
information pursuant to California Revenue and Tax Code Sections 7284.6 and
7284.7.	The Tax Administrator may request from a person providing

transportation or distribution services of gas or electricity to service users within
the City, a list of the names, billing and service addresses, quantities of gas or
electricity delivered, and other pertinent information, of its transportation
customers within the City pursuant to Section 6354(e) of the California Public
Utilities Code.

D.	If a service supplier uses a billing agent or billing aggregator to bill, collect,

and/or remit the tax, the service supplier shall:	(1)	provide to the Tax

Administrator the name, address and telephone number of each billing agent and
billing aggregator currently authorized by the service supplier to bill, collect,
and/or remit the tax to the City; and, (2) upon request of the Tax Administrator,

E.	deliver, or effect the delivery of, any information or records in the possession of such billing agent or billing aggregator that, in the opinion of the Tax Administrator, is necessary to verify the proper application, calculation, collection and/or remittance of such tax to the City.  If any person subject to record-keeping under this Article 03 unreasonably denies the Tax Administrator, or the Tax Administrator’s designated representative, access to such records, or fails to produce the information requested in an administrative subpoena within the time specified, the Tax Administrator may impose a penalty of five hundred ($500.00) dollars on such person for each day following: (i) the initial date that the person refuses to provide such access; or, (ii) the due date for production of records as set forth in the administrative subpoena. This penalty shall be in addition to any other penalty imposed under this Article 03.
26.03.19	REFUNDS/CREDITS:

Whenever the amount of any tax has been overpaid or paid more than once or has been
erroneously or illegally collected or received by the Tax Administrator under this Article 03, it
may be refunded or credited as provided in this Section:

A.	The Tax Administrator may refund any tax that has been overpaid or paid more than once or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received by the Tax Administrator under this Article 03, provided that no refund shall be paid under the provisions of this section unless the claimant or his or her guardian, conservator, executor, or administrator has submitted a written claim to the Tax Administrator within one (1) year of the overpayment or erroneous or illegal collection of said tax. Such claim must clearly establish claimant’s right to the refund by written records showing entitlement thereto.
B.	Notwithstanding the notice provisions of subsection (a) of this Section 26.03.19, the Tax Administrator may, at his or her discretion, give written permission to a service supplier, who has collected and remitted any amount of tax in excess of the amount of tax imposed by this Article 03, to claim credit for such overpayment against the amount of tax which is due the City upon a subsequent monthly retum(s) to the Tax Administrator, provided that, prior to taking such credit by the service supplier: (1) such credit is claimed in a return dated no later than one year from the date of overpayment or erroneous collection of said tax; (2) the Tax Administrator is satisfied that the underlying basis and amount of such credit has been reasonably established; and (3) in the case of an overpayment by a service user to the service supplier that has been remitted to the City, the Tax Administrator has received proof, to his or her satisfaction, that the overpayment has been refunded by the service supplier to the service user in an amount equal to the requested credit.

-23-

26.03.20	APPEALS:
A.	The provisions of this section apply to any decision (other than a decision relating to a refund pursuant to Section 26.03.19 hereof), deficiency determination, assessment, or administrative ruling of the Tax Administrator. Any person aggrieved by any decision (other than a decision relating to a refund pursuant to Section 26.03.19 hereof), deficiency determination, assessment, or administrative ruling of the Tax Administrator, shall be required to comply with the appeals procedure of this section. Compliance with this section shall be a prerequisite to a suit thereon. [See Government Code Section 935(b)]. To the extent allowed by law, nothing herein shall permit the filing of a claim or action on behalf of a class or group of taxpayers.
B.	If any person is aggrieved by any decision (other than a decision relating to a refund pursuant to Section 26.03.19 hereof), deficiency determination, assessment, or administrative ruling of the Tax Administrator; he or she may appeal to the City Manager by filing a notice of appeal with the City Clerk within fourteen (14) days of the date of the decision, deficiency determination, assessment, or administrative ruling of the Tax Administrator which aggrieved the service user or service supplier.
C.	The matter shall be scheduled for hearing before an independent hearing officer selected by the City Manager, or designee, no more than thirty (30) days from the receipt of the appeal. The appellant shall be served with notice of the time and place of the hearing, as well as any relevant materials, at least five (5) calendar days prior to the hearing. The hearing may be continued from time to time upon mutual consent. At the time of the hearing, the appealing party, the Tax Administrator, the City Manager, and any other interested person may present such relevant evidence as he or she may have relating to the determination from which the appeal is taken.
D.	Based upon the submission of such evidence and the review of the City’s files, the City Manager shall issue a written notice and order upholding, modifying or reversing the determination from which the appeal is taken. The notice shall be given within fourteen (14) days after the conclusion of the hearing and shall state the reasons for the decision. The notice shall specify that the decision is final and that any petition for judicial review shall be filed within ninety (90) days from the date of the decision in accordance with Code of Civil Procedure Section 1094.6.
E.	All notices under this section may be sent by regular mail, postage prepaid, and shall be deemed received on the third calendar day following the date of mailing, as established by a proof of mailing.
26.03.21	NO INJUNCTION/WRIT OF MANDATE:

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any
suit, action, or proceeding in any court against this City or against any officer of the City to

prevent or enjoin the collection under this Article 03 of any tax or any amount of tax required to
be collected and/or remitted.

26.03.22	REMEDIES CUMULATIVE:

All remedies and penalties prescribed by this Article 03 or which are available under any
other provision of law or equity, including but not limited to the California False Claims Act
(Government Code Section 12650 et seq.) and the California Unfair Practices Act (Business and
Professions Code Section 17070 et seq.), are cumulative. The use of one (1) or more remedies
by the City shall not bar the use of any other remedy for the purpose of enforcing the provisions
of this Article 03.

26.03.23	NOTICE OF CHANGES TO ORDINANCE:

If a tax under this Article 03 is added, repealed, increased, reduced, or the tax base is
changed, the Tax Administrator shall follow the notice requirements of Public Utilities Code
Section 799.

26.03.24	FUTURE AMENDMENT TO	CITED	STATUTE:

Unless specifically provided otherwise, any reference to a State or Federal statute in this
Article 03 shall mean such statute as it may be amended from time to time. To the extent that the
City’s authorization to collect or impose any tax imposed under this Article 03 is expanded or
limited as a result of an amendment or new enactment of a State or Federal law, no amendment
or modification of this Article 03 shall be required to conform the tax to those changes, and the
tax shall be imposed and collected to the full extent of the authorization up to the full amount of
the tax imposed under this Article 03.

26.03.25	NO INCREASE IN TAX PERCENTAGE OR CHANGE IN
METHODOLOGY WITHOUT VOTER APPROVAL; AMENDMENT OR
REPEAL:

The City Council may repeal or amend this Article 03 of the San Marino Municipal Code
and reduce the tax rate without a vote of the People. However, as required by Chapter XIIIC of
the California Constitution, voter approval is required for any amendment provision that would
increase the rate of any tax levied pursuant to this Ordinance, provided however, the following
actions shall not constitute an increase of the rate of a tax:

A.	The restoration of the rate of the tax to a rate that is no higher than that set by this
Ordinance, if the City Council has acted to reduce the rate of the tax;

B.	An action that interprets or clarifies the methodology of the tax, or any definition
applicable to the tax, so long as such interpretation or clarification (even if
contrary to some prior interpretation or clarification) is not inconsistent with the
language of this Ordinance;

C.	The establishment a class of persons that is exempt or excepted from the tax or
the discontinuation of any such exemption or exception (other than the

-25-

discontinuation of an exemption or exception specifically set forth in this
Ordinance); and

D.	The collection of the tax imposed by this ordinance, even if the City had, for some
period of time, failed to collect the tax.

26.03.26	TERMINATION OR SUSPENSION OF UTILITY USER TAX:

This ordinance shall be automatically repealed, and the tax no longer collected, as of
March 31, 2027, if not repealed earlier by the City Council. Each service supplier shall, upon
notification, terminate or suspend any utility user tax commencing with the first full billing
period which occurs after the effective date of such action by the City Council.

Section 2. Interaction with Prior Tax.

A.	Collection of Tax by Service Providers. Service providers shall begin to collect
the tax imposed by this amended code as soon as feasible after the effective date of this code, but
in no event later than permitted by Section 799 of the California Public Utilities Code.

B.	Satisfaction of Tax Obligation by Service Users. Prior to August 1, 2017, any
person who pays the tax levied pursuant to this code, as it existed prior to its amendment as
provided herein, with respect to any charge for a service shall be deemed to have satisfied his or
her obligation to pay the tax levied pursuant to this code as amended herein, with respect to that
charge. The intent of this paragraph is to prevent the imposition of multiple taxes upon a single
utility charge during the transition period from the prior Utility Users Tax code to the amended
Utility Users Tax code (which transition period ends August 1, 2017) and to permit service
providers or other persons with an obligation to remit the tax hereunder, during that transition
period, to satisfy their collection obligations by collecting either tax.

Section 3. That if any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this Article 03 or any part thereof is for any reason held to be invalid, unlawful or
unconstitutional, such decision, and the decision not to enforce such, shall not affect the validity
of the remaining portion of this Article 03 or any part thereof. The City Council hereby declares
that it would have passed each section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or
phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions,
paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases be declared invalid, unlawful or unconstitutional.

Section 4. Effective Date. This shall be deemed adopted upon the date that the vote is
declared by the City Council and shall go into effect on April 1, 2017.

Section 5. Execution. The Mayor is hereby authorized to attest to the adoption of this
Ordinance by signing where indicated below.

I hereby certify that the foregoing Ordinance was PASSED, APPROVED and
ADOPTED by the People of the City of San Marino on the 3rd day of November, 2015.

-26-

EUGENE SUN, Mayor

ATTEST:

VERONICA RUIZ, City Clerk

STATE OF CALIFORNIA	)

COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES	)	ss

CITY OF SAN MARINO

-27-