

MEASURE A

SAN RAMON VALLEY UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT

Without increasing the current tax rate, to support academic excellence,
retain qualified and experienced teachers, and prepare students for 21st
century college and careers with strong reading, writing, math and science
education, shall San Ramon Valley Unified School District renew its expir-
ing education tax at $144 per parcel for 9 years, with citizen oversight,
annual audits, no funds for administrative salaries, an available exemption
for persons 65 and older, and all funds spent to support local schools?

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF
MEASURE A

The Board of Education of the San Ramon Valley Unified School
District (“Board of Education”) has adopted a resolution proposing to re-
new a parcel tax (a qualified special tax). This ballot measure asks voters
to decide whether a parcel tax should be imposed on parcels within the
District beginning July 1, 2016.

District voters previously approved the parcel tax in 2004, and re-
newed it in 2009. The parcel tax is set to expire on June 30, 2016, accord-
ing to the District. If this measure passes, a parcel tax of $144 per year
would be levied on each parcel of taxable real property within the District
beginning July 1,2016 and expiring on June 30, 2025.

A parcel of taxable real property is any unit of real property located
in the District that receives a separate property tax bill from the Contra
Costa County Treasurer-Tax Collector’s Office. The parcel tax would not
be levied on parcels that are exempt from paying property taxes. The
measure also provides that any person whose property serves as his or
her principal residence and who is 65 years of age or older, or any person
who receives Supplemental Security Income for a disability, may apply to
the District to be exempt from payment of the tax.

The ballot measure states that the proceeds from the parcel tax will
be used to fund “(a) core academic programs in reading, writing, math and
science; (b) Advanced Placement (AP) courses and other programs...; (c)
ongoing teacher training and development to attract and retain teachers;
and (d) career and technical training courses.” Proceeds from the parcel
tax may be used only for the specific purposes set forth in the ballot mea-
sure and according to constitutional and statutory provisions.

1

State law requires the District’s chief fiscal officer to file an annual
report with the Board of Education that states the amount of funds re-
ceived and expended in each year and the status of any projects required
or authorized to be funded with parcel tax proceeds. State law also re-
quires the proceeds from the parcel tax to be deposited into a designated
account. The measure requires the Board of Education to establish a
Citizens’ Oversight Committee, to ensure that proceeds for the parcel tax
are spent for the purposes set forth in the ballot measure.

Two-thirds of those voting on the ballot measure must approve the
measure for it to pass.

A “yes” vote is a vote in favor of authorizing the parcel tax.

A “no” vote is a vote against authorizing the parcel tax.

2

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE A

Vote Yes on A to safeguard quality teachers and educational programs
in our local San Ramon, Danville, Alamo and Dougherty Valley schools,
without increasing taxes by a single penny.

Our community’s excellent schools make our neighborhoods desirable
places to live. By keeping our schools strong, we keep our community
strong and protect property values for all, whether or not we have children
in school.

Since 2004, our San Ramon Valley Unified School District has relied
upon crucial, voter-approved, local funding to strengthen and maintain
core academic programs, prepare students for college and careers and
retain and attract quality teachers to support the success of aJi SRVUSD
students. This funding is due to expire next school year.

Measure A continues existing, local funding that directly benefits our
SRVUSD schools and cannot be taken away by the state. Measure A
provides stable, locally-controlled funding our schools can rely on every
year, providing protection from the instability of the state budget situation,
and keeping our schools on top.

Vote Yes on A to protect academic excellence in our schools.

•	Maintain core academic programs in reading, writing, math and
science

•	Prepare students for 21s1 century college and careers by protect-
ing Advanced Placement and career technical programs

•	Recruit and retain qualified teachers

Measure A includes important fiscal safeguards and does not increase
taxes.

•	Every penny of Measure A goes directly to our local schools and
cannot be taken by the state

•	The independent Citizens’ Oversight Committee ensures all funds
are spent as promised

•	No funds can be used for administrators’ salaries

•	Homeowners age 65 and older are eligible for an exemption

•	Measure A will expire in 9 years and cannot be renewed without
voter approval

Our schools provide an excellent education for our children, preparing
them for success in today’s competitive economy. Keep our schools
strong—vote Yes on A.

Marilyn Cachola Lucey, Parent/Executive Vice President, San Ramon
Valley Council of PTAs

Elaine Betts, Chairman, San Ramon Chamber of Commerce
Andy Li, President, Asian Pacific Islander American Public Affairs Associa-
tion Tri-Valley Chapter (APAPATVC)

San Ramon Valley Education Association, Ann Katzburg,
Teacher/President

Don Ritchey, Retired Retail Executive and Former Danville Mayor

3

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE A

None filed.

4

SAN RAMON VALLEY UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
LOCAL EDUCATION FUNDING RENEWAL MEASURE OF 2015

TERMS AND PURPOSES

Terms. Upon approval of twothirds of those voting on this mea-
sure (this “Measure”), the San Ramon Valley Unified School District (the
“District”) shall be authorized to levy a qualified special tax (the “Educa-
tion Parcel Tax”) of $144 per year on each parcel of taxable real property
in the District for no more than nine (9) years, commencing July 1, 2016,
upon the expiration of the existing education parcel tax of $144 per year
approved by the voters of the District in 2009.

Purposes. The proceeds of this Measure shall be authorized
to be used to fund: (a) core academic programs in reading, writing, math
and science; (b) Advanced Placement (AP) courses and other programs
to prepare all students for success in college and careers; (c) ongoing
teacher training and development to attract and retain teachers; and (d)
career and technical training courses.

Exemptions - Senior Citizens: Recipients of Supplementary
Security Income. In order to provide tax relief to senior citizens within the
District, any parcel owned and occupied by a person 65 years of age or
older shall be exempt from the Education Parcel Tax upon proper applica-
tion to the District. Persons receiving Supplemental Security Income for a
disability, regardless of age, shall also be exempt upon proper application
to the District. Either exemption shall be available pursuant to procedures
to be prescribed by the Board of Education of the District (the “Board of
Education”) or otherwise as required by law or by the Tax Collector (the
“Tax Collector”) of the County of Contra Costa (the “County”). Senior citi-
zens with a current valid exemption under the Excellence in Education Act
of 2009 shall continue to be exempt and not be required to reapply, subject
to those procedures.

ACCOUNTABILITY PROVISIONS

Independent Citizens’ Oversight Committee. The Board of
Education shall establish an independent citizens’ oversight committee
comprised of such members as the Board of Education shall determine to
review expenditures of the moneys raised under this Measure in order to
ensure that such moneys are applied only to authorized purposes.

5

Independent Annual Audit. Upon the levy and collection of the
Education Parcel Tax, the Board of Education shall cause an account to
be established into which the proceeds shall be deposited. For so long
as any proceeds remain unexpended, the Superintendent of the District
shall cause an independent financial auditor to prepare a report to be filed
with the Board of Education no later than December 31 of each year, com-
mencing December 31, 2016, stating (a) the amount collected and ex-
pended in such year, and (b) the status of any projects or description of
any programs required or authorized to be funded under this Measure.
The report may relate to the calendar year, fiscal year, or other appropriate
annual period as the Superintendent of the District shall determine, and
may be incorporated into or filed with the annual budget, audit, or other
appropriate routine report to the Board of Education.

Use Limited to Specific Purposes. All of the purposes named in
this Measure shall constitute the specific purposes of the Education Parcel
Tax, and proceeds of the tax shall be applied only for such purposes.

LEVY AND COLLECTION

The Education Parcel Tax shall be collected by the Tax Collector
at the same time and manner and shall be subject to the same penalties
as	ad valorem property taxes collected by the Tax Collector. Unpaid taxes

shall bear interest at the same rate as the rate for unpaid ad valorem
property taxes until paid. The collection of the Education Parcel Tax shall
not decrease the funds available from other sources of the District in any
period from the effective date hereof.

“Parcel of taxable real property” shall be defined as any unit of real
property in the District which receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem
property taxes from the Tax Collector’s Office. All property which is other-
wise exempt from or on which are levied no ad valorem property taxes in
any year shall also be exempt from the Education Parcel Tax in such year.
Parcels owned and occupied by persons 65 years of age or older and per-
sons receiving Supplemental Security Income for a disability, regardless
of age, shall be exempt from the Education Parcel Tax as provided in this
Measure.

The District shall annually provide a list of parcels which the Dis-
trict has approved for a senior citizen or Supplemental Security Income
for a disability exemption from the Education Parcel Tax to the County tax
collection officials. The County Assessor’s determination of exemption or
relief for any reason other than the senior citizen or Supplemental Secu-
rity Income for a disability exemption of any parcel from taxation shall be

6

final and binding for the purposes of the Education Parcel Tax. Taxpayers
wishing to challenge the County Assessor’s determination must do so un-
der the procedures for correcting a misclassification of property pursuant
to Section 4876.5 of the California Revenue and Taxation Code or other
applicable procedures. Taxpayers seeking a refund of Education Parcel
Taxes paid shall follow the procedures applicable to property tax refunds
pursuant to the California Revenue and Taxation Code.

SEVERABILITY

The Board of Education hereby declares, and the voters by ap-
proving this Measure concur, that every section and part of this Measure
has independent value, and the Board of Education and the voters would
have adopted each provision hereof regardless of every other provision
hereof. Upon approval of this Measure by the voters, should any part be
found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, all
remaining parts hereof shall remain in full force and effect to the fullest
extent allowed by law.

