Ballot question

The following question appeared on the ballot:[i]

u	Shall the Claremont City Council adopt the ordinance levying a new special parcel tax of $286.00 per parcel per year commencing on July 1,  2016 and ending on June 30, 2056, for the purpose of funding the site acquisition, design, construction and furnishing of a new public safety ^ facility?[2]

Impartial analysis

The following impartial analysis of Measure PS was prepared by the office of the city
attorney:

Note: The impartial analysis below states that the tax was designed to continue
until 2047. This is an error; Measure PS was a 40-year tax.[3]

The City of Claremont (the "City") provides public safety services and
operates its own police department, serving its residents, businesses and
members of the public. This ballot measure, Measure PS, proposes a
special parcel tax to fund a new public safety facility.

The California Constitution and state law authorize the voters of the City to
approve a parcel tax for specified purposes. Measure PS proposes to
impose a special parcel tax of $286 per parcel for all parcels within the
City. The tax, if approved, will commence on July 1, 2016 and end on
June 30, 2047. The tax will not increase at any time. The Los Angeles
County Treasurer-Tax Collector will collect the tax at the same time and in
the same manner as ad valorem property taxes are collected.

The proposed tax is a special tax. The proceeds of the tax may only be
used to pay for a new public safety facility within the City, including, but
not limited to, the cost of site acquisition, design, construction and
furnishing of the facility, and all other necessary and related expenses
related thereto, including incidental expenses incurred in the
administration of the tax.

Two-thirds of the qualified voters voting in the election must approve
Measure PS in order to approve the tax.

A "yes" vote on Measure PS authorizes the City, commencing July 1,

2016, to establish a new special parcel tax of $286 per parcel.

A "no" vote on Measure PS prohibits the City from establishing a new
special parcel tax of $286 per parcel.[2]

—Claremont city attorneys

Support

Supporters

The following individuals signed the official argument in favor of Measure PS:[5]

•	Corey Calaycay, mayor of Claremont

•	Sam Pedroza, mayor pro tern of Claremont

•	Opanyi Nasiali, Claremont City council member

•	Joseph M. Lyons, Claremont City council member

•	Larry Schroeder, Claremont City council member

Arguments in favor

Official argument

The following official argument was submitted in favor of Measure PS:

44

Claremont needs a new police station.

The existing 9,762 square feet concrete block building was constructed in
1972. Its structural integrity is questionable, not likely to withstand a major
earthquake. It does not comply with the California "Essential Services
Building Seismic Act" and Federal "Americans with Disabilities Act." The
jail facility does not meet current state standards, risking decertification.
The station is inadequate for modern police operations which require high
technology for effective service. It was built to accommodate 34
employees when the city's population was 24,000. Now there are 62
employees and more than 150 volunteers, with a city population of more
than 35,000.

An option to keep the existing building is risky, cost-prohibitive and
unacceptable. In the likely event of a devastating earthquake, resulting in
the building being unusable, temporary structures at an initial cost of
approximately $2,623,000 ($748,000 annually) will be necessary to
alleviate disruption in public safety. The community must not risk and wait
to construct a new station at a time of dire need, when everyone in the
region would most likely be competing for limited resources (labor,
materials).

With temporary structures and/or decertification of the jail facilities,
Claremont will be forced to house prisoners at other jurisdictions, incurring
additional transportation and boarding costs.

Constructing a new police station now, at the estimated $50 million, is the
most prudent option. We cannot continue to make do with the existing
building, risking public safety.

The police station is the only community facility open 24 hours daily,
BENEFITING EVERYONE EQUALLY. Accordingly the City Council
selected parcel tax as the most equitable means of funding the station.

Approval of this measure will enable the City to borrow funds at the
current low interest rates.

For public safety, we urge a YES vote on November 3, 2015.[2]

—Corey Calaycay, Sam Pedroza, Opanyi Nasiali, Joseph M. Lyons and Larry
Schroeder[5]

Opposition

Opponents

The following individuals signed the official argument in opposition to Measure PS:[6]

•	Bruce D. Cathcart, Claremont resident

•	Hayden E. Lening, Claremont resident

•	Jay N. Pocock, Claremont resident

Arguments against

Official argument

The following official argument was submitted in opposition to Measure PS:

Please vote NO on this extravagant unneeded measure.

The City of Claremont may WANT a lavish police station but the
community does not NEED the one proposed. Here are some reasons this
measure is a bad idea:

The City plans to increase police station square footage by FIVE TIMES to
47,000 square feet: more than an acre under roof.

The direct cost of $50,000,000 is almost TWENTY TIMES that of the
current station in today's dollars. Meanwhile, Claremont's population has
increased by less than half.

The City chose a site that was rejected in 2008 by its expert consultant
due to water, site, and access problems. It is currently a pit, and will cost
millions extra just to make it buildable.

This would be funded by a REGRESSIVE parcel tax. Modest parcels in
south Claremont pay exactly the same as larger and more expenses ones
in the Village or north Claremont.

A 40-year parcel tax is the most costly possible financing option. Each
parcel owner in Claremont will pay $286 yearly for 40 years, almost
$12,000 in all.

With principal and interest totaling $119,500,000, you will be paying
$8,185 per DAY for a police station that will be ready to demolish the day
it is paid off. This is not OWNING, it is RENTING: a replacement building
will immediately be needed.

The City argument resorts to fear-mongering and scare stories about a
natural disaster. These speculative perils cannot justify constructing a
huge 47,000 square foot edifice on fill dirt in a pit.

There are many less expensive and more suitable options that the City
has ignored in its planning. It's time to get serious and pare this proposal
down to something affordable to meet the true NEEDS of our community.
This is not affordable.

Please vote NO[2]

Bruce D. Cathcart, Hayden E. Lening and Jay N. Pocock[6]