IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS FOR MEASURE F2016
APPROVAL OF A UTILITY USER TAX FOR THE ISLA VISTA COMMUNITY

SERVICES DISTRICT

This measure was placed on the ballot by the Board of Supervisors pursuant to direction by the
Local Agency Formation Commission (“LAFCO”) under Government Code section
61250(c)(4). This ballot measure is to determine if the voters in the proposed Isla Vista
Community Services District will authorize the levying of a utility user tax to fund the
proposed District. A “YES” vote by a two-thirds the voters means that the utility user tax shall
be imposed, provided formation of the proposed District is approved by a majority of the voters
in a separate ballot measure. A “NO” vote is a vote against imposition of a utility user tax. If
the voters do not approve a utility user tax on or before January 1, 2023, regardless of whether
the voters approve District formation, the District shall be dissolved as of that date.

The District would encompass a population of approximately 15,000 residents in the
unincorporated area of the County of Santa Barbara known as Isla Vista and is approximately a
half square mile, coterminous with the boundaries of County Service Area No. 31, excluding any
property owned by the Regents of the University of California within those boundaries.

Effective January 1, 2016, Government Code section 61250 was added to the Community
Services District Law to provide for formation of the District. LAFCO was required to order
formation, but had discretion to determine which services could be provided and to establish the
utility user tax rate.

LAFCO ordered the formation of the District, subject to voter approval, determined which
services may initially be provided and set the utility user tax rate at 8 percent. The utility user
tax is subject to a two-thirds voter approval. The tax shall only be used to fund the following
services:

(A)	Finance the operations of municipal advisory councils.

(B)	Create a tenant mediation program.

(C)	Finance the operations of area planning commissions.

(D)	Exercise the powers of a parking district.

(E)	Contract with the County of Santa Barbara or the Regents of the University of
California, or both, for additional police protection services to supplement the level of
police protection services already provided by either the County of Santa Barbara or the
Regents of the University of California within the area of the district.

(F)	Acquire, construct, improve, maintain, and operate community facilities, including,
but not limited to, community centers, libraries, theaters, museums, cultural facilities, and
child care facilities.

Santa Barbara LAFCO

Impartial Analysis-Utility User Tax for the Isla Vista CSD

(G)	Acquire, construct, improve, and maintain sidewalks, lighting, gutters, and trees to
supplement the level of service already provided by either the County of Santa Barbara or
County Service Area 31.

(H)	Abate graffiti.

If approved by the voters, a utility user tax may be imposed by resolution of the board of
directors of the District on utilities of gas, water, electricity, sewer, or garbage disposal services
but shall not apply to any utility provided by a telecommunications service provider. The Isla
Vista Governance Options Financial Analysis Study submitted to LAFCO estimated the tax
could generate $320,000 to $512,000 annually.

by/Paul Hood, Executive Officer
Santa Barbara LAFCO