The question for Measure A:

"Shall the people of Solano County enact a one-quarter of one percent sales tax for general
governmental purposes such as improving children's services to homeless children, preventing child
abuse, improving access to high quality childcare and preventative child health care programs, providing
employment opportunities for youths and other essential services for ten years and assure public
accountability by means of a citizens' oversight committee and annual audits?"

COUNTY COUNSEL'S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE A

A YES vote on this measure means: The one-quarter of one percent (0.25%) sales tax will be levied for
10 years.

A NO vote on this measure means: The one-quarter of one percent (0.25%) sales tax will not be levied.

The County of Solano proposes a general transactions and use tax (sales tax) of one-quarter of one cent
per dollar (0.25%). The tax will be levied for no more than 10 years unless extended by the voters. The
Board of Supervisors placed the measure on the ballot.

State law authorizes the County to levy a general sales tax if the ordinance proposing the tax is approved
by a two-thirds vote of all members of the Board of Supervisors and the tax is approved by a majority of
the qualified voters of the entire county voting in the election. The Board of Supervisors unanimously
approved the tax on August 2, 2016. If a majority of the voters in the County who vote on this measure
vote "Yes," the measure will pass and the sales tax will be levied.

The estimated annual revenue generated by this general tax, which is listed on the ballot in the Fiscal
Impact Statement, will be deposited into the General Fund and will be available for general
governmental purposes, such as improving children's services to homeless children, preventing child
abuse, improving access to high quality childcare and preventative child health care programs, providing
employment opportunities for youths and other essential services. The Board of Supervisors will annually
appropriate the revenue from the tax for general governmental purposes. This measure does not
restrict the use of the tax revenue to any specific purpose.

The tax will be paid in addition to the current sales tax. Like the current sales tax, the tax will be
imposed on all retailers in the incorporated and unincorporated territory of the County for the selling of
tangible personal property, subject to certain exemptions and exclusions identified in the measure.

An independent citizens' oversight committee will review the receipt and expenditures of the tax
revenue, including the County's annual independent audit, in conjunction with the County's budget
process. The committee will make recommendations to the Board of Supervisors regarding
expenditures from the tax.

If approved, the tax will take effect immediately on November 8, 2016 and become operative on April 1,
2017. The tax will terminate in 10 years unless a majority of voters reauthorize the tax at a subsequent
election.

Dennis Bunting
Solano County Counsel
[EC § 9160]

Argument in Favor Of Measure A

Parents, community members and professionals all agree-children and families in
Solano County do not get the support that children in other counties rely on.

This is a major barrier to our children's success in school and in life. Our children
deserve better!

Two measures on this ballot will create and fund the Solano Fund for Children and
invest in preventative programs that will fill some of the gaps confronting local
children and their families. Measure A will impose a % cent sales tax throughout the
county, raising an estimated 16.8 million dollars per year for ten years. Measure B
assures that all Measure A revenues will go entirely to the Solano Fund for Children
to serve only Solano children and their families. Money from the Fund will be spent
on:

•	Homeless Children

•	Prevention of Child Abuse

•	Quality Preschool and Afterschool Programs

•	Preventative Child Health Care

•	Jobs for Youth

Solano does not get its fair share of state and federal funding for children’s services,
and gets almost no private foundation funds at all to support children. If we want to
compete with the rest of the region, we have to support our own children by
creating the Solano Fund for Children. It is what responsible citizens and caring
adults must do.

We will make sure that the funds are spent responsibly, efficiently and as promised.
This measure includes strict accountability provisions including a citizen’s oversight
committee, annual audits and public reporting of all expenditures.

We can make sure that every child in our community has the opportunity to
succeed, and remember, both measures must pass to assure the creation and
funding of the Solano Fund for Children.

Join us and Vote "Yes" on Measure A and "Yes" on Measure B!

/s/James W (Jay) Speck, Solano County Superintendent of Schools

/s/Juan Cisneros, President of the Solano Children’s Alliance

/s/Joanie Erickson, Executive Director of the Solano Coalition for Better Health

/s/Rev. David C Isom, Senior Pastor of St Stephen CME Church

/s/Shelee Loughmiller, Program Manager at Food Bank of Contra Costa and Solano

BALLOT ARGUMENT AGAINST COUNTY SALES TAX INCREASE

MEASURE A

NO on Measure A! It's a blank check! This measure raises the sales tax on every taxable
purchase, from gasoline and tires to soap and clothes, with NO GUARANTEE HOW THE
MONEY WILL BE SPENT.

The bait is companion Measure B, an "advisory only" measure suggesting one way the money
could be spent. But that's all it is - BAIT.

The County tried the same thing in June. They proposed a sales tax increase coupled with an
"advisory" measure suggesting the money could be spent on transportation improvements and
road maintenance, hoping we would bite. But we didn't.

Since the possibility of pothole repair didn't entice us to raise taxes, the County is now hoping
we'll do it "for the children." Like a fisherman trying different lures, the County is dangling different
shiny promises hoping that we'll fall for one and raise taxes.

But they're not promises. If the County wanted to be bound, it would put the promise here, in the
actual tax measure. But this, the actual tax measure, says the revenue "is available for general
governmental purposes." Every penny could legally be used for something else, like increasing
salaries and pensions.

That's why the public employee unions are campaigning for this measure! They want a big slice
of that new revenue.

Even the promise of "citizen oversight" is hollow. The measure expressly states that oversight
shall NOT include "decision-making on spending priorities."

Even if the money is given, as suggested, to "nonprofit organizations" providing "services" for
children, who are these organizations? How much of their budgets actually help children? Who
are these children? Do they live in our city? All unanswered questions.

Demand binding promises! Until then, don't raise taxes on seniors, poor people and working
families. Vote NO!

s/Timothy A Bittle, Director of Legal Affairs, Howard Jarvis Taxpayers Association
s/George Guynn Jr. President, Solano County Taxpayers Association

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF SOLANO COUNTY MEASURE A

Measure A is really about two lawsuits:

$	The one Solano County should be filing, but is strategically delaying.

$	The one Solano County will face if Measure A passes.

Proponents claim children in Solano County don’t receive the same support children in
other counties receive because “Solano does not get its fair share of state and federal
funding for children’s services.”

If that’s true, then Solano should sue for its fair share! Why ask voters to raise taxes?

Is the plan to raise taxes first, then sue for state and federal funding so the Measure A
money can be diverted elsewhere?

Remember, Measure A is carefully drafted to contain NO GUARANTEES the money will
go to children’s programs!

The second lawsuit? California’s constitution requires TWO-THIRDS voter approval of
taxes promised for specific purposes. The County thinks it has outwitted the
constitution by separating the tax (Measure A) from the purpose (Measure B). It plans
to impose the tax with simple majority approval.

But if the County levies the tax without 2/3 approval, taxpayer organizations and public
interest groups are ready to sue. Then every penny generated by the new tax could go
to lawyers instead of children’s programs.

Proponents try to guilt us into raising taxes by saying it’s what responsible citizens do.
Actually, responsible citizens demand that county leaders represent them in petitioning
state and federal agencies for their fair share of funding. And responsible citizens avoid
foolhardy gambles that invite lawsuits costing millions. Vote NO!

s/ Howard Jarvis Taxpayers Association, Timothy A. Bittle, Director of Legal Affairs
s/ Solano County Taxpayers Association, George Guynn Jr. President

Rebuttal to Argument Against Measure A
YES on Measures A and B!

These measures were brought to the Board of Supervisors by a BROAD
GRASSROOTS COMMUNITY COALITION after over a decade of study including
exploring other funding alternatives. It is made up of the people in Solano that are
most knowledgeable about the needs of children: parents, childcare workers,
teachers, nurses, non-profit leaders and even young people themselves.

The money will go to under-resourced services for children and youth through a
rigorous, transparent selection process overseen by representatives from the
community, including every city in the County.

Measures A and B together include multiple measures of accountability:

•	The Oversight Committee will consist of local experts on the needs of our
children who have the knowledge and commitment to ensure that no money
is wasted.

•	Independent evaluations and audits are required.

•	Transparency and community input is required. The public can see how
every dime is spent and how effective the programs are.

•	The measure will sunset in ten years. This is a strong incentive to ensure,
during this limited time, that all that can be done for kids is done.

The community coalition that is sponsoring this measure will still be here as
watchdogs and will monitor the implementation of the Children’s Fund every step of
the way.

Our children are worth one-quarter of one penny on our purchases. It's a tiny
price to pay for our children's future. Investing in children is the best investment
our community can make.

Say "YES" to our children!

/s/ James W (Jay) Speck, Solano County Superintendent of Schools

/s/ Juan Cisneros, President of the Solano Children’s Alliance

/s/ Joanie Erickson, Executive Director of the Solano Coalition for Better Health

/s/ Rev. David C Isom, Senior Pastor of St Stephen CME Church

/s/ Shelee Loughmiller, Program Manager at Food Bank of Contra Costa and Solano

ORDINANCE NO. 2016 - 1 772

AN ORDINANCE ADDING ARTICLE XVII TO CHAPTER 11 OF THE SOLANO COUNTY CODE
IMPOSING A GENERAL COUNTYWIDE TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX TO BE
ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION

The people of the County of Solano ordain as follows:
Section 1.

Article XVII is added to Chapter 11 of the Solano County Code to read:
ARTICLE XVII. SOLANO COUNTY 2017 TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX

Section 11- 700 Title.

This ordinance shall be known as the “Solano County 2017 Transactions and Use Tax
Ordinance.” This ordinance shall be applicable in the incorporated and unincorporated territory of
Solano County ("the “County").

Section 11- 701 Operative Date.

"Operative date" means the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing more than 110
days after the adoption of this ordinance.

Section 11 - 702 Purpose.

This ordinance is adopted to achieve the following, among other purposes, and directs
that its provisions are interpreted to accomplish those purposes:

(a)	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the provisions of Part 1.6
(commencing with section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code and section 7285 of
Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, which authorizes the County to adopt this tax
ordinance which shall be operative if a majority of the qualified voters voting on the measure vote to
approve the imposition of the tax at an election called for that purpose.

(b)	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates provisions identical to
those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California insofar as those provisions are consistent
with the requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code.

(c)	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax and provides a
measure for it that the State Board of Equalization can administer and collect in a manner that adapts
itself as fully as practicable to, and requires the least possible deviation from, the existing statutory and
administrative procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization in administering and collecting
the California Sales and Use Taxes.

(d)	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance which can be administered in a manner
that shall be, to the greatest degree possible, consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting the transactions and use taxes, and at
the same time, minimize the burden of record keeping upon persons subject to taxation under the
provisions of this ordinance.

(e)	To raise the appropriations limit for the County.

1

Section 11- 703 Contract with State.

Prior to the operative date, the County shall contract with the State Board of Equalization to
perform all functions incident to the administration and operation of this transactions and use tax
ordinance; provided, that if the County has not contracted with the State Board of Equalization prior to
the operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract, and in that case the operative date will be the first
day of the first calendar quarter following the execution of the contract.

Section 11- 704 Transactions Tax Rate.

For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax is imposed upon all retailers
in the incorporated and unincorporated territory of the County at the rate of 1/4 of 1 percent (0.25%) of
the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail in the
territory on and after the operative date of this ordinance.

Section 11- 705 Place of Sale.

For the purposes of this ordinance, all retail sales are consummated at the place of business of
the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is delivered by the retailer or his or her agent to
an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross
receipts from such sales shall include delivery charges, when such charges are subject to the state
sales and use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no
permanent place of business in the State, or has more than one place of business, the place or places
at which the retail sales are consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations to be
prescribed and adopted by the State Board of Equalization.

Section 11- 706 Use Tax Rate.

An excise tax is imposed on the storage, use or other consumption in the County of tangible
personal property purchased from any retailer on and after the operative date of this ordinance for
storage, use or other consumption in the territory at the rate of 1/4 of 1 percent (0.25%) of the sales
price of the property. The sales price shall include delivery charges when such charges are subject to
state sales or use tax regardless of the place to which delivery is made.

Section 11- 707 Adoption of Provisions of State Law.

Except as otherwise provided in this ordinance and except insofar as they are inconsistent with
the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1
(commencing with section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are adopted and
incorporated by this reference.

Section 11- 708 Limitations on Adoption of State Law and Collection of Use Taxes.

(a)	In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code,
wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing authority, the name of this County
shall be substituted for it. However, the substitution shall not be made when:

(1)	The word “State” is used as a part of the title of the State Controller, State Treasurer,
State Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or the Constitution of the State of California.

(2)	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against this
County or any agency, officer, or employee of it rather than by or against the State Board of
Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the administration or operation of this ordinance.

(3)	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to, sections referring to the
exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the substitution would be to:

2

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use
or other consumption of tangible personal property which would not otherwise be exempt from this tax
while such sales, storage, use or other consumption remain subject to tax by the State under the
provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, or

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other
consumption of tangible personal property which would not be subject to tax by the State under the
provisions of that code.

(4)	In sections 6701, 6702 (except in its last sentence), 6711, 6715, 6737, 6797 or 6828
of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

(b)	The word “County” shall be substituted for the word “State” in the phrase “retailer engaged in
business in this State” in section 6203 and in the definition of that phrase in section 6203.

Section 11- 709 Permit Not Required.

If a seller’s permit has been issued to a retailer under section 6067 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, this ordinance shall not require an additional transactor’s permit.

Section 11-710 Exemptions and Exclusions.

(a)	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the use tax the
amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or by any city, city and county or
county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sale and Use Tax Law or the amount of any state
administered transactions or use tax.

(b)	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax the gross
receipts from:

(1)	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum products, to
operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the County in which the sale is made
and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property under
the authority of the laws of California, the United States, or any foreign government.

(2)	Sales of property to be used outside the County which is shipped to a point outside
the County, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by the retailer or his or her agent,
or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at such point. For the purposes of
this subsection, delivery to a point outside the County shall be satisfied:

a.	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject to
registration under Chapter 1 (commencing with section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft
licensed according to section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels registered
under Chapter 2 of Division 3.5 (commencing with section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration to
an out-of-County address and by a declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, stating
that such address is, in fact, his or her principal place of residence; and

b.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of business out-
of-County and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that the vehicle shall be
operated from that address.

(3)	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to furnish the property
for a fixed price under a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

(4)	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such property, for

any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by the
lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.	^

(5)	For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4) of this subdivision, the sale or lease of
tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated under a contract or lease for any period
of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract
or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

(c)	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this ordinance, the storage, use or other
consumption in this County of tangible personal property:

(1)	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a transactions tax
under any state administered transactions and use tax ordinance,

(2)	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of aircraft and used or
consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of
persons or property for hire or compensation under a certificate of public convenience and necessity
issued under the laws of California, the United States, or any foreign government. This exemption is in
addition to the exemptions provided in sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

(3)	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price under a
contract entered into before the operative date of this ordinance.

(4)	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the tangible personal
property arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such property for any period of time for
which the lessee is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by a lease before the operative
date of this ordinance.

(5)	For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4) of this section, storage, use, or other
consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power over, tangible personal property shall
be deemed not to be obligated under a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to
the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether
or not such right is exercised.

(6)	Except as provided for in subsection (7), a retailer engaged in business in the
County shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible personal property, unless
the retailer ships or delivers the property into the County or participates within the County in making the
sale of the property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving the order, either directly or
indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer in the County or through any representative, agent,
canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the County under the authority of the retailer.

(7)	“A retailer engaged in business in the County” shall also include any retailer of the
following: vehicles subject to registration under Chapter 1 (commencing with section 4000) of Division 3
of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed according to section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or
undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with section 9840) of the Vehicle
Code. That retailer shall be required to collect use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the
vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the County.

(d)	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit against that tax any
transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a county imposing, or a retailer liable for
a transactions tax under Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code with respect to the
sale to the person of the property the storage, use or other consumption of which is subject to the use
tax.

4

Section 11-711 Amendments.

All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6
and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part
1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part of this
ordinance, provided however, that no such amendment shall operate to affect the rate of tax imposed
by this ordinance.

Section 11- 712 Enjoining Collection Forbidden.

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit, action
or proceeding in any court against the State of California or the County, or against any officer of the
State of California or the County, to prevent or enjoin the collection under this ordinance, or Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.

Section 11 - 713 Use of the Taxes.

The tax imposed by this ordinance is a general tax within the meaning of article XIII C, section
1(a) of the California Constitution. The revenue generated by this general tax is available for general
governmental purposes and shall be paid into the General Fund for use by the County.

Section 11 - 714 Increase of Appropriations Limit.

The appropriations limit of the County shall be increased by the amount of the revenue
anticipated to be collected by the County from the transactions and use tax to allow spending of the tax
revenue for the period allowed by law.

Section 11 - 715 Independent Citizens’ Oversight Committee and Annual Audit.

(a)	The Board of Supervisors shall establish a citizens’ oversight committee to provide
transparency and ensure fiscal accountability. The committee shall review the receipt and expenditures
of the revenue from the transactions and use tax, including the County's annual independent audit.
The committee’s review shall be completed in conjunction with the County’s budget process. The
committee shall produce an annual oral or written report on its review which shall be considered by the
Board of Supervisors at a public meeting. The committee shall provide budget recommendations to the
Board of Supervisors regarding expenditures from the transactions and use tax. Any written report
shall be a public record. The Board of Supervisors shall adopt a resolution regarding the appointment of
the committee members and any additional duties of the committee.

(b)	The funds collected from the transactions and use tax ordinance shall be accounted for and
tracked by the county auditor-controller in a separate fund to facilitate citizen oversight.

(c)	The amount generated by this general purpose revenue source and how it was used shall
be included in the annual audit of the County's financial operations by an independent certified public
accountant, which the committee shall review.

(d)	To preserve the integrity and independence of the oversight process, the committee’s
responsibilities shall not include decision-making on spending priorities, financing plans or tax rate
projections or assumption and the committee shall have no authority to direct, nor shall it direct, County
staff or officials.

Section 11-716 Effective Date.

This ordinance relates to the levying and collecting of the County’s transactions and use taxes
and shall take effect immediately upon the close of the polls on November 8, 2016, if approved by a
majority of the qualified voters of the entire county voting on the measure at the election held that day.

5

Section 11-717 Termination Date.

The authority to levy the tax imposed by this ordinance shall expire ten (10) years from the
operative date, unless extended by the voters in the manner set forth in Revenue and Taxation Code
section 7285.

Section 11-718 Compliance with California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA).

Under CEQA Guidelines section 15378(b) (4), adoption of this ordinance is not a project subject
to the requirements of CEQA.

Section 11-719 Severability.

If any provision of this ordinance or its application to any person or circumstance is held invalid,
the remainder of the ordinance and the application of such provision to other persons or circumstances
shall not be affected.

Section 2.

This ordinance shall be published once within fifteen (15) days after its passage, in the Fairfield Daily

Republic, a newspaper of general circulation in Solano County.

Passed and adopted by the Solano County Board of Supervisors at its regular meeting on August 2,
2016, by the following vote:

AYES:

SUPERVISORS

Seifert,Sperinq,Thomson,Vasquez
and Chairwoman Hannigan________

NOES:	SUPERVISORS

EXCUSED:	SUPERVISORS

ATTEST:

BIRGITTA E. CORSELLO, Clerk
Solano jCountv Board ohSupervisors

None.

None.

ERIN HANNIGAN/yhairwoman
Solano County B&^rd of Supervisors

JeaneTfd'Neiger, Chief DepuMCIerl

Introduced:

Adopted:

Effective:

Operative:

July 26, 2016
August 2, 2016

November 8, 2016 [if voter approved]
April 1, 2017 [if voter approved]

6