Argument in Favor of Measure A

Vote YES on Measure A to preserve, improve and protect Nevada County Libraries. Measure A will
collect X of every penny of sales tax accumulated...on!y 25 cents in sales tax for every $100 spent on
taxable items in Nevada County. All Measure A funds will remain under local control and will be used
exclusively to support Nevada County libraries. Nothing can be cut by the State or redirected for other
purposes.

Vote YES on Measure A to continue the tax that voters have previously approved two times. The Library
sales tax currently provides 65% of the Library budget Without this important public support, hours
would be reduced drastically, branches would be closed and popular programs and services would be
eliminated.

Vote YES on Measure A to:

Enhance library hours of service

Improve services, programs and materials for children and teens
Improve access to technology for everyone

Continue oversight and reports by the Independent Citizens' Oversight Committee

Nevada County residents have always loved their libraries. This past year Nevada County residents
visited the library 346,962 times and checked out 678,793 items.

Our six libraries improve the quality of life in their communities by providing enrichment to people of all
ages. The Library sales tax measures have been critical to maintaining hours, preventing closures and
providing valuable programs to Nevada County since 1998. Vote YES on Measure A to renew this
funding and protect our local libraries!

Word says....243 words

Primary Argument In Favor Of Measure A

Signed:

James R. Hemlg, Jr.
Marty Lombardi
Alexis C TJoa
Jason E. Fouyer
MaryJane Huenergardt

Author:

Carol S. Scofield

Nevada County, California, Library
Sales Tax Increase, Measure A
(November 2016)

Following California’s 2018 initiative process?

Subscribe to the California Counter

Get weekly updates from Ballotpedia on: actions by the state legislature, new filings, related lawsuits,

breaking news emails & more.

Click here and start vour free trial.

Measure A:Nevada
County Library
Sales Tax Increase

The basics

Election date:

November 8, 2016

Status:

'*r Approved
Majority required:

66.67 percent

Topic:

Local sales tax

Amount: Increase from
0.125% to 0.25%
Expires in: 15 years

Related articles

Local sales tax on the
ballot

November 8, 2016 ballot
measures in California

Nevada County,
California ballot
measures

County tax on the ballot

See also

Nevada County,

California

A sales tax measure was on the ballot for Nevada County voters in Nevada
County. California, on November 8. 2016. It was approved.

yes vote was a vote in favor of raising the sales tax to fund library
services from 0.125 percent to 0.25 percent and extending the tax for
another 15 years.

no vote was a vote against imposing a 0.25 percent libary sales tax and in
of allowing the 0.125 percent sales tax to expire on September 30,

A two-thirds (66.67 percent) supermajority vote was required for the approval of
Measure A.

| Election results

Measure A

Result	Votes	Percentage
v Yes	38,423	70.77%
No	15,873	29.23%

Election results from Nevada County Elections Office

| Text of measure

Ballot question

The following question appeared on the ballot:01

44 To maintain, restore and enhance library services including:

•	Providing children/teen services, such as homework help, computer classes,
and school outreach;

•	Enhancing senior/disabled services;

•	Maintaining/restoring Library hours at all branches;

•	Keeping materials and services current,

shall an ordinance be adopted extending the existing voter-approved sales tax at
the adjusted rate of 1/4 cent, raising approximately $4 million annually, for 15
years, with citizen oversight, and requiring that all funds benefit Nevada County
libraries?01

Impartial analysis

The following impartial analysis of the measure was prepared by the office of the
Nevada County Counsel:

State law authorizes a county board of supervisors to propose a special
county wide transactions and use tax ("sales tax") for public library programs,
operations and facilities within the county. In June 1998, the Nevada County
Board of Supervisors (“Board”) proposed, and the voters approved, a special
library sales tax at the rate of 0.125% for 15 years, in November 2002, the Board
proposed, and the voters approved, a continuation of the 0.125% special library
sales tax which will expire on September 30, 2018.

The Board adopted Ordinance 2414, which amends the current special library
sales tax ordinance by increasing the special tax rate from 0.125 percent to 0.25
percent, and extending the term of the special tax for an additional 15 years. This
Ordinance is subject to approval by, and will only become effective if, 2/3rds of
the voters voting on this ballot Measure approve the Measure. If the Measure is
approved by the voters, the adjusted tax rate will replace and supersede the
existing tax rate as of April 1, 2017. If the Measure is not approved by the voters,
the existing library special tax will remain in effect at the current rate, but only
until it expires.

95

As required by State law, proceeds from the special library tax must be placed in
a Special fund and may only be used for the specific purposes identified in
Expenditure Plan included in the Measure. These purposes include adding and
relocating library services based on demand and cost effectiveness; extending
service hours at library branches; providing increased programs and services for
children, teens, seniors and persons with disabilities; increasing and replacing
worn out and out-of-date library materials; increasing and improving information
services and technology access in branch libraries and remote locations; and the
continuation ofa Citizens Review Panel established by the Board to ensure that
proceeds from the special library sales tax are appropriated in accordance with
the Expenditure Plan. The Measure requires that revenues collected from the
special library tax be used only to supplement existing Library funding, and not
to supplant existing funding for Library services.

The Measure requires the County’s Chief Fiscal Officer to file an annual report
with the Board regarding the amount of special library tax revenue collected and
expended, and the status of any project funded by the special library tax revenue.
The Special library tax would be imposed on all retailers in the incorporated and
unincorporated County for the selling of tangible personal property at retail,
subject to certain exemptions and exclusions identified in the Measure.

A "Yes" vote is a vote to approve the special Library sales tax at the adjusted rate
of one- quarter of one percent and extend the special tax for an additional 15
years.

A "No" vote is a vote to disapprove the special Library sales tax at the adjusted
rate of one-quaiter of one percent and an extension of the tax at the adjusted rate
for an additional 15 years.121

—Nevada County Counsel111

Full text

The full text of the measure is available here.

Path to the ballot

See also:	Laws governing, local ballot measures in California

This measure was put on the ballot through a vote of the governing officials of
Nevada County, California.

| Recent news

The link below is to the most recent stories in a Google news search for the
terms Nevada County Local sales tax. These results are automatically
generated from Google. Ballotpedia does not curate or endorse these articles.

Nevada County. California. Library Sales Tax Increase.
Measure A (November 2016) - Google News

| See also

Local measures

•	Local measures in 2016

•	Local sales tax on the
ballot

•	County tax on the ballot

•	Nevada County measures

California

•	November 8, 2016 measures in
California

•	Local ballot measures, California

•	Nevada County, California

News and analysis

•	State and local preemptior
conflicts

•	Measures advancing natio

agendas

| External links

Suggest a link

•	Nevada County Elections Office website

| Footnotes

1. 'b Jumpupto:Le M Nevada County,"Measure A." accessed October 18. 2016
2 /|v jump up to:zo gj. Note:	jfife fexf js quoted verbatim from	the original source.

Any inconsistencies are attributed to the original source.