EXHIBIT “A”

CITY OF OROVILLE
ORDINANCE NO. 1816

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF OROVILLE AMENDING
AND ADDING CHAPTER 3.18 TO THE OROVILLE MUNICIPAL CODE REGARDING
A TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX TO BE ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE BOARD

OF EQUALIZATION

The People of the City of Oroville, State of California do ordain as follows:

SECTION 1: Chapter 3.18 is hereby added to the Oroville Municipal Code to read as
follows:

CHAPTER 3.18
Temporary Transactions and Use Tax

Sections:	
3.18.010	Title
3.18.020	Operative Date
3.18.030	Purpose
3.18.040	Contract with State
3.18.050	Transaction Tax Rate
3.18.060	Place of Sale
3.18.070	Use Tax Rate
3.18.075	Citizens Oversight Committee
3.18.080	Adoption of Provisions of State Law
3.18.090	Limitations on Adoption of State Law and Collection of Use Taxes
3.18.100	Permit Not Required
3.18.110	Exemptions and Exclusions
3.18.120	Amendments
3.18.130	Enjoining Collection Prohibited
3.18.010	Title

This ordinance shall be known as the Temporary Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance.
The City of Oroville hereinafter shall be called “City". This ordinance shall be applicable
in the incorporated area of the City.

3.18.020 Operative Date

“Operative Date” means the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing more than
110 days after the adoption of this ordinance, the date of such adoption being as set forth
below.

3.18.030	Purpose

This ordinance is adopted to achieve the following, and directs that the provisions hereof
be interpreted in order to accomplish those purposes:

A.	To maintain and preserve City of Oroville public services, including police
protection, fire suppression, vehicle repair and maintenance, finance analyst and human
resources services with the City.

B.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the provision of
Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code
and Section 7285.9 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 which authorizes the City to adopt this tax
ordinance which shall be operative if a majority of the electors voting on the measure vote
to approve the imposition of the tax at an election called for that purpose.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates provisions
identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California insofar as those
provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6
of division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax and
provides a measure therefor that can be administered and collected by the State Board
of Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and requires the
least possible deviation from the existing statutory and administrative procedures followed
by the State Board of Equalization in administering and collecting the California State
Sales and Use Taxes.

E.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be administered in a
manner that will be, to the greatest degree possible, consistent with the provisions of Part
1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting the
transactions and use taxes, and at the same time minimize the burden of record keeping
upon persons subject to taxation under the provisions of this ordinance.

3.18.040	Contract with State

Prior to the operative date, the City shall contract with the State Board of Equalization to
perform all functions incident to the administration and operation of this transactions and
use tax ordinance; provided, that if the City shall not have contracted with the State Board
of Equalization prior to the operative date it shall nevertheless so contract and in such
case the operative date shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter following the
execution of such contract.

3.18.050	Transactions Rate Tax

For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail a tax is hereby imposed
upon all retailers in the incorporated area of the City at the rate of one percent (1%) of
the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible personal property sold at
retail in said area for six (6) years from the operative date of this ordinance.

3.18.060 Place of Sale

For the purposes of this ordinance all retail sales are consummated at the place of
business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is delivered by the
retailer or his /her or its agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for
delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall include
delivery charges when such charges are subject to the state sales and use tax regardless
of the place to which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of
business in the State of California or has more than one place of business the place or
places at which the retail sales are consummated shall be determined under rules and
regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the State Board of Equalization.

3.18.070	Use Tax Rate

A complementary tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use, or other consumption in the
incorporated area of the City of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer for
six (6) years after the operative date of this ordinance for storage, use, or other
consumption in such area at the rate of one percent (1%) of the sales price of the property.
The sales price shall include delivery charges when such charges are subject to state
sales or use tax regardless of the place to which delivery is made.

3.18.075	Citizens Oversight Committee

A.	The City Council shall establish and appoint a Citizens Oversight Committee.

B.	The Citizens Oversight Committee shall consist of a nine-member board of
residents and/or business owners and two elected City Council members of the City of
Oroville.

C.	The purpose of the Citizens Oversight Committee shall be to meet with the City’s
Department Heads during the preparation of each fiscal year budget until the ordinance
sunsets, to make recommendations to the City Council regarding how the proceeds from
the implementation of the ordinance will be allocated for the ensuing budget year. The
committee shall make recommendations to the Council to provide for local public
services, including but not limited to police protection, fire suppression, vehicle repair and
maintenance, finance analyst and human resources services that will improve the quality
of life for residents and businesses within the City of Oroville. The committee shall meet
at least quarterly during the fiscal year to ensure that the revenue generated by the
ordinance is allocated and disbursed in accordance with the City budget. All quarterly
and annual budget reports from the committee shall be published on the City of Oroville
website prior to Council adoption of the budget and will be available for public review.

3.18.080 Adoption of Provisions of State Law

Except as otherwise provided in this ordinance and except insofar as they are inconsistent
with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code all of the
provisions of Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a part of this ordinance as though fully set
forth herein.

3.18.090 Limitations of Adoption of State Law and Collection of Use Taxes

In adopting the provisions of Part 1 Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is names or referred to as the taxing agency the
name of this City shall be substituted therefor. However, the substitution shall not be
made when:

1.	The word “State” is used as a part of the title of the State Controller, State
Treasurer, Victim Compensation and Government Control Board, State Board of
Equalization, State Treasury or the Constitution of the State of California;

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against this
City or any agency, officer or employee thereof rather than by or against the State Board
of Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the administration or operation of
this ordinance.

3.	In those sections, including but not necessarily limited to sections referring to the
exterior boundaries of the State of California where the result of the substitution would be
to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or
other consumption of tangible personal property which would not otherwise be exempt
from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other consumption remain subject to tax
by the State under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage use or other consumption of
tangible personal property which would not be subject to tax by the state under the
provision of that code.

4.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711, 6715, 6737,
6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

B.	The work “City” shall be substituted for the word “State” in the phrase “retainer
engaged in business in this State” in Section 6203 and in the definition of that phrase in
Section 6203.

3.18.100	Permit not Required

If a seller’s permit has been issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code an additional transaction’s permit shall not be required by this ordinance.

3.18.110	Exemptions and Exclusions

A. There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the use tax
in the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or by any
City, City and county or county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and
Use Tax Law or the amount of any state administered transactions or use tax.

B.	There shall be exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax
the gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum products to
operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the County in which the
sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers
of persons or property under the authority of the laws of this State the United States or
any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the City which is shipped to a point outside
City pursuant to the contract of sale by delivery to such point by the retailer or his/her or
its agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at such
point. For the purpose of this paragraph, delivery to a point the City shall be satisfied.

a.	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject to registration
pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code,
aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code and
undocumented vessels registered under Chapter 2 of Division 3.5 commencing with
Section 9840) if the Vehicle Code by registration to an out-of-City address and by a
declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that such address is in
fact, his or her principal place of residence; and

b.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of business out-of-
city and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, that the vehicle will be
operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to furnish the
property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of
this ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such property
for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the property for an amount
fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of the ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4) of this section the sale or lease of
tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or
lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the
unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such
right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this ordinance, the storage use
or other consumption in this City of tangible personal property:

1. The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a transactions tax
under any State-administered transactions and use tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of aircraft and used
or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as
common carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under a certificate of
public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this State the United
States or any foreign government. This exemption is in addition to the exemptions
provided in Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and taxation Code of the State of
California.

3.	If the purchase is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price pursuant to
a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

4.	If the possession of or the exercise of any right or power over the tangible personal
property arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such property for any
period of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the property for any amount fixed
by a lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4) of this sub-section, storage, use, or
other consumption or possession of or exercise of any right or power over tangible
personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for
any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right
to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in business in the City
shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible personal property,
unless the retailer ships or delivers the property in the City of participates within the City
in making the sale of the property including, but not limited to soliciting or receiving the
order, either directly or indirectly at a place of business of the retailer in the City or through
any representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor subsidiary, or person in the City under the
authority of the retailer.

7.	“A retailer engaged in business in the City” shall also include any retailer of any of
the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with
Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with
Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels registered under
Chapter 2 of Division 3.5 (commencing with section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That
retailer shall be required to collect use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses
the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the City.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit against that tax any
transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district imposing, or
retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant to part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation code with respect to the sale to the person of the property the storage, use or
other consumption of which is subject to the use tax.

3.18.130	Amendments

All amendments subsequent to the effective date of the ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2
of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and which are not
consistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code,
and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, shall automatically become a part of this ordinance provided however that no such
amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this ordinance.

3.18.140	Enjoining Collection Forbidden

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit
action or proceeding in any court against the State or the City or against any officer of the
State or the City to prevent or enjoin the collection under this ordinance, or Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required
to be collected.

SECTION 2. SEVERABLILITY. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase
portion of the application thereof to any person or circumstance of this ordinance is for
any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, such
portion shall be deemed a separate distinct and independent provision of such ordinance
and shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions thereof.

SECTION 3. CEQA COMPLIANCE. The City Council finds and determines that the
enactment of this Ordinance is not a “project” as that term is used in the California
Environmental Quality Act (“CEQA;” Cal Pub. Resources Code Section 21000 et seq.) or
the State CEQA Guidelines (Cal.Code of Regs. Title 14, Section 15000 et seq.) Therefore
no environmental assessment is required or necessary.

SECTION 4. EFFECTIVE DATE. This ordinance relates to the levying and collecting of
the City transactions and use taxes and shall take effect immediately upon its approval
by voters of the City.

SECTION 5. TERMINATION DATE. The tax levied by this ordinance shall continue at
the rate of 1 % from April 01,2017 until December 31, 2022. The authority to levy the tax
imposed by this ordinance shall expire six (6) years from the operative date of this
ordinance.

SECTION 6. DECLARATION. The proceeds of the taxes imposed by this ordinance
may be used for any lawful purpose of the City, as authorized by ordinance, resolution or
action of the City Council. These taxes are not special taxes within the meaning of
Section 1(d) of Article XIIIC of the California Constitution, but are general taxes imposed
for general government purposes.

SECTION 7. EXECUTION. The Mayor and City Council are authorized to subscribe this
ordinance where indicated below to evidence its approval by the voters of the City.

PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Oroville City Council of the City of Oroville, County of
Butte, State of California, on this 21st day of June, 2016, by the following two-thirds vote:

Ayes:	Council	Members	Berry, Del Rosario, Hatley, Pittman, Simpson, Vice Mayor

Chan Wilcox, Mayor Dahlmeier

Noes:	None

Abstain:	None

Absent:	None

APPROVED AS TO FORM:

\

Scott E. Huber, City Attorney

ATTEST:

I, Acting City Clerk

{/Oroville - Transactions tax ordinance revised.}