Ordinance No. 4116

AN ORDINANCE OF THE COUNTY OF BUTTE RENEWING A SPECIAL PROPERTY
TAX MEASURE FOR STANDBY COSTS OF PROVIDING EMERGENCY ROOM
SERVICES IN A CRITICAL ACCESS HOSPITAL (ORCHARD HOSPITAL), CALLING
AND GIVING NOTICE OF AN ELECTION REGARDING THE TAX TO BE HELD
NOVEMBER 8, 2016, AND SETTING AN APPROVAL MEASURE FOR THE TAX ON
THE NOVEMBER 8,2016 BALLOT

The Board of Supervisors of the County of Butte, State of California, ordains as follows:
SECTION 1. Special Property Tax Provisions.

Subject to approval by the electors of the ballot measure described in Section 2 herein,
the County of Butte hereby amends Article IIA of Chapter 21, entitled “Taxation,” of the Butte
County Code, to read as follows:

“Article IIA. CSA 37 Area Special Property Tax for Standby Costs of
Providing Emergency Room Services in a Critical Access Hospital (Orchard
Hospital).

Section 21A-1. Necessity, Authority and Purpose.

a.	The Board of Supervisors has determined:

1.	It is critically important to the residents and businesses located within
the cities of Biggs and Gridley and the adjacent unincorporated area of Butte
County (which is coterminous with the area within the boundaries of County
Service Area (“CSA”) 37) that a hospital within these communities be available to
provide emergency room services; and,

2.	Orchard Hospital, which is the sole provider of critical emergency room
facilities within these communities, faced closure of its emergency room in the

1

absence of funding provided by this Ordinance for the costs of emergency room
services which are not otherwise offset by the revenues from operation of the
emergency room (referred to herein as the “standby costs”); and,

3.	Closure of Orchard Hospital’s emergency room would constitute a
significant detriment of and to the health, welfare and safety of the citizens
residing within the area encompassed by CSA 37; and,

4.	The levy of a special tax, as hereinafter provided within the area
coterminous with the boundaries of CSA 37 and corresponding special taxes
levied in the cities of Biggs and Gridley, is necessary to provide funding to
maintain operation of Orchard Hospital’s emergency room, so as to provide these
critical services within the southern portion of Butte County.

b.	This Article is adopted in order to maintain a dedicated source of funding in the
form of a special property tax that will be used exclusively for the purpose of
contracting with Orchard Hospital for maintenance of the emergency room
services.

Section 21A-2. Special Tax Established and Levied.

a.	In accordance with and subject to the requirements for voter approval pursuant
to the provisions of Articles XIII A and XIII C of the California Constitution and
Sections 23027, 50075, 50076, 50077 and 53722 et. seq. of the California
Government Code, a special property tax is hereby re-established and shall be
levied annually on all taxable real property in that portion of the unincorporated
area of Butte County that is coterminous with the boundaries of CSA 37, existing

as of the effective date of this Ordinance, which area is hereby designated as a
special zone of benefit within the County of Butte for the purpose of funding
emergency room services, the boundaries of which are described in Exhibit “A,”
attached hereto and incorporated by reference. Commencing in the fiscal year
2006-2007, the special property tax shall be levied annually against all taxable
real property, at the maximum flat rate of no more than seventy dollars ($70.00)
per Single Family Equivalent Residential Unit per year. For the purposes of
defining an Equivalent Residential Unit, the following categories are established:

(1)	Single family residential (1);

(2)	Multi-family residential unit (.75);

(3)	Condominium (.75);

(4)	Vacant parcels and parcels without residential units shall not be
subject to the Tax.

The imposition and levy of this special tax is expressly conditioned upon the re-
adoption by the cities of Biggs and Gridley and the approval of their respective
electorates, of special tax measures within their respective jurisdictions which
also provide funding for the hospital emergency room at the same rates and for
the same duration as set forth in this Article.

b.	For purposes of this Chapter, “taxable” properties are those not owned by the
County, the State of California, any other public district or agency of the State or

3

the United States of America.

c.	The Tax shall not exceed the maximum amount set forth in this section 21A-2,
except that the Tax shall, unless otherwise directed by the Butte County Board of
Supervisors, be increased annually by the percentage equal to the percentage
change in the Construction Engineering Index for the geographic area most
applicable for the preceding twelve (12) month period calculated from April 1 to
March 31. Provided, however, that any such annual increase in the Tax shall not
exceed 3%. If this index should cease publication, the Auditor-Controller shall
use any appropriate official index published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, or
successor, or similar agency as may then exist or may then be most nearly
equivalent thereto.

Section 21A-3. Call of Special Tax Election.

a.	The Board hereby calls an election to be held within the County of Butte on
November 8, 2016, pursuant to Articles XIII A and XIII C of the California
Constitution and Sections 23027, 50075, 50076, 50077 and 53722 et. seq. of the
California Government Code, and Elections Code Section 9140.

b.	The question to be submitted to the County voters at said election shall be:

Shall an existing special property tax to fund standby costs of providing
emergency room services at Orchard Hospital, in the amount of $70 per
residential equivalent unit per year for an additional ten years (vacant parcels and
parcels without residential units shall not be subject to the tax) to raise
approximately $330,000.00 per year, as enacted by Butte County Ordinance No.
4116, and a corresponding increase in the County's spending limit, be approved?

4

YES______________________________ NO_____________

c.	The Butte County Clerk/Recorder shall serve as the election official conducting
this election, in all respects, which shall be consolidated with the general election
to be held on November 8, 2016. The costs of the election shall be borne by the
County.

Section 21A-4. Purposes and Uses of Tax.

The proceeds of the Tax shall be deposited in a special fund, maintained by the
County, which proceeds, together with any interest and penalties thereon,
collected each fiscal year (collectively, the "Tax Proceeds,”), shall be used solely
for standby costs in maintaining the operation of emergency room services by
Orchard Hospital as a critical access hospital. The revenues from the tax shall be
expended only for the above specified purpose. Upon formation of the Biggs-
Gridley Hospital Agency (Agency) the County may transfer the Tax Proceeds to
the Agency in order to provide funding which shall be used to contract with the
Hospital to fund standby costs incurred in maintaining the Hospital’s emergency
room.

Section 21A-5. Computation and Collection of Tax.

The Auditor-Controller or his/her designee is hereby authorized and directed each
fiscal year, commencing with the fiscal year 2006-2007, to determine the Tax
amount to be levied for the fiscal year for each taxable parcel of real property
within the boundaries of CSA 37 area in the unincorporated area of the County, in
the manner and as provided in Section 21A-2. Unless otherwise required by the

5

Board, no Board action shall be necessary to authorize the annual collection of the
Tax as herein provided.

Section 21A-6. Accountability.

Pursuant to Sections 50075.1 and 50075.3 of the California Government Code,
the specific purposes of the Tax and the requirement that the Tax proceeds be
applied to such purposes and the establishment of a special fund for the Tax
proceeds are as set forth in section 21A-3. So long as the Tax is collected
hereunder, commencing no later than July 1, 2007, or as soon thereafter after said
Tax may be levied, the Auditor-Controller is hereby authorized and directed to
cause to be prepared and filed with the Board a report that shows the amount of
Tax collected and expended and the status of any projects funded with the Tax
Proceeds. For purposes of this section 21A-6, the Auditor-Controller is
authorized to retain such consultants, accountants or agents as may be necessary
or convenient to accomplish the foregoing. To the extent that the proceeds of the
special tax are transferred to the Biggs-Gridley Hospital Agency (Agency) to
implement the purpose of the special tax, said Agency shall provide appropriate
information to the County Auditor-Controller in order to provide the annual report
to the Board of Supervisors.

Section 21A-7. Examination of Books and Records and Annual Audit.

The Auditor-Controller or his/her designee or agent, is hereby authorized and
directed to examine assessment rolls, property tax records, records of the Butte
County Recorder and any other records of the County of Butte deemed necessary

6

in order to determine ownership of parcels and computation of the Tax. A
certified public accounting firm retained by the County will perform an annual
audit to assure accountability of the proper disbursement of these Tax Proceeds in
accordance with the objectives stated herein.

Section 21A-8. Collection of Tax: Interest and Penalties.

The Tax shall be collected in the same manner as ordinary ad valorem taxes are
collected and shall have the same lien priority, and be subject to the same
penalties and the same procedure and sale in cases of delinquency as provided for
ad valorem taxes collected by the County of Butte; provided, however, that the
Board may provide for other appropriate methods of collection of the Tax by
appropriate resolution(s) of the Board. The County shall annually take such steps
as are necessary to have the special property taxes collected through the property
tax bill. The County shall be entitled to deduct its reasonable costs incurred in
collecting the special taxes, which shall not exceed .05% of the amount of the
special tax.

Section 21A-9. Collection of Unpaid Taxes.

The amount of the Tax, any penalty, and any interest imposed under the
provisions of this Article shall be deemed a debt to the County. In addition to the
real property lien status imposed by this Article and by law, delinquent taxes and
penalties shall also be considered the personal debt of the person(s) owning the
subject property. Any person owing money under the provisions of this Article

shall be personally liable to all action brought in the name of the County, at its
option, for the recovery for such amount.

Section 21A-10. Refund of Tax, Penalty, or Interest paid More Than Once, or
Erroneously or Illegally Collected.

When the amount of the Tax, any penalty, or any interest has been paid more than
once, or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received by the County
under this Article, it may be refunded, provided a verified claim, in writing,
therefore, stating the specific ground(s) upon which the claim is founded, is filed
with the Auditor-Controller within one (1) year from the date of payment. If the
claim is approved by the Auditor-Controller, the excess amount collected or paid
may be refunded or may be credited against any amounts then due and payable
from the person from whom it was collected or by whom paid, and the balance
may be refunded to such person, his/her administrators or executors.

Section 21A-11. Savings Clause.

The provisions of this Article shall not apply to any person, or to any property as
to whom or which it is beyond the power of the County to impose the Tax herein
provided. If any provision, sentence, clause, section or part of this Article is found
to be unconstitutional, illegal or invalid, such unconstitutionality, illegality or
invalidity shall affect only such provision, sentence, clause, section or part of this
Article and shall not affect or impair any of the remaining provisions, sentences,
clauses, sections or parts of this Article. It is hereby declared to be the intention
of the County that this Article would have been adopted had such

8

unconstitutional, illegal or invalid provision, sentence, clause, section or part
thereof not been included herein.

Section 21A-12. Regulations.

The Board is hereby authorized to promulgate such regulations as it shall deem
necessary to implement the provisions of this Article, including implementing this
Article, which is hereby codified in Chapter 21 Article IIA of the Butte County
Code.

Section 21A-13. Authorization for Spending Limit Increase.

To the extent that the revenue from the special property tax enacted by this Article
is in excess of the spending limit for the County as calculated in accordance with
the provisions of Article XIII B of the California Constitution and applicable
statutory provisions, the approval of the special property tax by the voters shall
constitute approval to increase the County’s spending limit in an amount equal to
the revenue derived from the special property tax for the maximum period of time
as allowed by law.

Section 21A-14. Operative Date and Termination Date.

a.	Operative Date means the first day that the Tax is imposed and collected. The
operative date shall be the day following the certification of the election results
reflecting approval of the special tax by no less than a two-thirds vote, as required
by Articles XIII A and XIII C of the California Constitution.

b.	Termination Date. The authority to levy the Tax imposed by this Ordinance
shall extend only through June 30,2027.

9

Section 21A-15. Validation Pursuant to CCP Section 860 et. seq.

Pursuant to the provisions of Government Code Section 50077.5, any judicial
action or proceeding to attack, review, set aside, void or annul this Article and/or
the approval of the subject special taxes and/or increase in the spending limitation
pertaining to the special tax shall be commenced, if at all, within 60 days of the
date of the adoption hereof.

SECTION 2. Election Provisions.

a.	The Board hereby calls an election to be held within the County of Butte on November 8,
2016, pursuant to Articles XIII A and XIII C of the California Constitution, Sections 23027,
50075, 50076, 50077 and 53722 et. seq. of the California Government Code, and Elections Code
Section 9140.

b.	The question to be submitted to the County voters at said election shall be:

Shall an existing special property tax to fund standby costs of providing emergency room
services at Orchard Hospital, in the amount of $70 per residential equivalent unit per year
for an additional ten years (vacant parcels and parcels without residential units shall not
be subject to the tax) to raise approximately $330,000.00 per year, as enacted by Butte
County Ordinance No. 4116, and a corresponding increase in the County’s spending limit,
be approved?

YES_________________ NO_____________________________

3.	The tax is a special tax and is imposed solely for standby costs of providing
emergency room services in a critical access hospital (Orchard Hospital). The revenues from the

10

tax shall be expended only for those specific purposes and projects and shall be allocated by the
Butte County Auditor/Controller (less administrative costs not to exceed .05%).

4.	Said election shall be held and conducted pursuant to the procedures specified in Part
3 of Division 10 of the Elections Code commencing at Section 10400.

5.	For the purposes of this election, the "County voters" shall include all voters in the
County residing in the unincorporated area within the boundaries of County Service Area 37, as
existing on the date of the adoption of this Ordinance.

SECTION 3. Severability.

If any provision of this Ordinance or the application thereof to any person or
circumstances is for any reason held to be invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, such
provision shall be deemed severable, and the invalidity thereof shall not affect the remaining
provisions or other applications of the Ordinance which can be given effect without the invalid
provision or application thereof.

SECTION 4. Effective date.

This Ordinance, being an ordinance calling and relating to an election, shall take effect
and be in force immediately upon final passage, as provided by Government Code Section
25123. Provided, however, that Section 1 of this Ordinance amending Article II A, entitled “CSA
37 Area Special Property Tax for Standby Costs of Providing Emergency Room Services in a
Critical Access Hospital (Orchard Hospital),” of Chapter 21, entitled “Taxation,” of the Butte
County Code shall become effective immediately upon acceptance by the Board of Supervisors
of the certified results of the November 8, 2016, election (as provided by Elections Code section
15400), but only if approved by a 2/3 majority vote of the voters voting on the issue.

11

PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Board of Supervisors of the County of Butte, State of

California, on the 26Ih day of July, 2016, by the following votes:
AYES: Supervisors Wahl, Kirk, Lambert, Teeter and Chair Connelly
NOES: None
ABSENT: None
NOT VOTING: None

Butte County Board of Supervisors

ATTEST:

PAUL HAHN,

Chief Administrative Officer

___i /—< t_i_ r ..i_n_i

THE FOREGOING INSTRUMENT IS A CORRECT COPY OF
THE ORIGINAL ON FILE AND OF RECORD IN THIS OFFICE
ATTEST	nATF	O.u	QU	.1	7	9.	_

ATTEST

nATF Q.uqu 1/ 9.

Clerk of Ih6 Board of

Clerk of Board of Supervisors
in and for the County Of Butte
State of California

By

j j	In	and	fo

DEPUTY

12