Ballot question

The following question appeared on the ballotqi]

Shall the City of Gonzales Municipal Code be amended to add a
“Commercial Cannabis Tax” on cultivation and manufacturing of medical
marijuana where permissible by state and local law? The cultivation tax
will not exceed $25 per square foot subject to increases after the third
year based on the consumer price index, while the manufacturing tax shall
not exceed 15% of annual gross receipts, both with no termination date,
generating estimated revenues of $1,365,000?[2]

Impartial analysis

The following impartial analysis of the measure was prepared by the office of the
Gonzales City Attorney:

By way of actions taken on January 19 and July 5, 2016, the Gonzales
City Council adopted ordinances adding Chapter 12.144 to the Gonzales
City Code that permit, limit and regulate the cultivation, processing and
manufacturing of medical marijuana (cannabis) within the Gonzales
Agricultural Industrial Business Park. The City Code currently does not
contain provisions that establish a tax for conducting cannabis business.
Since this is a new type of business in the City, a tax specifically
applicable to cannabis businesses must be approved by the voters.

On July 18, the City Council approved an ordinance and resolution placing
Measure W on the November 8, 2016 Consolidated Statewide Election
ballot. Measure W, if adopted by the voters, would approve an ordinance
adding new Chapter 4.64 to the City Code imposing a commercial
cannabis tax on all cannabis cultivation and manufacturing businesses
that operate in the City. The ordinance authorizes the City to charge an
initial tax of fifteen dollars ($15.00) per square foot of space dedicated to
cannabis cultivation, with the ability to raise this tax after three years up to
a maximum of $25.00 per square foot. Commencing in 2020, the
cultivation tax is subject to annual adjustment based on the Consumer
Price Index. The ordinance also establishes an initial tax rate of five
percent (5%) of the annual gross receipts of cannabis manufacturing
activities, with the ability to raise the rate after three years to a maximum
of fifteen percent (15%) of gross receipts. The involved square foot and
gross receipts taxes will be imposed on cannabis businesses and will not
be a sales tax imposed on qualified patients, primary caregivers, or other
persons who purchase or otherwise acquire cannabis for personal use.

All cannabis tax revenue will be deposited in the City’s General Fund, and
can be used to pay for the provision of municipal services, including
essential services such as police, fire safety, recreation, park and road
maintenance, and youth programs. It is estimated that the tax will
generate revenues of $1,365,000.

Because the proposed Commercial Cannabis Tax would be imposed for
general municipal governmental purposes, the ballot measure proposes a
“general tax” as defined by Article XIII of the California Constitution.
Accordingly, for the ballot measure to be adopted, it must receive a simple
majority (over 50%) of yes votes. A “yes” vote on Measure W is a vote to

establish a new Commercial Cannabis Tax. A “no” vote is a vote against
the establishment of the tax.

A full copy of the proposed ordinance is printed in this ballot pamphlet or
available from the City.[2]

•Gonzales City Attorney[3]