RESOLUTION NO. 16-

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF PLEASANT HILL,
CALIFORNIA, CALLING A GENERAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION TO BE HELD IN ITS
JURISDICTION ON NOVEMBER 8, 2016 FOR THE PURPOSE OF SUBMITTING TO
VOTERS A GENERAL TAX MEASURE, TO ESTABLISH A RETAIL TRANSACTIONS
AND USE TAX AT THE RATE OF 1/2%; REQUESTING THE CONTRA COSTA COUNTY
BOARD OF SUPERVISORS TO CONSOLIDATE SAID ELECTION WITH THE STATEWIDE
GENERAL ELECTION TO BE CONDUCTED ON THE SAME DATE AND TO PERMIT THE
ELECTIONS DEPARTMENT TO PROVIDE ELECTION SERVICES; AND SETTING RULES
FOR ARGUMENTS AND REBUTTALS FOR AND AGAINST SAID MEASURE

WHEREAS; the State has taken over $20 million dollars in funds from Pleasant Hill over
the past 10 years through property tax reductions and the dissolution of the City’s Redevelopment
Agency; and

WHEREAS, voter-approved funding will help to address City service needs that Pleasant
Hill residents have indicated are important, including fixing potholes and repairing neighborhood
and city streets, roads, and sidewalks; maintaining storm drains; and providing a library that meets
current health, safety, fire, and seismic standards; and

WHEREAS, voter-approved funding will provide funds for Pleasant Hill that by law
cannot be taken by the State; and

WHEREAS, the proposed measure provides local control over local funds for local needs;

and

WHEREAS, Pleasant Hill currently has more than $14 million dollars in deferred street
maintenance and over $9 million in necessary storm drain improvements, and additional local
funds could help ensure that the City can address critical maintenance needs now before costing
taxpayers millions more in the future; and

WHEREAS, the Pleasant Hill Library is more than 50 years old and does not meet the
safety standards for libraries built today and a seismically safe modem library has been identified
as a community priority; and

WHEREAS, the proposed measure requires accountability provisions such as independent
citizen oversight, mandatory financial audits, and annual updates to the community so that the
public knows exactly how the funds are being spent; and

WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of Pleasant Hill (“City”) is authorized to levy a
Transactions and Use Tax (“TUT”) for general purposes pursuant to California Revenue and Taxation
Code section 7285.9, subject to approval by a majority vote of the electorate pursuant to Article XIIIC,
Section 2 of the California Constitution (“Proposition 218”); and

WHEREAS, the TUT is a general tax, the revenue of which is to be placed in the City’s
general fund and used to pay for important general City services; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 9222 of the California Elections Code, the City Council
has authority to place propositions on the ballot to be considered at a Municipal Election; and

WHEREAS, the City Council would like to submit to the voters a measure establishing a
TUT for a period of twenty (20) years at a rate of 1/2% on the sale and/or use of all tangible personal
property sold at retail in the City; and

WHEREAS, on November 6, 1996, the voters of the State of California approved
Proposition 218 (California Constitution, Article XIIIC), an amendment to the State Constitution
which requires that all general taxes which are imposed, extended or increased must be approved
by a majority vote of the voters; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Proposition 218, any general tax measure submitted to the voters
must be consolidated with a regularly scheduled election for members of the City Council, unless
the City Council places it on a special election, by a unanimous vote, and upon finding that there
exists an emergency requiring an election to be conducted earlier than the next regularly scheduled
election at which City Council members are to be elected; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the Pleasant Hill Municipal Code, §2.55.010, the City’s regular
municipal elections for officers are held on the first Tuesday after the first Monday in November
of each even-numbered year. Therefore, the next regularly scheduled General Municipal Election
for the election of members of the City Council will be held on Tuesday, November 8, 2016; and

WHEREAS, the City Council also desires to consolidate the election for the ballot measure
described herein with the Statewide General Election to be held on November 8, 2016; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to California Elections Code, the City Council further desires to
establish rules and regulations for the preparation, submittal and printing of arguments and
rebuttals for and against the Measure described herein; and

WHEREAS, the specific terms relating to the TUT tax are provided for in the ordinance to
be considered by the qualified voters, attached hereto as Exhibit “A” (the “Ordinance”) and by this
reference made an operative part hereof, and in accordance with all applicable laws.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the City Council of the City of Pleasant
Hill does hereby declare, determine, and order as follows:

SECTION L. Recitals. The City Council of the City hereby finds and determines that the
foregoing recitals are true and correct, are incorporated herein and by this reference made an
operative part hereof.

SECTION 2. Submission of Ballot Measure. Pursuant to California Revenue and Taxation
Code Section 7285.9, California Elections Code Section 9222, and any other applicable
requirements of the laws of the State of California relating to general law cities, the City Council,
by a 2/3 supermajority vote, hereby calls and orders to be held in the City of Pleasant Hill on
Tuesday, November 8,2016, a General Municipal Election for the purpose of submitting the ballot
measure ordinance attached hereto as Exhibit “A” and incorporated herein by this reference to the

City of Pleasant Hill

Resolution 16-___

Page 3

qualified electors of the City, the “Measure”, with said election to be held and consolidated with
the Statewide General Election on Tuesday, November 8, 2016.

SECTION 3. Ballot Measure. The City Council, pursuant to its right and authority, does
hereby order that the ballot measure shall be presented and printed upon the ballot submitted to
the qualified voters in the manner and form set forth in this Section 3. On the ballot to be submitted
to the qualified voters at the election to be held at the General Municipal Election to be
consolidated with the Statewide General Election on Tuesday, November 8, 2016, in addition to
any other matters required by law, there shall be printed substantially the following:

“To provide and maintain Pleasant Hill city services and facilities, including fixing potholes, and repairing neighborhood and city streets; replacing the aging library with a 21st century facility including space for after-school homework and tutoring; creating additional walking and biking paths; maintaining storm drains; and other city	YES	
services; shall the City of Pleasant Hill levy a 1/2 cent sales tax, providing $4,000,000 annually for 20 years, providing locally controlled funding that cannot be taken by the State?”	NO	

SECTION 4. Election Procedures.

A.	The City Council consents to the consolidation of the election on this Measure with all
other elections being held in the same territory on November 8, 2016, and to hold and
conduct the consolidated election in the manner prescribed in Elections Code Section
10418.

B.	The ballots to be used at the election shall be in the form and content as required by
law.

C.	In accordance with Section 10002 of the Elections Code, the Board of Supervisors of
Contra Costa County is hereby requested to consent to the consolidation of this election
with the Statewide General Election on the same date and having the Registrar of
Voters render such election services to the City of Pleasant Hill as may be requested
by the City Clerk of said City, the County of Contra Costa will be reimbursed in full
for such services as are performed.

D.	The election services which the City of Pleasant Hill requests the Registrar of Voters,
or such other official as may be appropriate, to perform and which such officer is hereby
authorized and directed to perform, if said Board of Supervisors consents, include: the
preparation, printing and mailing of sample ballots and polling place cards; the
establishment or appointment of precincts, polling places, and election officers, and
making such publications as are required by law in connection therewith; the furnishing
of ballots, voting booths and other necessary supplies or materials for polling places;
the canvassing of the returns of the election and the furnishing of the results of such
canvassing to the City Clerk of the City of Pleasant Hill; and the performance of such
other election services as may be requested by the City Clerk.

City of Pleasant Hill
Resolution 16-

The polls for the election shall be open at seven o'clock a.m. of the day of the election
and shall remain open continuously from that time until eight o'clock p.m. of the same
day when the polls shall be closed, except as provided in Section 14401 of the Elections
Code of the State of California.

In all particulars not recited in this Resolution, the election shall be held and conducted
as provided by law for holding municipal elections in the City.

Notice of the time and place of holding the election is given and the City Clerk is
authorized, instructed and directed to give further or additional notice of the election,
in time, form, and manner as required by law.

All ballots shall be tallied at a central counting place and not at the precincts. Said
central counting place shall be at a County center as designated by the Registrar of
Voters.

The Contra Costa County Registrar of Voters is hereby authorized to canvass the
returns of said election.

The City Clerk of the City of Pleasant Hill shall receive the canvass as it pertains to the
election on the measure, and shall certify the results to the City Council, as required by
law.

SECTION 5. Primary Arguments and Impartial Analysis.

A.	Primary Arguments. The City Council authorizes (i) the City Council or any
member(s) of the City Council, (ii) any individual voter eligible to vote on the above
measure, (iii) a bona fide association of such citizens or (iv) any combination of voters
and associations, to file a written argument in favor of or against the City measure,
accompanied by the printed name(s) and signature(s) of the author(s) submitting it, in
accordance with Article 4, Chapter 3, Division 9 of the Elections Code of the State of
California, and to change the argument until and including the date fixed below by the
City Clerk, after which no arguments for or against the City measure may be submitted
to the City Clerk.

B.	The deadline to submit arguments for or against the City Measure pursuant to this
Resolution is declared by the City Clerk to be Monday, August 15, 2016, at 5:00 p.m.
Each argument shall not exceed 300 words and shall be filed with the City Clerk,
signed, and include the printed name(s) and signature(s) of the author(s) submitting it,
or if submitted on behalf of an organization, the name of the organization, and the
printed name and signature of at least one of its principal officers who is the author of
the argument.

C.	Pursuant to Section 9280 of the Elections Code, the City Council directs the City Clerk
to transmit a copy of the measure to the City Attorney. The City Attorney shall prepare
an impartial analysis of the measure, not to exceed 500 words in length, showing the

Page 4

E.

F.

G.

H.

I.

J.

effect of the measure on the existing law and the operation of the measure. The City
Attorney shall transmit such impartial analysis to the City Clerk, who shall cause the
analysis to be published in the ballot pamphlet along with the ballot measure as
provided by law. The Impartial Analysis shall be filed by the deadline set for filing of
primary arguments. The impartial analysis shall include a statement indicating whether
the measure was placed on the ballot by a petition signed by the requisite number of
voters or by the City Council. In the event the entire text of the measure is not printed
on the ballot, nor in the voter information portion of the sample ballot, there shall be
printed immediately below the impartial analysis, in no less than 10-font bold type, the
following: “The above statement is an impartial analysis of Ordinance or Measure

_____. If you desire a copy of the ordinance or measure, please call the election

official’s office at 925-671-5237 and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you.”

SECTION 6. Rebuttals.

A.	Pursuant to Section 9285 of the Elections Code of the State of California, when the
Clerk has selected the arguments for and against the Measure which will be printed and
distributed to the voters, the Clerk shall send copies of the argument in favor of the
Measure to the authors of the argument against, and copies of the argument against to
the authors of the argument in favor. The authors or persons designated by them may
prepare and submit rebuttal arguments not exceeding 250 words. The rebuttal
arguments shall be filed with the City Clerk not later than Wednesday, August 24,2016
at 5:00 p.m. Rebuttal arguments shall be printed in the same manner as the direct
arguments. Each rebuttal argument shall immediately follow the direct argument which
it seeks to rebut.

B.	That all previous resolutions providing for the filing of rebuttal arguments for City
measures are repealed.

C.	That the provisions herein shall apply only to the election to be held on November 8,
2016, and shall then be repealed.

SECTION 7. Placement on the Ballot. The full text of the Ballot Ordinance shall be
printed in the voter pamphlet, and a statement shall be printed in the ballot pursuant to Section
9223 of the Elections Code advising voters that they may obtain a copy of this Resolution, the
Ballot Ordinance and/or ballot measure, at no cost, upon request made to the City Clerk.

SECTION 8. Delivery of Resolution to County. The City Clerk shall certify to the
passage and adoption of this Resolution. The City Council directs the City Clerk to deliver copies
of this Resolution, including the Ballot Ordinance attached hereto as Exhibit “A”, to the Clerk of
the Board of Supervisors of Contra Costa County and to the Registrar of Voters of Contra Costa
County.

SECTION 9. CEOA. The City Council hereby finds and determines that the ballot
measure relates to organizational or administrative activities of governments that will not result in
direct or indirect physical changes in the environment, and therefore is not a project within the

meaning of the California Environmental Quality Act (“CEQA”) and the State CEQA Guidelines,
section 15378(b)(5).

SECTION 10. Severability. If any provision of this Resolution or the application thereof
to any person or circumstance is held invalid, such invalidity shall not affect other provisions or
applications of the Resolution which can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application, and to this end the provisions of this Resolution are severable. The City Council
hereby declares that it would have adopted this Resolution irrespective of the invalidity of any
particular portion thereof.

SECTION 11. Effective Date of Resolution. This Resolution shall take effect immediately
upon its adoption.

ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of Pleasant Hill, at a regular meeting held on the
1st day of August, 2016.

AYES

NOES

ABSENT

ABSTAIN

ATTEST:

SUSAN A. NOACK, Mayor

CAROL W. WU, City Clerk
APPROVED AS TO FORM:

JANET E. COLESON, City Attorney

EXHIBIT “A”

ORDINANCE NO.

AN ORDINANCE OF THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF PLEASANT HILL, CALIFORNIA
ADDING CHAPTER 5.27 TO THE PLEASANT HILL MUNICIPAL CODE TO ESTABLISH
A ONE-HALF PERCENT (1/2%) TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX FOR A PERIOD OF
TWENTY YEARS, SAID TAX TO BE ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE BOARD OF

EQUALIZATION

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF PLEASANT HILL DO HEREBY ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1. Chapter 5.27 is hereby added to Title 5 of the Pleasant Hill Municipal Code
(“Revenue and Finance”) and shall read as follows:

“5.27.010 TITLE. This chapter shall be known as the Pleasant Hill Transactions and Use Tax
Ordinance. The City of Pleasant Hill hereinafter shall be called "City." This chapter shall be
applicable in the incorporated territory of the City.

5.27.020. OPERATIVE DATE. "Operative Date" means the first day of the first calendar
quarter commencing more than 110 days after the effective date of this chapter, the effective date
being as set forth below.

5.27.030 PURPOSE. This chapter is adopted to achieve the following, among other
purposes, and directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish those
purposes:

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the provisions of
Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Cal. Revenue and Taxation Code
and § 7285.9 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 which authorizes the City to adopt this tax chapter which
shall be operative if a majority of the electors voting on the measure vote to approve the imposition
of the tax at an election called for that purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax chapter that incorporates provisions
identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California insofar as those
provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Cal. Revenue and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax chapter that imposes a tax and provides a
measure therefore that can be administered and collected by the State Board of Equalization in a
manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and requires the least possible deviation from,
the existing statutory and administrative procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization
in administering and collecting the California State Sales and Use Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax chapter that can be administered in a
manner that will be, to the greatest degree possible, consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Cal. Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting the transactions

and use taxes, and at the same time, minimize the burden of record keeping upon persons subject
to taxation under the provisions of this chapter.

5.27.040 CONTRACT WITH STATE. Prior to the operative date, the City shall contract
with the State Board of Equalization to perform all functions incident to the administration and
operation of this transactions and use tax chapter; provided, that if the City shall not have
contracted with the State Board of Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall nevertheless so
contract and in such a case the operative date shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter
following the execution of such a contract.

5.27.050 TRANSACTIONS TAX RATE. For the privilege of selling tangible personal
property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated territory of the City
at the rate of one-half percent (1/2%) of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all
tangible personal property sold at retail in said territory on and after the operative date of this
chapter.

5.27.060 PLACE OF SALE. For the purposes of this chapter, all retail sales are
consummated at the place of business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is
delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for
delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery
charges, when such charges are subject to the state sales and use tax, regardless of the place to
which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the State or
has more than one place of business, the place or places at which the retail sales are consummated
shall be determined under rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the State Board
of Equalization.

5.27.070 USE TAX RATE. An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other
consumption in the City of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on and after the
operative date of this chapter for storage, use or other consumption in said territory at the rate of
one-half percent (1/2%) of the sales price of the property. The sales price shall include delivery
charges when such charges are subject to state sales or use tax regardless of the place to which
delivery is made.

5.27.080 ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW. Except as otherwise provided
in this ordinance and except insofar as they are inconsistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Cal. Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing
with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Cal. Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and
made a part of this chapter as though fully set forth herein.

5.27.090 LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF STATE LAW AND COLLECTION OF USE
TAXES.

In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Cal. Revenue and Taxation Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the
name of this City shall be substituted therefor. However, the substitution shall not be made when:

2

1.	The word "State" is used as a part of the title of the State Controller, State
Treasurer, State Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or the Constitution of the State of
California;

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against this
City or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by or against the State Board of
Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the administration or operation of this
chapter.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sections referring to
the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the result of the substitution would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales, storage,
use or other consumption of tangible personal property which would not otherwise be exempt from
this tax while such sales, storage, use or other consumption remain subject to tax by the State under
the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Cal. Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other
consumption of tangible personal property which would not be subject to tax by the state under
the said provision of that code.

4.	In §§ 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711, 6715, 6737,
6797 or 6828 of the Cal. Revenue and Taxation Code.

B.	The word "City" shall be substituted for the word "State" in the phrase "retailer
engaged in business in this State" in § 6203 of the Cal. Revenue and Taxation Code and in the
definition of that phrase in § 6203.

5.27.100	PERMIT NOT REQUIRED. If a seller's permit has been issued to a retailer under

§ 6067 of the Cal. Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional transactor's permit shall not be
required by this chapter.

5.27.110 EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the use tax
the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or by any city, city and
county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Bums Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the
amount of any state-administered transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax the
gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum products,
to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the county in which the sale is
made and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or
property under the authority of the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the City which is shipped to a point
outside the City, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by the retailer or his

3

agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at such point. For the
purposes of this division (B)(2), delivery to a point outside the City shall be satisfied:

a.	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject to
registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with § 4000) of Division 3 of the Cal. Vehicle
Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with § 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and undocumented
vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with § 9840) of the Cal. Vehicle Code by
registration to an out-of-City address and by a declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the
buyer, stating that such address is, in fact, his or her principal place of residence; and

b.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of
business out-of-City and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, that the vehicle
will be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to furnish the

property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this
chapter.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such
property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the property for an amount
fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of this chapter.

5.	For the purposes of paragraphs (B)(3) and (4) of this section, the sale or
lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or
lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right
to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this chapter, the storage, use or
other consumption in this City of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subj ect to a transactions
tax under any state-administered transactions and use tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of aircraft and
used or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common
carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under a certificate of public convenience
and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign
government. This exemption is in addition to the exemptions provided in §§ 6366 and 6366.1 of
the Cal. Revenue and Taxation Code.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price
pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this chapter.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the tangible
personal property arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such property for any
period of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by a lease
prior to the operative date of this chapter.

4

5.	For the purposes of paragraphs (C)(3) and (4) of this section, storage, use,
or other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power over, tangible personal
property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time
for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or
lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in paragraph (C)(7), a retailer engaged in business in the
City shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible personal property, unless
the retailer ships or delivers the property into the City or participates within the City in making the
sale of the property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving the order, either directly
or indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer in the City or through any representative, agent,
canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the City under the authority of the retailer.

7.	"A retailer engaged in business in the City" shall also include any retailer
of any of the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with
§ 4000) of Division 3 of the Cal. Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with § 21411 of
the Cal. Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5
(commencing with § 9840) of the Cal. Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to collect use
tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the
City.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this chapter may credit against that tax any
transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district imposing, or retailer liable
for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Cal. Revenue and Taxation Code
with respect to the sale to the person of the property the storage, use or other consumption of which
is subject to the use tax.

5.27.120 ANNUAL AUDIT. By no later than December 31 of each year, the City shall cause
an independent auditor to complete a “Pleasant Hill Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance Report.”
Such report shall review whether the tax revenues collected pursuant to this ordinance are
collected, managed and expended in accordance with the requirements of this chapter.

5.27.130	AMENDMENTS.	All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this

chapter to Part 1 of Division 2 of the Cal. Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use
taxes and which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Cal. Revenue
and Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Cal. Revenue
and Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part of this chapter, provided however, that no
such amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this chapter.

5.27.140 ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN. No injunction or writ of
mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit, action or proceeding in any court
against the State or the City, or against any officer of the State or the City, to prevent or enjoin the
collection under this chapter, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Cal. Revenue and Taxation Code, of
any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.

5.27.150	SEVERABILITY.	If any provision of this chapter or the application thereof to

any person or circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of this chapter and the application of
such provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

5

5.27.160 OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE. The City Council shall establish the “City of
Pleasant Hill Transactions and Use Tax Oversight Committee”, which shall review the collection
and expenditure of funds generated by the tax established by this Chapter and shall make
recommendations to the City Council as appropriate. The number, qualifications and duties of
Committee members shall be established by ordinance or resolution of the City Council.

5.27.160. TERMINATION DATE. The authority to levy the tax imposed by this chapter
shall automatically expire on March 31, 2037, without further action by the City Council or the
voters of the City. After said date, the tax imposed by this Chapter can only be continued or
reestablished by a majority vote of Pleasant Hill voters pursuant to California Proposition 218.”

Section 2:	Pursuant to California Revenue and Taxation Code Section 7285.9, this

ordinance was approved for placement on the ballot by at least a two-third (2/3) supermajority of
all members of the City Council on August 1, 2016.

Section 3:	Once	the City Council certifies passage of this ordinance by the voters, the

City Clerk shall publish the same as required by applicable law, and forward a copy of the adopted
ordinance to the Board of Equalization.

Section 4:	If	any	provision	of	this	ordinance	or the application thereof to any person

or circumstances is held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, such
invalidity or unconstitutionality shall not affect any other provision or applications, and to this end
the provisions of this ordinance are declared to be severable. The City Council, and the electorate
by referendum, do hereby declare that they would have adopted this ordinance and each section,
subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, part or portion thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or
more sections, subsections, clauses, phrases, parts or portions thereof, be declared invalid or
unconstitutional.

Section 5:	Pursuant to Elections Code Section 9217, this ordinance shall be deemed

adopted and become effective only if approved by a majority of the eligible voters of the City of
Pleasant Hill voting thereon, at an election to be held on November 8, 2016, and shall take effect
ten (10) days after the City Council has certified the results of that election by resolution.

Section 6:	The	Mayor is hereby authorized to attest to the adoption of this ordinance

by signing where indicated below.

I hereby certify that the foregoing ordinance was PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED by the
people of the City of Pleasant Hill voting on the 8th day of November, 2016.

By:

Sue Noack, Mayor

ATTEST:

6

City Clerk