City of Davis Measure “B”

Ballot Question:

Shall Ordinance 2468 be adopted to amend, effective August 1, 2016, Article
15.05 of the Davis Municipal Code to increase the City of Davis’s Transient
Occupancy Tax, imposed on occupants of short-term rentals such as hotel
rooms, from 10% to 12%, and apply TOT to total rent paid by a guest for the
short-term rental, including online travel companies, which is anticipated to raise
$240,000 annually and will continue until repealed by City Council or city voters?

CITY OF DAVIS
CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE B

Measure B would (1) increase the City’s Transient Occupancy Tax (TOT) on short-term rentals
of 30 days or less, such as hotel rooms, from 10% to 12% as of August 1, 2016; and (2) clarify
that the TOT is calculated based upon the total rent paid by the guest, not on a discounted rate
that may be paid to a hotel operator by online travel companies or other third-party booking
agents. Measure B must be approved by a majority of the votes cast on the ballot proposition.

TOT is often called a hotel tax and is paid by “transients” for the privilege of renting hotel rooms
or other lodging in the City on a short-term basis of 30 days or less. The City’s TOT also applies
to short-term rentals rented through rental operators and third-party booking services, including,
online travel companies such as Expedia, Orbitz, Airbnb, Vacation Rental by Owner (VRBO),
etc. TOT is calculated as a percentage of the cost of the room or lodging.

If adopted, Measure B will adopt Ordinance 2468 and amend portions of Article 15.05 of the
Davis Municipal Code to increase the City’s TOT imposed on the rent paid for short-term rentals
from 10% of the rent paid to 12% and to apply the TOT to the total rent paid by the transient for
the short-term rental. The current TOT amount is 10% of the rent “charged by the operator.” To
clarify that the TOT should be based upon the total retail rent paid by the “transient” or guest
renting the space, Ordinance 2468 would base the TOT upon the total rent “paid by the
transient.” Measure B would also amend certain definitions in Article 15.05 of the Davis
Municipal Code to address online travel companies and other third-party bookings.

TOT is a general tax; the revenue raised from the tax goes into the City’s general fund and may
be used for any legal governmental purpose. The general fund pays for City services such as
police protection, fire services, street maintenance, parks and recreation services, and general
municipal services to the public. An increase in the TOT from 10% to 12% is estimated to
generate an additional $240,000 in tax revenue per year. If this measure does not pass, the TOT
will continue to be collected at its current rate of 10%.

Ordinance 2468 was approved for placement on the ballot as Measure B by the City Council of
the City of Davis on February 16, 2016. If adopted. Measure B will continue in effect until
repealed by the City Council or City voters.

/S/

Harriet A. Steiner
Davis City Attorney

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE B

The passage of Measure B will sustain our city's efforts to build a strong local economy
and provide vital public services throughout our community.

Measure B would raise our Transient Occupancy Tax (TOT) from 10% to 12% of the
cost of a hotel room. The TOT is a tax paid for by tourists and visitors who stay in our
hotels and motels; Davis residents do not pay this tax unless they stay in a local hotel.

Visitors use our roads, parks and emergency services as they enjoy all that Davis has to
offer; from the Farmers Market, to our parks, to restaurants, shops and galleries
throughout our vibrant downtown. Raising the TOT represents a direct and fair way to
recover the increased costs associated with visitor stays in Davis.

In Fiscal Year 2014-15, the TOT in Davis generated $1.3 million in revenue for the City.
A 2% increase in the TOT currently amounts to approximately $230,000 annually. With
the scheduled addition of new hotel rooms and a conference center in Davis, the annual
TOT income could reasonably be expected to increase in the coming years.

Also, a 2% TOT increase does not place Davis out of market for the region.

Measure B enjoys the support of our local hotel and tourist industry. The proposed
increase achieves an important balance between maintaining our competitiveness for
tourism dollars, while providing an opportunity to fund critical city activities.

The City Council has pledged that Measure B revenues will help fund critical
services.. .and because none of the money can be taken away by the State, all Measure B
revenue will stay here in Davis.

Please join us in voting YES on Measure B, and help our city build a stronger local
economy and protect important city services.

/S/

Dan Wolk, Mayor
Robb Davis, Mayor Pro Tempore
Brett Lee, City Councilmember
Lucas Frerichs, City Councilmember
Rochelle Swanson, City Councilmember

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR MEASURE B

The lodging opportunities here in Davis for lodgers are limited compared to many nearby cities.
So why vote to make the desire to rent a room in a lodging establishment more costly and less
attractive locally in such a limited lodging market as consumers would already be paying an
additional sales tax add on for the purchase of stay related goods but not lodging itself from the
passage of ballot measures in recent elections. Furthermore the cost of the lodging itself already
likely indirectly been raised by an inordinate number of eight additional parcel tax assessments
assessed on lodging properties as the result of the passage of other ballot measures in recent
elections. Lodging rentals should be more affordable locally for visitors as Davis is a venue for
many special events. Examples include: Picnic Day and Graduation Days on the adjacent U.C.
Davis Campus as such events that attract visitors to the city. So the argument made by the Davis
City Council is likely to be inaccurate that because other cities have a higher transient occupancy
tax rate of 12% that Davis should also follow suit should not be deemed a practical argument
because of the situation of an already uncommon high rate of overall taxation here in Davis.

Vote against poor economic policy. Vote NO on Measure B.

For more information about the campaign and/or to lend needed financial, vocal and other
assistance please log on to the following website address: http://www.noparceltaxes.org

/S/

Thomas Randall Jr., Davis Resident

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE B

Two (2) years ago the proponents of Measure O a ballot measure that raised the sales tax by 1/2
cent in Davis and passed, argued in their sample ballot argument the additional revenue collected
would be spent for infrastructure repair and improvement. The current situation indicates these
actions have been neglected. This proposed transient occupancy tax (TOT) increase's revenue
will go into the city's general fund and could be spent for a broad number of purposes instead of
earmarked to specifically fund infrastructure improvement and repair as was the case with
Measure O.

In addition to the transient occupancy tax, lodging establishments also collect additional sales
taxes levies with the passage of Proposition 30 in 2012 and Measure O in 2014 for some of the
additional services and items they sell. And also these establishments already pay for either
directly or indirectly for an inordinate number of eight (8) additional parcel tax assessments
levied on their parcels they occupy as a result of the outcome of recent local elections. A
combination of these additional expenses are passed on to consumers (lodgers) as higher room
rental fees.

Measure B has no specific expiration date in its ballot language and could remain an imposed tax
indefinitely if it passes and is not subjected to a fixed term for such a measure and the voter
accountability that a periodic election for voter renewal of the measure would provide.

Don't be mislead by the proponents arguments as the businesses and consumers of the City of
Davis already suffer from excessive taxation and misguided economic leadership.

Vote NO on Measure B on Tuesday, June 7th

For more information about the campaign and/or to lend needed financial, vocal and other
assistance please log on to the following website address: http://www.noparceltaxes.org

/S/

Thomas Randall Jr., Davis Resident

ORDINANCE NO. 2468

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF DAVIS AMENDING PORTIONS OF ARTICLE
15.05 OF THE DAVIS MUNICIPAL CODE TO INCREASE THE CITY’S TRANSIENT
OCCUPANCY TAX RATE FROM 10 PERCENT TO 12 PERCENT, ADDRESS ONLINE
TRAVEL COMPANY AND OTHER THIRD PARTY BOOKINGS, AND MAKE OTHER
CONFORMING CHANGES SUBJECT TO APPROVAL OF A MAJORITY OF THE
ELECTORS VOTING ON THE TAX MEASURE AT THE GENERAL MUNICIPAL
ELECTION TO BE HELD ON TUESDAY, JUNE 7, 2016

WHEREAS, pursuant to California Revenue and Taxation Code §§ 7280 et seq., the City of
Davis (“City”) has the authority to levy a transient occupancy tax (“TOT”) upon the privilege of
occupying a hotel, as defined in the Article 15.05 of the Davis Municipal Code, for a period of 30
days or less; and

WHEREAS, the TOT is a general tax the proceeds of which are deposited into the City’s general
fund. The general fund pays for essential City services such as police protection, fire and
paramedic services, street operations and maintenance, library services, parks and recreation
services and general municipal services to the public; and

WHEREAS, the City further desires to amend the Davis Municipal Code to allow for the
imposition and collection of the TOT on the full retail rent charged to a guest for hotel
occupancy, whether the occupancy is booked directly by the guest, through the guest’s employer
or agent, or through online travel companies that enable guests to purchase occupancy via the
Internet, or by similar electronic means;

WHEREAS, the City wishes to increase its TOT from the existing 10 percent to 12 percent,
subject to voter approval, for general purposes;

WHEREAS, the proposed TOT increase to 12% and other proposed TOT amendments will be
submitted to the voters at the general municipal election on June 7, 2016.

NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF DAVIS DOES HEREBY
ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. Code Amendment. Section 15.05.020 of the Davis Municipal Code is hereby
amended to read as follows:

15.05.010 Definitions. For the purpose of this article, the following words and
phrases shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:

Hotel. Any structure or any portion of any structure, which is occupied or
intended or designed for occupancy by transients for dwelling, lodging or
sleeping purposes, and includes any hotel, inn, tourist home or house,
motel, studio hotel, bachelor hotel, lodging house, rooming house,

Page 1 of 3

Ordinance No. 2468

apartment house, dormitory, public or private club, mobile home or house
trailer at a fixed location, or other similar structure or portion thereof.

Occupancy. The use or possession, or the right to the use or possession of
any room or portion thereof, in any hotel for dwelling, lodging or sleeping
purposes.

Operator. The person who is proprietor of the hotel, whether in the
capacity of owner, lessee, sublessee, mortgagee in possession, licensee or
any other capacity. Where the operator performs his or her functions
through a managing or booking agent of any type or character other than
an employee, including but not limited to an online travel company, the
managing/booking agent shall also be deemed an operator for the purposes
of this article and shall have the same duties and liabilities as his or her
principal. Compliance with the provisions of this article by either the
principal or the managing/booking agent shall, however, be considered to
be compliance by both.

Rent. The total consideration charged to the transient, (including but not
limited to, room rates, service charges, retail markup, commissions,
processing fees, cancellation charges, attrition fees or online booking
fees), whether or not received, for the occupancy of space in a hotel valued
in money, whether to be received in money, goods, labor or otherwise,
including all receipts, cash, credits and property and services of any kind
or nature, without any deduction therefrom whatsoever.

Transient. Any person who exercises occupancy or is entitled to
occupancy by reason of concession, permit, right of access, license or
other agreement for a period of thirty consecutive calendar days or less,
counting portions of calendar days as full days. Any such person so
occupying space in a hotel shall be deemed to be a transient until the
period of thirty days has expired unless there is an agreement in writing
between the operator and the occupant providing for a longer period of
occupancy.

Online Travel Company. Any person, whether operating for profit or not
for profit, which enables transients to purchase occupancy of space in a
hotel via the Internet, or by similar electronic means.

15.05.020. Levied - Amount of tax - Payment by transient. Effective on and
after August 1, 2016, for the privilege of occupancy in any hotel, each transient is
subject to and shall pay a tax in the amount of twelve percent (12%) of the rent
paid by the transient. Such tax constitutes a debt owed by the transient to the city,
which is extinguished only by payment to the operator or to the city. The transient
shall pay the tax to the operator at the time the rent is paid. If the rent is paid in

Ordinance No. 2468

installments, a proportionate share of the tax shall be paid with each installment.

The unpaid tax shall be due upon the transient’s ceasing to occupy space in the
hotel. If for any reason the tax due is not paid to the operator of the hotel, the
director of finance may require that such tax shall be paid directly to the director
of finance.

SECTION 2. Effective Date. This ordinance relates to the levying and collecting of the City
transient occupancy tax (“TOT”) and shall take effect only if approved by a majority of the voters
voting on the measure at the June 7, 2016 General Municipal Election and shall become effective
ten (10) days after the City Council declares and certifies by resolution the results of the election
and that the measure was approved by a majority of the voters voting thereon.

SECTION 3. Notice. The City Clerk is hereby directed to publish this ordinance at least once,
within fifteen (15) days of its adoption, in a newspaper of general circulation published and
circulated in the City of Davis.

PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of Davis this 16th day of February,
2016, by the following vote:

AYES:	Davis,	Frerichs,	Lee,	Swanson,	Wolk

NOES; None

Daniel M. Wolk
Mayor

ATTEST:

Page 3 of 3