Ballot question

The following question appeared on the ballot:[i]

Shall Ordinance No. 924-2016 amending portions of Chapter 3.12 of the
Fort Bragg Municipal Code to increase the City of Fort Bragg's existing
Transient Occupancy Tax (a bed tax paid when overnight visitors rent a
room) from ten percent (10%) to twelve percent (12%) to fund public
services and maintain public areas, effective April 1, 2017, which
proposed rate increase and amendment is anticipated to raise an
additional $400,000 per year in revenue and which will continue until
repealed by the City Council or the city voters, be adopted? [2]

Impartial analysis

The following impartial analysis of the measure was prepared by the office of the Fort

Bragg City Attorney:

The City of Fort Bragg City Council has placed Measure AA on the ballot.
The measure asks the voters whether the City should raise the current
Transient Occupancy Tax (“TOT”), also known as a bed tax, by two
percent (2%). Measure AA would also require City staff to issue an
itemized report detailing the expenditures made from the additional funds.
If approved by a majority of the voters, the increase would become
operative on April 1, 2017.

The City of Fort Bragg currently imposes a TOT at the rate often percent
(10%) of the rent paid by guests to occupy a room or space in a hotel or
other similar accommodation (“hotel”). This measure would increase the
TOT to twelve percent (12%). The TOT is not paid by a Fort Bragg
resident unless the resident stays at a hotel for less than thirty (30) days.

Measure AA is a general tax and may be used for any general
governmental purpose. All revenues would be placed in the City’s General
Fund. Measure AA requires the City’s Finance Director to keep account of
how the proceeds of the 2% of the TOT added by Measure AA are used
and to submit an itemized expenditure report to the City Council on an
annual basis.

In order for the City to adopt the amendments to its Municipal Code
described above, Measure AA must be approved by a majority of the
votes cast by the voters voting on the ballot proposition. A “yes” vote on
Measure AA will authorize the amendments to the City’s Municipal Code
described above. A “no” vote on Measure AA will prohibit the City from
adopting the amendments to its Municipal Code as described above.[2]

Fort Bragg City Attorneys