BILINGUAL - BILINGUE

PRESIDENTIAL GENERAL ELECTION

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 2016

Sample Ballot

& Voter Information Pamphlet

APPLICATION FOR VOTE-BY-MAIL BALLOT ON BACK COVER

★

★

★

★

★

★

★

★

★

The information included in this pamphlet is in both English and Spanish

POLLS OPEN AT 7 A.M. AND CLOSE AT 8 PM.

FIND YOUR POLLING PLACE:

ON THE BACK COVER OF THIS PAMPHLET OR ON THE WEB AT: WWW.SJCROV.ORG

AUSTIN G. ERDMAN, REGISTRAR OF VOTERS

ELECCION GENERAL PRESIDENCIAL

MARTES, 8 DE NOVIEMBRE DE 2016

Muestra de Boleta

y Folleto de Informacion para el Elector

SOLICITUD PARA BOLETA DE VOTO-POR-CORREO EN LA CUBIERTA POSTERIOR
La informacion incluida en este folleto se encuentra en Ingles y en Espariol

LOS CENTROS DE VOTACION ABREN A LAS 7 A.M. Y CIERRAN A LAS 8 P.M.

LOCALICE SU CENTRO DE VOTACION:

EN LA CUBIERTA POSTERIOR DE ESTE FOLLETO 6 EN EL SITIO WEB: WWW.SJCROV.ORG

AUSTIN G. ERDMAN, REGISTRADOR DE VOTANTES

COUNTY OF SAN JOAQUIN

REGISTRAR OF VOTERS OFFICE

44 NORTH SAN JOAQUIN ST., SUITE 350
P.O. BOX 810
STOCKTON, CA 95201

AUSTIN G. ERDMAN
REGISTRAR OF VOTERS
aerdman@sjgov.org

PHONE (209) 468-2890
FAX (209) 468-2889
www.sjcrov.org

Dear San Joaquin County Voter,

You have the opportunity to exercise one of your most fundamental rights as a citizen of the United States of America -
your right to vote! As a registered voter in San Joaquin County, you can exercise your right to vote in the upcoming
Presidential General Election on November 8, 2016.

This sample ballot booklet is intended to provide you with relevant election information to help you make informed choices,
and assist you in completing your ballot - please read it carefully. You can make notes in this booklet and use it when
filling out your official ballot.

RETURNING YOUR BALLOT

This November, your ballot is comprised of two ballot cards. If you are returning your ballot by mail using a

YELLOW COURTESY REPLY ENVELOPE, YOU WILL NEED ADDITIONAL POSTAGE IN ORDER TO RETURN YOUR BALLOT. THE REPLY
ENVELOPE WILL REQUIRE A MINIMUM POSTAGE OF $.68, DUE TO THE ADDED WEIGHT OF THE ENVELOPE AND TWO BALLOT CARDS.
IF YOU HAVE BEEN GIVEN A BLUE BUSINESS REPLY ENVELOPE, THEN YOU WERE NOT ASSIGNED A POLLING PLACE, AND NO POSTAGE
IS REQUIRED.

If you are not already a permanent vote-by-mail voter, and would like to vote by mail, please call the Registrar of Voters
office at (209) 468-2890, apply online, or fill out the postcard on the back of this booklet and drop it in the mail.

When you have voted your ballot, please sign the return envelope, apply the appropriate postage, and mail your ballot
back to our office. You can also drop off your completed ballot, in the signed envelope, at any polling place in the County,
or at the Registrar of Voters office before 8:00 p.m. on Election Day, November 8, 2016.

Sign your envelope! By law, we cannot open an unsigned envelope and will not be able to count the ballot inside. If you
should forget to sign your envelope, the law also allows an eight (8) day grace period to sign the envelope at the Registrar
of Voters office (2015 AB477). Additionally, a letter will be mailed to you to inform you of the need to provide your
signature on the envelope for your ballot to be counted. Please, immediately open all correspondence from the Registrar
of Voters office and follow the instructions provided in that letter.

Another regulation, Assembly Bill 29, which became effective on January 1, 2015, allows three (3) additional days after
Election Day for the Registrar to receive your Vote-by-Mail ballot. However, your ballot return envelope must be
postmarked no later than Election Day, November 8, 2016.

TOP-TWO OPEN PRIMARY ACT (PROPOSITION 141

On June 8, 2010, California voters approved Proposition 14, which requires that the two candidates for Congressional
or State elective offices, who receive the highest and second-highest number of votes cast at the Primary Election, shall
appear on the General Election ballot (EC 8141.5). No other candidates may appear on the General Election ballot.
Therefore, there are no write-in positions on the ballot for these races.

MILITARY AND OVERSEAS VOTER BALLOTS AVAILABLE ONLINE

If you are a member of the military or are overseas, you can now download your ballot from the San Joaquin County
Registrar of Voters website at www.sicrov.ora. Print and mark your ballot, and either fax or mail the voted ballot to the
San Joaquin County Registrar of Voters Office. Please remember, while AB29 allows three additional days for the
Registrar to receive military and overseas mailed ballots, they must be postmarked bv November 8. 2016. for the General
Election to be counted. For more information, please call 209-468-2890, visit our office at 44 N. San Joaquin St., Suite 350,
or go to our website at www.sjcrov.org.

Thank you for exercising your right to vote. Every eligible vote is counted - and every vote counts!

Austin G. Erdman
Registrar of Voters

REGISTRATION (209) 468-2890 - BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (209) 468-8942
CANDIDATES FILING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES (209) 468-8945 - PRECINCT OPERATIONS (209) 468-2892

VOTING INSTRUCTIONS

FOR VOTE-BY-MAIL/MAIL BALLOT
VOTERS

USE A DARK PEN

Fill in the oval completely to the left of the
candidate’s name of your choice. For
measures, fill in the oval to the left of “YES” or
“NO”.

Correct	Incorrect	Incorrect
•	<35	OD

IF YOU MAKE A MISTAKE

If you make a mistake on your ballot, you must
clearly cross out the whole line of your
unintended choice, following this example:

^ Unintended Choice
Do not write your name, initials or make any
identifying marks on your ballot.

RETURNING YOUR BALLOT

Place ALL of your ballot cards in the return yellow
or blue envelope provided. Remember to SIGN
your return envelope.

Any voter may apply for permanent Vote-
by-Mail voter status. To qualify you must:

•	Be a registered voter in San Joaquin
County and live in the district holding the
election.

Voters may apply for a Vote-by-Mail ballot in
one of the following ways:

•	By mail, fax or internet - You can use the
application form located on the back cover
of this pamphlet which can be mailed or
faxed, or you may use our secure internet
application by going to www.sicrov.org. All
applications must be received at the
Registrar of Voters Office no later than 5:00
pm, Tuesday, November 1, 2016. Our FAX
number is (209) 468-9534.

•	In Person or by phone - The Registrar of
Voters Office is located at 44 N. San
Joaquin Street, Suite 350, Stockton, CA.
Phone (209) 468-2890. Office hours are
weekdays, 8:00 am - 5:00 pm, and on
Election Day from 7:00 am until 8:00 pm.

If you have any questions concerning Vote-by-
Mail voting, call (209) 468-2890, FAX (209)
468-9534, or go to www.sicrov.org.

HOW TO RETURN YOUR
VOTE-BY-MAIL BALLOT

Once your return envelope is signed and your ballot
enclosed, it may be returned to the Registrar of Voters
Office in three ways:

By Mail - must be post stamped no later than the date of
the Election and delivered to the Registrar of Voters Office
no later than 3 business days after the day of election.

In Person - to our office located at 44 N. San Joaquin
Street, Suite 350, Stockton, CA 95202. There is a 24/7
drop box located in the front of the building for your
convenience.

Polling Place drop off - You may drop your ballot off at
any polling place in San Joaquin County on Election Day.
Please call (209) 468-2890 for more information.

VOTING AT THE POLLS

BE PREPARED

Make sure you have your sample ballot and voter’s guide
and know your choices for each contest.

FILL IN THE OVAL

Fill in the oval to the left of your selection in each contest.
Fill in the oval completely.

WRITE-INS

To vote for a qualified write-in candidate, write in the
person’s name on the blank line provided and fill in the oval
to the left of the write-in line. A list of Qualified Write-in
Candidates will be available 14 days before Election Day on
our website at: www.sicrov.org. Do not write vour name,
initials, or make any identifying marks on vour ballot.

BE AWARE OF THE OVER-VOTE

Each contest shows the number of candidates to be
elected. Check this number before marking your choices.
To ensure your vote counts, do not vote for more
candidates than allowed for each contest.

MEASURES

Vote only YES or NO. If you mark both, your vote will not
count.

IF YOU MAKE A MISTAKE

Do not correct an error on your ballot. Simply take your
ballot to a precinct officer and request a replacement ballot.
The precinct officer can provide you, as needed, with up to
three replacement ballots.

TO CAST YOUR BALLOT

Place ALL of your ballot cards in the secured ballot box.
Once your ballot is placed in the ballot box, you cannot
receive a replacement ballot.

Questions about voting your ballot?

Ask your precinct officer or contact the
Registrar of Voters Office at: (209) 468-2890

SJ 024-001

★ ^ ★

MILITARY and OVERSEAS VOTERS

Can Now Access Their Ballot on the Web

Simply submit a Federal Post Card Application (FPCA) available at
www.FVAP.gov or any embassy or consulate and indicate you want to receive
your ballot online (Box 6).

Any U.S. citizen who is a member of the Uniformed Services, or
Merchant Marines (on active duty) and their eligible dependents
or U.S. citizens residing outside the United States may request
to receive their ballot online.

Your ballot at your fingertips anywhere in the world!

INSTRUCTIONS FOR VOTERS WITH DISABILITIES AT THE POLLING PLACE

Disabled voters who wish to use the touchscreen voting machine at
the precinct will be issued a voter card after signing the roster. To
receive comprehensive instructions on the use of the touchscreen
machine and begin the voting process, follow these simple
instructions:

Insert the voter access card into the slot at the upper right side of the
screen, pushing the card firmly until it clicks.

The next screen allows you to adjust the magnification and contrast of
the screen to increase readability.

Listen carefully to the instructions on how to vote your ballot using the keypad and
audio interface or using the touchscreen interface.

YOU MAY ASK A POLL WORKER FOR ASSISTANCE IF NEEDED

USEFUL INFORMATION

Please select the sample of your party ballot from the following pages.

To view your ballot in larger text, visit our website: www.sicrov.org

UOCAVA

SJ 024-002

HELP AMERICA VOTE ACT

(HAVA)

There are federal voter registration rules that may affect you.

Federal law requires that everyone who registers or re-registers to vote must
provide a California Driver’s License or California State Identification number
on their voter registration form. If you have never been issued a driver’s
license or I.D. card in California, you must provide the last four digits of your
Social Security Number on the registration form.

All voter registrations are sent to the Secretary of State’s office for verification
of each voter’s information. Failure to provide this identification number
automatically places your registration into a non-registered status. Your name
will not be listed on the roster at your polling place.

If your registration form is missing this information, you will be notified by mail
or by telephone with a request to provide the missing information. Once the
corrected information is received, the registration card will be resubmitted to
the Secretary of State’s office for verification.

If you have any questions about the status of your registration, you can visit
the Registrar of Voter’s Office website at www.sicrov.ora and follow the links
to our new voter lookup feature. You can also call our office at (209) 468-
2890.

REMEMBER

• Your ballot consists of two cards:

>	Make sure to vote both sides of each card of
your ballot.

>	Return both cards of your voted ballot even if
you choose not to vote on a certain card.

SAMPLE

BALLOT

HAVA

SJ 024-003

OFFICIAL BALLOT

SAN JOAQUIN COUNTY, CALIFORNIA
PRESIDENTIAL GENERAL ELECTION
NOVEMBER 8, 2016

INSTRUCTIONS TO VOTERS:

1.	To vote, you must completely darken the oval next to your choice of candidate or measure. Do NOT write the name of the
candidate if it already appears on the ballot.

2.	If you mark the wrong oval, regardless of the shape or size of your mark, exchange your ballot for a new one if you are at the polling
location. However, if you are voting by mail, you must clearly draw a line crossing out your unintended choice.

in tended Choice—

If you spoil or damage your ballot, call our office for a replacement.

All distinguishing marks such as voter’s name, initials, signature, SSN, etc. are forbidden on the actual ballot.

To vote for a qualified person whose name is not on the ballot and who has filed as a write-in candidate, completely darken the
oval next to the write-in line, AND write in the qualified name for that race.

VOTE LIKE THIS:

Party-Nominated Offices

The party label accompanying the name of a candidate for party-
nominated office on the general election ballot means that the
candidate is the official nominee of the party shown.

PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES

PRESIDENT AND VICE PRESIDENT
Vote for One Party

O DONALD J. TRUMP

MICHAEL R. PENCE

OGARY JOHNSON

BILL WELD

O JILL STEIN

AJAMU BARAKA

O HILLARY CLINTON

TIM KAINE

o GLORIA estela la riva

DENNIS J. BANKS

o-------------------------------

REP, Al

LIB

GRN

DEM

PF

Voter-Nominated and Nonpartisan Offices

All voters, regardless of the party preference they disclosed upon
registration, or refusal to disclose a party preference, may vote for any
candidate for a voter-nominated or nonpartisan office. The party
preference, if any, designated by a candidate for a voter-nominated
office is selected by the candidate and is shown for the information of
the voters only. It does not imply that the candidate is nominated or
endorsed by the party or that the party approves of the candidate. The
party preference, if any, of a candidate for a nonpartisan office does not
appear on the ballot.

UNITED STATES SENATOR

UNITED STATES SENATOR
Vote for One

j LORETTA L. SANCHEZ

^—' United States Congresswoman

O

KAMALA D. HARRIS

Attorney General of California

Party Preference: DEM
Party Preference: DEM

UNITED STATES REPRESENTATIVE

UNITED STATES REPRESENTATIVE
CONGRESSIONAL DISTRICT 9

Vote for One

ANTONIO C. "TONY" AMADOR	Party	Preference	REP

'—' Retired U.S. Marshal

) JERRY MCNERNEY	Party	Preference	DEM

^— Congressman_________________________________________________________________

STATE SENATOR

STATE SENATOR
5TH DISTRICT

Vote for One

O

CATHLEEN GALGIANI

Legislator/Delta Commissioner

) ALAN NAKANISHI

^' Physician/Businessman_____

Party Preference: DEM
Party Preference: REP

MEMBER OF THE STATE ASSEMBLY

O

O

STATE ASSEMBLY MEMBER
9TH DISTRICT

Vote for One

JIM COOPER	Party Preference:	DEM

Assemblymember

TIM GORSULOWSKY	Party Preference:	REP

Business Security Consultant___________________

SCHOOL

O

o

o

o

SAN JOAQUIN DELTA
COMMUNITY COLLEGE DISTRICT
GOVERNING BOARD MEMBER
TRUSTEE AREA NO. 1
Vote for One

C. JENNET STEBBINS

Delta College Trustee

ROBERT L. DURAN

College Student

LEJAMES DILLION-MELTON

Caregiver/SJDC Employee

SAN JOAQUIN DELTA
COMMUNITY COLLEGE DISTRICT
GOVERNING BOARD MEMBER
TRUSTEE AREA NO. 2
Vote for One

CARLOS A. HUERTA

Educator

O

q CLAUDIA Y. MORENO-RABAGO

Incumbent

O-

O

o

o

SAN JOAQUIN DELTA
COMMUNITY COLLEGE DISTRICT
GOVERNING BOARD MEMBER
TRUSTEE AREA NO. 6
Vote for One

JUAN ENSASTEGUI LOPEZ

Realtor/Tax Preparer

TERESA R. BROWN

Incumbent

CARD 1 OF 2 - VOTE BOTH SIDES

SAMPLE BALLOT

MEASURES SUBMITTED
TO THE VOTERS

_________________________STATE_____________________

PROPOSITION 51. SCHOOL BONDS. FUNDING FOR K-12
SCHOOL AND COMMUNITY COLLEGE FACILITIES. INITIATIVE
STATUTE. Authorizes $9 billion in general obligation bonds for new
construction and modernization of K-12 public school facilities; charter
schools and vocational education facilities; and California Community
Colleges facilities. Fiscal Impact: State costs of about $17.6 billion to
pay off both the principal ($9 billion) and interest ($8.6 billion) on the
bonds. Payments of about $500 million per year for 35 years.

oYES__________________________o^°_________________

PROPOSITION 52. MEDI-CAL HOSPITAL FEE PROGRAM.
INITIATIVE CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT AND STATUTE.

Extends indefinitely an existing statute that imposes fees on hospitals
to fund Medi-Cal health care services, care for uninsured patients, and
children’s health coverage. Fiscal Impact: Uncertain fiscal effect,
ranging from relatively little impact to annual state General Fund
savings of around $1 billion and increased funding for public hospitals
in the low hundreds of millions of dollars annually.

o YES	oN0

PROPOSITION 53. REVENUE BONDS. STATEWIDE VOTER
APPROVAL. INITIATIVE CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT.

Requires statewide voter approval before any revenue bonds can be
issued or sold by the state for certain projects if the bond amount
exceeds $2 billion. Fiscal Impact: State and local fiscal effects are
unknown and would depend on which projects are affected by the
measure and what actions government agencies and voters take in
response to the measure’s voting requirement.

oYES______________________________________

PROPOSITION 54. LEGISLATURE. LEGISLATION AND
PROCEEDINGS. INITIATIVE CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT
AND STATUTE. Prohibits Legislature from passing any bill unless
published on Internet for 72 hours before vote. Requires Legislature to
record its proceedings and post on Internet. Authorizes use of
recordings. Fiscal Impact: One-time costs of $1 million to $2 million
and ongoing costs of about $1 million annually to record legislative
meetings and make videos of those meetings available on the Internet.

oYES

oN0

CARD 1 OF 2 - VOTE BOTH SIDES

SJ 024-005

OFFICIAL BALLOT

SAN JOAQUIN COUNTY, CALIFORNIA
PRESIDENTIAL GENERAL ELECTION
NOVEMBER 8, 2016

STATE

PROPOSITION 55.TAX EXTENSION TO FUND EDUCATION AND
HEALTHCARE. INITIATIVE CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT.

Extends by twelve years the temporary personal income tax increases
enacted in 2012 on earnings over $250,000, with revenues allocated to
K-12 schools, California Community Colleges, and, in certain years,
healthcare. Fiscal Impact: Increased state revenues-$4 billion to $9
billion annually from 2019-2030-depending on economy and stock
market. Increased funding for schools, community colleges, health
care for low-income people, budget reserves, and debt payments.

o

YES

o

NO

PROPOSITION 56. CIGARETTE TAX TO FUND HEALTHCARE,
TOBACCO USE PREVENTION, RESEARCH, AND LAW
ENFORCEMENT. INITIATIVE CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT
AND STATUTE. Increases cigarette tax by $2.00 per pack, with
equivalent increase on other tobacco products and electronic
cigarettes containing nicotine. Fiscal Impact: Additional net state
revenue of $1 billion to $1.4 billion in 2017-18, with potentially lower
revenues in future years. Revenues would be used primarily to
augment spending on health care for low-income Californians.

o

YES

o

NO

PROPOSITION 57. CRIMINAL SENTENCES. PAROLE. JUVENILE
CRIMINAL PROCEEDINGS AND SENTENCING. INITIATIVE
CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT AND STATUTE. Allows parole
consideration for nonviolent felons. Authorizes sentence credits for
rehabilitation, good behavior, and education. Provides juvenile court
judge decides whether juvenile will be prosecuted as adult. Fiscal
Impact: Net state savings likely in the tens of millions of dollars
annually, depending on implementation. Net county costs of likely a
few million dollars annually.

o

YES

o

NO

PROPOSITION 58. ENGLISH PROFICIENCY. MULTILINGUAL
EDUCATION. INITIATIVE STATUTE. Preserves requirement that
public schools ensure students obtain English language proficiency.
Requires school districts to solicit parent/community input in
developing language acquisition programs. Requires instruction to
ensure English acquisition as rapidly and effectively as possible.
Authorizes school districts to establish dual-language immersion
programs for both native and non-native English speakers. Fiscal
Impact: No notable fiscal effect on school districts or state
government.

o

YES

o

NO

PROPOSITION 59. CORPORATIONS. POLITICAL SPENDING.
FEDERAL CONSTITUTIONAL PROTECTIONS. LEGISLATIVE
ADVISORY QUESTION. Asks whether California’s elected officials
should use their authority to propose and ratify an amendment to the
federal Constitution overturning the United States Supreme Court
decision in Citizens United v. Federal Election Commission. Citizens
United ruled that laws placing certain limits on political spending by
corporations and unions are unconstitutional. Fiscal Impact: No direct
fiscal effect on state or local governments.

Shall California’s elected officials use all of their constitutional
authority, including, but not limited to, proposing and ratifying one or
more amendments to the United States Constitution, to overturn
Citizens United v. Federal Election Commission (2010) 558 U.S. 310,
and other applicable judicial precedents, to allow the full regulation or
limitation of campaign contributions and spending, to ensure that all
citizens, regardless of wealth, may express their views to one another,
and to make clear that corporations should not have the same
constitutional rights as human beings?

o

YES

o

NO

PROPOSITION 60. ADULT FILMS. CONDOMS. HEALTH
REQUIREMENTS. INITIATIVE STATUTE. Requires adult film
performers to use condoms during filming of sexual intercourse.
Requires producers to pay for performer vaccinations, testing, and
medical examinations. Requires producers to post condom
requirement at film sites. Fiscal Impact: Likely reduction of state and
local tax revenues of several million dollars annually. Increased state
spending that could exceed $1 million annually on regulation, partially
offset by new fees.

o

YES

o

NO

PROPOSITION 61. STATE PRESCRIPTION DRUG PURCHASES.
PRICING STANDARDS. INITIATIVE STATUTE. Prohibits state from
buying any prescription drug from a drug manufacturer at price over
lowest price paid for the drug by United States Department of Veterans
Affairs. Exempts managed care programs funded through Medi-Cal.
Fiscal Impact: Potential for state savings of an unknown amount
depending on (1) how the measure’s implementation challenges are
addressed and (2) the responses of drug manufacturers regarding the
provision and pricing of their drugs.

o

YES

o

NO

PROPOSITION 62. DEATH PENALTY. INITIATIVE STATUTE.

Repeals death penalty and replaces it with life imprisonment without
possibility of parole. Applies retroactively to existing death sentences.
Increases the portion of life inmates’ wages that may be applied to
victim restitution. Fiscal Impact: Net ongoing reduction in state and
county criminal justice costs of around $150 million annually within a
few years, although the impact could vary by tens of millions of dollars
depending on various factors.

o

YES

o

NO

PROPOSITION 63. FIREARMS. AMMUNITION SALES. INITIATIVE
STATUTE. Requires background check and Department of Justice
authorization to purchase ammunition. Prohibits possession of large-
capacity ammunition magazines. Establishes procedures for enforcing
laws prohibiting firearm possession by specified persons. Requires
Department of Justice’s participation in federal National Instant
Criminal Background Check System. Fiscal Impact: Increased state
and local court and law enforcement costs, potentially in the tens of
millions of dollars annually, related to a new court process for removing
firearms from prohibited persons after they are convicted.

o

YES

o

NO

CARD 2 OF 2 - VOTE BOTH SIDES

PROPOSITION 64. MARIJUANA LEGALIZATION. INITIATIVE
STATUTE. Legalizes marijuana under state law, for use by adults 21
or older. Imposes state taxes on sales and cultivation. Provides for
industry licensing and establishes standards for marijuana products.
Allows local regulation and taxation. Fiscal Impact: Additional tax
revenues ranging from high hundreds of millions of dollars to over $1
billion annually, mostly dedicated to specific purposes. Reduced
criminal justice costs of tens of millions of dollars annually.

o

YES

o

NO

PROPOSITION 65. CARRYOUT BAGS. CHARGES. INITIATIVE
STATUTE. Redirects money collected by grocery and certain other
retail stores through mandated sale of carryout bags. Requires stores
to deposit bag sale proceeds into a special fund to support specified
environmental projects. Fiscal Impact: Potential state revenue of
several tens of millions of dollars annually under certain
circumstances, with the monies used to support certain environmental
programs.

o

YES

o

NO

PROPOSITION 66. DEATH PENALTY. PROCEDURES. INITIATIVE
STATUTE. Changes procedures governing state court challenges to
death sentences. Designates superior court for initial petitions and
limits successive petitions. Requires appointed attorneys who take
noncapital appeals to accept death penalty appeals. Exempts prison
officials from existing regulation process for developing execution
methods. Fiscal Impact: Unknown ongoing impact on state court
costs for processing legal challenges to death sentences. Potential
prison savings in the tens of millions of dollars annually.

o

YES

o

NO

PROPOSITION 67. BAN ON SINGLE-USE PLASTIC BAGS.
REFERENDUM. A “Yes” vote approves, and a “No” vote rejects, a
statute that prohibits grocery and other stores from providing
customers single-use plastic or paper carryout bags but permits sale of
recycled paper bags and reusable bags. Fiscal Impact: Relatively
small fiscal effects on state and local governments, including a minor
increase in state administrative costs and possible minor local
government savings from reduced litter and waste management costs.

o

YES

o

NO

SCHOOL

MEASURE U

Local School Repair/Student Safety Measure. To repair and upgrade
aging classrooms in local schools to prepare students for college and
careers, retain/attract quality teachers and improve student
health/safety by removing mold/asbestos/lead paint, repairing leaky
roofs, updating classrooms and acquiring/constructing/modernizing
sites/facilities/equipment, shall Lodi Unified School District issue
$281,000,000 of bonds at legal interest rates, with citizens’ oversight,
annual audits, no money for administrators’ salaries/pensions and all
funds staying local?

o

BONDS YES

o

BONDS NO

CITY

MEASURE R

Shall the City of Lodi replace outdated playgrounds, repair eroded
riverbank at Lodi Lake, repair and expand park trail systems, replace
park restrooms and drinking fountains, and improve park parking lots,
roadways, landscaping, and infrastructure, by enacting a one-eighth
cent per dollar (0.125%) transactions and use (“sales”) tax, estimated
to raise $1,400,000 annually, to sunset in fifteen (15) years, with all
revenue exclusively applied to these specific purposes, subject to
citizen oversight and annual audit?

o

YES

o

NO

MEASURE S

Shall the City of Lodi fight crime and expand programs to reduce gang
violence by hiring additional police and a gang intervention worker,
restore downtown Fire Engine 1 service, and increase training, by
enacting a one-quarter cent per dollar (0.25%) transactions and use
(“sales”) tax, estimated to raise $2,800,000 annually, 64% to police,
36% to fire, sunset in 15 years, all revenue exclusively applied to these
specific purposes, subject to citizen oversight and annual audit?

o

YES

o

NO

CARD 2 OF 2 - VOTE BOTH SIDES

ENDORSE

Party Endorsement for Voter-Nominated Offices

Pursuant to Election Code § 13302(b) any qualified political party may submit to the county elections official a
list of all candidates for voter-nominated offices who will appear on any ballot in the county, and who have been
endorsed by the party.

Democratic Party
of California

Republican Party
of San Joaquin County

Republican Party
of California

UNITED STATES SENATOR

KAMALA D. HARRIS

None

None

UNITED STATES
REPRESENTATIVE
CONGRESSIONAL DISTRICT 9

UNITED STATES
REPRESENTATIVE
CONGRESSIONAL DISTRICT 10

JERRY MCNERNEY

ANTONIO C. “TONY” AMADOR

ANTONIO C. “TONY” AMADOR

MICHAEL EGGMAN

JEFF DENHAM

JEFF DENHAM

STATE SENATOR
5TH DISTRICT

CATHLEEN GALGIANI

ALAN NAKANISHI

ALAN NAKANISHI

MEMBER OF THE STATE

ASSEMBLY

9TH DISTRICT

MEMBER OF THE
STATE ASSEMBLY
12TH DISTRICT

MEMBER OF THE
STATE ASSEMBLY
13TH DISTRICT

JIM COOPER

TIM GORSULOWSKY

TIM GORSULOWSKY

None

KEN VOGEL

KEN VOGEL

SUSAN TALAMANTES
EGGMAN

None

None

SJ 024-008

STATE LEGISLATIVE CANDIDATES WHO HAVE
ACCEPTED VOLUNTARY SPENDING LIMITS

Pursuant to the California Government Code Section 85600, the following State
Legislative Candidates have accepted voluntary expenditure limits and are eligible to
submit a candidate’s statement, printed exactly as submitted, and at their own expense
in the Voter Information Pamphlet:

STATE ASSEMBLY. DISTRICT 9

JIM COOPER - Democrat
TIM GORSULOWSKY - Republican

STATE ASSEMBLY. DISTRICT 12

KEN VOGEL - Republican
HEATH FLORA - Republican

STATE ASSEMBLY. DISTRICT 13

KEVIN J. LINCOLN, II - Republican
SUSAN TALAMANTES EGGMAN - Democrat

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

The following pages contain voter information applicable to your ballot
which may include any/all of the following items:

•	Candidate’s Statements

•	Ballot Measures

•	Impartial Analyses

•	Tax Rate Statement(s)

•	Arguments, Pro & Con

•	Text of Measure(s)

This pamphlet may not contain a complete list of candidates. A complete list of candidates appears
on the Sample Ballot. Each candidate’s statement in this pamphlet is volunteered by the candidate
and is printed at the expense of the candidate unless otherwise determined by the governing body.

(EC §13312)(a)(b)

PLEASE REFER TO THE STATE VOTER INFORMATION GUIDE
FOR INFORMATION ON STATE CANDIDATES.

EACH CANDIDATE’S STATEMENT OF QUALIFICATIONS
IS PRINTED EXACTLY AS SUBMITTED BY THE CANDIDATE.

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

(EC §9315)

SPEND

SJ 024-009

ANTONIO C. “TONY” AMADOR
Occupation: United States Marshal - Retired

My education and qualifications are: Government is out of
touch, and indifferent to the interests of the average person. The
incumbent appears more interested in protecting his own power
than doing what’s right for Americans. “Special interests’ have
rigged the political system for themselves. The corporate elites
want cheap labor that ships American jobs overseas and exploits
low-paid immigrant workers at home. I oppose trade deals that
give our local jobs away.

Since the incumbent has been in office, San Joaquin County and
the city of Stockton, have experienced one of the state’s highest
un-employment rates. Crime has skyrocketed, farms are going
without water, and taxes and debt are the highest in the country.
The causes are faulty policies supported by a do nothing
congressman.

Another example of his ineffectiveness is failure to take care of
our veterans. Veterans in the 9th Congressional District deserve
an effective representative who can get things done. My years of
government experience at the local, state and federal levels make
my candidacy work for everyone. As a former United States’
Marshal, I understand the meaning of making tough decisions. I
will fight for a workable immigration plan that won’t include blanket
amnesty.

I oppose the ‘twin tunnel’ and ‘high-speed rail’ projects. They
waste taxpayer money. The incumbent takes both sides on these
issues. The Central Valley needs a leader that will fix our long
term water needs and economic malaise. There is no hope
without change. Vote for Amador. Vote for change

STATEMENT OF CANDIDATE FOR
U. S. REPRESENTATIVE IN CONGRESS, DISTRICT 9

JERRY MCNERNEY
Occupation: Congressman

My education and qualifications are: My top priority is fighting
for our community.

As a former small business owner with three children, I know the
challenges that come with providing for a family. We need good-
paying jobs to get people back to work. This is why I’ve introduced
bills to expand small businesses and close loopholes that allow
corporations to ship jobs overseas.

I’m a fierce protector of the Delta and the farmers, businesses,
and families that rely on it. I’ve fought against the proposed
tunnels plan that would damage our region and I've offered
solutions to lead us to a sustainable water future.

My inspiration to serve in Congress comes from my son Michael’s
military service after 9/11.1 am determined to ensure our veterans
have access to the benefits they've earned. I’m proud that my
efforts will result in a new VA medical clinic in San Joaquin County
which will create local jobs throughout our region. I also wrote a
law that improves care for veterans suffering from traumatic brain
injuries.

Our community is stronger when families live in safe
neighborhoods. I’ve secured money for our local police
departments to hire officers, and supported job training and
education programs to help keep our young people off the streets.

I’m seeking re-election to get things done. I have delivered results
that strengthen middle class families, keep our nation safe,
protect seniors and Medicare, and ensure a clean environment for
future generations, and I ask for your support to continue working
for you.

39-1

SJ 024-010

STATEMENT OF CANDIDATE FOR MEMBER OF THE STATE ASSEMBLY, DISTRICT 9  TIM GORSULOWSKY Occupation: Business Owner  My education and qualifications are: My number one priority, as your Assemblyman, will be to stand up to the Sacramento politicians and self-serving special interests who have ignored us.  As an independent small businessman, I’ve experienced the crushing weight of job-killing regulations. As a member of the Elk Grove Disability Advisory Committee, 1 have witnessed how our district’s needs are not being met by the State Government.  I’m proud to have the endorsement of the Howard Jarvis Taxpayers Association and will oppose all tax increases. 1 will also fight to end Governor Brown’s high-speed rail boondoggle with its current $68 billion price tag, almost $1,700 for every person in California or $6,800 for a family of four.  More than two decades ago 1 founded a security services firm that serves clients throughout Northern California. My firm has grown into a thriving operation with more than 160 employees. 1 have over 25 years of job creating experience and will work hard to ensure our district has greater opportunities for better-paying jobs.  1 have had the pleasure to mentor in programs like Valley High School Health TECH Academy, a program that inspires students to pursue careers in healthcare. 1 will work to reform our education system so that all students have access to vocational and continuing Career Technical Education (CTE) programs.  1 am grateful to be a part of this community, 1 would be honored to represent you in Sacramento. I’d be humbled to have your vote. Thank you.  www.gorsulowskyforassembly.com	
	

STATEMENT OF CANDIDATE FOR
GOVERNING BOARD MEMBER, TRUSTEE AREA 2
SAN JOAQUIN DELTA COMMUNITY COLLEGE DISTRICT

CARLOS A. HUERTA
Occupation: Educator

My education and qualifications are: As your San Joaquin
Delta College Trustee, I will be your voice for a better future for
our students and community. Business development in our
communities’ hinges on Delta College preparing students in
transfer and vocational programs that are current with the needs
of employment opportunities.

As your advocate, I will work to provide programs that are more
relevant and accessible, preparing students to enter the
workforce ready for their job. I will work to see that Delta College
keeps its promises and serves all the students. We must build life
skills in students, such as honesty, hard work, and being on time-
the skills businesses demand, the experience students need, the
training that a 21st century global marketplace requires.

As a local educator who graduated from Delta College from a low
income family, I personally know how vital Delta College is to our
economic and social welfare. Vote for me, and I will do my
absolute best to make sure decisions represent your voice in the
best interest of all students.

STATEMENT OF CANDIDATE FOR
GOVERNING BOARD MEMBER, TRUSTEE AREA 2
SAN JOAQUIN DELTA COMMUNITY COLLEGE DISTRICT

CLAUDIA Y. MORENO-RABAGO
Occupation: Incumbent

My education and qualifications are: I am currently serving as
Trustee and President of the Board. My top priority is to have a
vibrant educational system in our community that meets the
diverse needs of our youth and adult learners.

Like most of you, I have relied on public education to advance. As
former Delta College student, I know education is the key to
success for our students and community. I want future
generations to be given the same opportunity I had to achieve “the
American Dream.”

As an educator for 29 years, I understand the educational needs
of our community. I am committed to ensuring the college offers
a world class education. As Trustee, I work to ensure fiscally
responsible spending that in turn supports higher accreditation
standards, bridge communication between K-12 systems, and
adopt policies that celebrate the diversity of the students,
community and staff. I feel strongly about preparing an educated
and trained work force to grow our local economy.

I am not interested in this position for reasons of power, name
recognition or political gain. I will represent you in making a
difference in our community which hungers for support, honesty,
justice and accountability.

39-6

SJ 024-012

LODI UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT

MEASURE U

Local	School	Repair/Student	Safety

Measure. To repair and	upgrade aging

classrooms in local schools to prepare
students for college and careers, retain/
attract	quality	teachers and	improve

student health/safety by removing mold/
asbestos/lead paint, repairing leaky roofs,
updating classrooms and acquiring/
constructing/modernizing sites/facilities/
equipment, shall Lodi Unified School
District issue $281,000,000 of bonds at
legal	interest	rates,	with	citizens’

oversight, annual audits, no money for
administrators’ salaries/pensions and all
funds staying local?

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE U

Local School Repair/Student Safety Measure. To
repair and upgrade aging classrooms in local
schools to prepare students for college and
careers, retain/ attract quality teachers and improve
student health/ safety by removing
mold/asbestos/lead paint, repairing leaky roofs,
updating	classrooms	and

acquiring/constructing/modernizing sites/facilities/
equipment, shall Lodi Unified School District issue
$281,000,000 of bonds at legal interest rates, with
citizens’ oversight, annual audits, no money for
administrators’ salaries/pensions and all funds
staying local?

Bonds—Yes	Bonds—No

BOND AUTHORIZATION

By approval of this proposition by at least 55 percent of the
registered voters voting on the measure, the Lodi Unified School
District (the “District”) will be authorized to issue and sell bonds
of up to $281,000,000 in aggregated principal at interest rates
not in excess of the legal limit and to provide financing for the
specific projects listed in the Bond Project List described below,
subject to all the accountability requirements specified below.

The Bonds may be issued under the provisions of the California
Education Code (starting at Section 15100), under the provisions
of the California Government Code (starting at Section 53506),
or under any other provision of law authorizing the issuance of
general obligation bonds by school districts. The Bonds may be
issued in series by the District from time to time, and each series

of Bonds shall mature within the legal limitations set forth in the
applicable law under which the Bonds are issued.

FINANCING PLAN

The District intends to use the Bonds to modernize, replace,
renovate, construct, acquire and rebuild the District facilities on
the Bond Project List.

All Bonds will be sold as current interest bonds and the use of
capital appreciation bonds will not be permitted. No series of
Bonds will be issued if such issuance would cause the tax rate
levied to pay debt service on all of the outstanding Bonds to
exceed $60 per year per $100,000 of taxable property, based on
projections made by the District at the time of issuance of such
series of Bonds.

ACCOUNTABILITY REQUIREMENTS

The provisions in this section are specifically included in this
proposition in order that the voters and taxpayers in the District
may be assured that their money will be spent wisely.
Expenditures to address specific facility needs of the District will
be in compliance with the requirements of Article XIIIA, Section
1(b)(3), of the State Constitution and the Strict Accountability in
Local School Construction Bonds Act of 2000 (codified at
Education Code Sections 15264 and following).

Evaluation of Needs. The Board of Education of the District
(the “Board of Education”) has identified detailed facility needs of
the District and has determined which projects to finance from a
local bond at this time. The Board of Education hereby certifies
that it has evaluated safety, class size reduction, enrollment
growth, and information technology needs in developing the
Bond Project List shown below.

Independent Citizens’ Oversight Committee. The Board of
Education shall establish an Independent Citizens’ Oversight
Committee under Education Code Section 15278 and following
to ensure that bond proceeds are expended only on the school
facilities projects listed below. The committee will be established
within 60 days of the date when the results of the election
appear in the minutes of the Board of Education.

Performance Audits. The Board of Education shall conduct an
annual, independent performance audit to ensure that the bond
proceeds have been expended only on the school facilities
projects described in the Bond Project List below.

Financial Audits. The Board of Education shall conduct an
annual, independent financial audit of the bond proceeds until all
of those proceeds have been spent for the school facilities
projects described in the Bond Project List below.

Annual Report. The Associate Superintendent of Business
Services/Chief Business Officer of the District will cause an
annual report to be filed with the Board of Education, the first
report to be filed not later than one year after the issuance of the
first series of the bonds, which report will contain pertinent
information regarding the amount of funds collected and
expended, as well as the status of the projects listed in this
measure, as required by applicable California law.

BONDS

YES

BONDS

NO

U-1101

SJ 024-013

Expenditure of Bond Proceeds. The proceeds from the sale of
the District’s bonds will be used only for the purposes specified
in this measure, and not for any other purpose. Such proceeds
will be deposited into a Project Fund to be held by the San
Joaquin County Treasurer, as required by the California
Education Code.

FURTHER SPECIFICATIONS

No Administrator Salaries. Proceeds from the sale of bonds
authorized by this proposition shall be used only for the school
facilities projects on the Bond Project List below, and not for any
other purpose, including teacher and administrator salaries and
other school operating expenses; provided, however, that bond
proceeds may be used to pay for project administration by
District personnel during the duration of such projects.

BOND PROJECT LIST

Scope of Projects. The Bond Project List shown below is a part
of the ballot measure and must be reproduced in any official
document required to contain the full statement of the bond
measure.

The Board of Education is committed to repairing and upgrading
its old schools, attracting and retaining quality teachers, and
preparing students for college and careers, removing mold,
asbestos, and lead paint, repairing leaky roofs, and ensuring the
safety and security of all students. To that end, the Board of
Education received input from teachers, staff and the community
and evaluated the District’s urgent and critical facility needs,
including the need for up-to-date technology, science labs,
safety issues, and computer and information technology; and
adopted a Long Range Facilities Master Plan presented to the
Board of Education on June 7, 2016. In developing the scope of
projects, community members were engaged to prioritize the key
health and safety and repair needs so that the most critical
school site needs are addressed.

In approving the following priorities Project List, the Board of
Education determines that the District must:

(a)	attract and retain quality teachers;

(b)	improve student safety;

(c)	remove hazardous materials like asbestos, mold and
lead paint from older school sites;

(d)	provide clean and safe classrooms and a quality
learning environment for current and future students;

(e)	update deteriorating and outdated electrical systems
and wiring to provide job training for students who
plan to enter the workforce right after high school;
and

(f)	adhere to specific fiscal accountability safeguards
such as:

(i)	ensure all funds are only used locally;

(ii)	prohibit the State from taking any of the funds
raised;

(iii)	require that expenditures are subject to annual
independent financial audits;

(iv)	prohibit funds from being used for administrator’s
salaries or pensions; and

(v)	require independent citizens’ oversight of bond
funds.

Bond proceeds will be expended to modernize, replace,
renovate, construct, acquire and rebuild the District’s facilities as
described in the following list. Whenever specific items are
included in the following list, they are presented to provide an
example and are not intended to limit the generality of the
broader description of the types of authorized projects.

The Project List includes the following types of upgrades and
improvements at the following District schools:

Ansel Adams	Lois E. Borchardt	Tokay Colony
Beckman	Manlio Silva Houston	Turner Academy
Clairmont	Joe Serna Jr.	Walter J. Katnich
Clyde W. Needham	Christa McAuliffe	Tokay
C reeks ide	Delta Sierra	Millswood
Davis	Henderson	Morada
Elkhorn	Lodi Middle	Lockeford
Ellerth E. Larson	Bear Creek	Oakwood
Erma B. Reese	Liberty	Parklane
George Lincoln Mosher	Lodi High	Podesta Ranch
George Washington	Plaza Robles	Sutherland
Heritage	Ronald E. McNair	Victor
John Muir	Lincoln Tech. Academy	Vinewood
Julia Morgan	Needham West	Wagner Holt
Lakewood	School/Readiness Preschool	Westwood
Lawrence Leroy Nichols	Turner	Woodbridge

Live Oak

Such projects shall include but shall not be limited to:

1.	Repairing and upgrading aging schools District-
wide. Most of the District’s schools were built
decades ago and, as a result, many are aging and in
need of basic health and safety upgrades. Funds
from this measure will be used to repair deteriorating
restrooms and leaky roofs, remove mold, asbestos,
and lead paint, and replace outdated electrical,
heating and air conditioning so children can learn in
safe, healthy classrooms.

•	Upgrade moldy, deteriorating portable
classrooms, or replace with permanent
classrooms

•	Repair roofs

•	Remove asbestos

•	Repair and rebuild	aging classrooms and

school facilities to meet health and safety
requirements

•	Repair and upgrade school heating and air
conditioning systems

•	Meet handicapped	accessibility	(ADA)

requirements in restrooms, classrooms and
schools sites

•	Providing adequate	facilities for	physical

education to keep students healthy

•	Remove lead paint

•	Repair deteriorating restrooms

•	Repair aging plumbing systems

•	Remove mold

U-1102

SJ 024-014

2.	School Safety and Security Upgrades. Many
schools are outdated or have insufficient security
features that need to be improved. This measure will
help install security fencing, cameras and lighting,
and upgrade other essential security systems to
provide safe learning environments.

•	Improve campus security by installing
additional lighting, fencing, and access control

•	Update fire alarm and sprinkler systems

•	Reconstruct/reconfigure loading zones and
parking lots for student safety

3.	Technology and Science Modernization Projects.

In order to succeed in the 21st Century economy, our
students need skills in the fields of science,
technology, engineering, and math. This measure
will improve and upgrade classrooms so that all
students have access to the education programs and
technology necessary to prepare them for college and
careers. Additionally, it will allow students in technical
and vocational education programs access to hands-
on interactive learning tools to help them acquire the
real-world skills they need to compete for good-
paying jobs when they graduate.

•	Update deteriorating and outdated electrical
systems/infrastructures and wiring for computer
technology and internet access

•	Provide new science labs

•	Upgrade	career technical and vocational

classrooms

•	Upgrade	classroom technology to prepare

students for the 21st Century economy

•	Improve	student access to computers and

modern technology

Each of the bond projects described in this Bond Project List
include all costs incidental but directly related to the specific
projects described above. Such costs include, but are not limited
to, demolition of existing structures, rental or construction of
storage facilities and other space on an interim basis for materials
and other equipment and furnishings displaced during
construction, interim classrooms and facilities for students,
administrators, and school functions but only to the extent such
facilities are deemed necessary by the Board of Education as a
result of unforeseen conditions, addressing unforeseen conditions
revealed by construction/modernization and other necessary
improvements required to comply with existing building codes,
including the Field Act, access requirements of the Americans with
Disabilities Act (“ADA”), costs of the election, bond issuance costs
and project administration during the duration of such projects,
including administration by District personnel.

For any project listed above with respect to construction at an
existing District site, the District is authorized to identify an
alternate site and/or acquire land for such purpose and construct
the approved project at such site if the District has determined
that the existing site does not satisfy any requirements of the
Division of State Architect or other State laws, codes and
regulations applicable to public school sites.

The order in which school facilities projects are listed above
does not suggest an order of priority. Project priority will be

determined by the Board of Education. The District is unable to
anticipate all unforeseen circumstances which may prevent
some of the projects listed above from being undertaken or
completed.

Projects Subject to Available Funding. The foregoing list of
projects is subject to the availability of adequate funding to the
District. Approval of the bond measure does not guarantee that
the proposed projects in the District that are the subject of bonds
under the measure will be funded beyond the local revenues
generated by the bond measure. The District’s proposal for the
projects may assume the receipt of matching state funds, which
could be subject to appropriation by the Legislature or approval
of a statewide bond measure.

TAX RATE STATEMENT FOR MEASURE U

LODI UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT

An election will be held in the Lodi Unified School District
(the “District”) on November 8, 2016, to authorize the sale of up
to $281,000,000 in bonds of the District to continue improving
the quality of education in local schools of the District.
Specifically, bond proceeds shall be utilized for the purposes of
modernizing, replacing, renovating, constructing, acquiring and
rebuilding school facilities in the District.

If the bonds are authorized and sold, debt service thereon
will be payable from the proceeds of tax levies made upon the
taxable property in the District. The following information is
provided in compliance with Sections 9400-9404 of the Elections
Code of the State of California.

1.	The best estimate of the tax which would be required
to be levied to fund this bond issue during the first fiscal year
after the sale of the first series of bonds, based on estimated
assessed valuations available at the time of filing of this
statement, is $0.06000 per $100 ($60.00 per $100,000) of
assessed valuation in fiscal year 2017 - 2018.

2.	The best estimate of the tax which would be required
to be levied to fund this bond issue during the first fiscal year
after the sale of the last series of bonds, based on estimated
assessed valuations available at the time of filing of this
statement is $0.06000 per $100 ($60.00 per $100,000) of
assessed valuation in fiscal year 2025 - 2026.

3.	The best estimate of the highest tax rate which would
be required to be levied to fund this bond issue, based on
estimated assessed valuations available at the time of filing of
this statement, is $0.06000 per $100 ($60.00 per $100,000) of
assessed valuation in fiscal years 2015 - 2016.

4.	The best estimate of the average tax rate which
would be required to be levied to fund this bond issue during the
life of the bonds, based on estimated assessed valuations
available at the time of filing of this statement, is $0.05827 per
$100 ($58.27 per $100,000) of assessed valuation.

SJ 024-015

5.	The best estimate of the total debt service, including
principal and interest, that would be required to be repaid if all
the bonds are issued and sold is $560,823,795.

Voters should note that the estimated tax rates are based
on the ASSESSED VALUE of taxable property on the County’s
official tax rolls, not on the property’s market value. Taxpayers
eligible for property tax exemption, such as the homeowner’s
exemption will be taxed at a lower effective tax rate than
described above, and certain taxpayers may be eligible for a
postponement of their property taxes. Property owners should
consult their own property tax bills to determine their property’s
assessed value and any applicable tax exemptions.

Attention of all voters is directed to the fact that the
foregoing information is based upon the District’s projections and
estimates only, which are not binding upon the District. The
actual tax rates and the years in which they will apply may vary
from those presently estimated, due to variations from these
estimates in the timing of bond sales, the amount of bonds sold
and market interest rates at the time of each sale, and actual
assessed valuations over the term of repayment of the bonds.

The dates of sale and the amount of bonds sold at any
given time will be determined by the District based on the need
for construction funds and other factors, including the legal
limitations on bonds approved by a 55% vote. The actual interest
rates at which the bonds will be sold will depend on the bond
market at the time of each sale. Actual future assessed valuation
will depend upon the amount and value of taxable property
within the District as determined by the County Assessor in the
annual assessment and the equalization process.

Dated: July 12, 2016

Is/ Cathy Washer, Superintendent
Lodi Unified School District

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE U

Lodi Unified School District School Bond Measure
Prepared by San Joaquin County Counsel

Approval of Measure U would allow Lodi Unified School
District (the “District”) to incur bonded indebtedness up to a
maximum amount of two hundred eighty-one million dollars and
no cents ($281,000,000.00). The issuance and sale of such
general obligation bonds would be for repairing and upgrading
aging school facilities, school safety and security upgrades, and
technology and science modernization projects. Bond proceeds
could also be used to qualify for State of California matching
funds.

No funds derived from bond sales could be used for
District administrators’ salaries or for any purpose or project
other than those expressly stated in the measure.

To assure that funds derived from bond sales authorized
by Measure U are spent only for the purposes expressly stated

in Measure U, and for no other purposes, Measure U would
require the District to: (1) appoint an independent citizens’
oversight committee; and (2) conduct annual independent
performance and financial audits.

If Measure U is approved, and bonds are authorized and
sold, the principal thereof and interest thereon shall be payable
from the proceeds of tax levies made upon the taxable property
in the District. If Measure U is approved, the tax rate necessary
for payment of principal and interest on any bonds sold will be
largely dictated by the timing of the bond sales, the amount sold
at a given sale, market interest rates at the time of each sale
(although in no event greater than the maximum bond net
interest rate allowed by law), as well as actual assessed
valuation of taxable property in the District over the term of
repayment. A statement of the tax rate data required by
Elections Code Section 9401 will be provided to all registered
voters with the sample ballot for the bond election.

Approval of Measure U does not guarantee that the
projects proposed by the District to be funded from the proceeds
of bonds authorized and sold will be funded beyond the local
revenues generated by the bond sales authorized by Measure
U. The District’s proposal for such projects assumes the receipt
of matching State of California funds that could be subject to
appropriation by the State Legislature or to approval by a
statewide bond measure.

Passage of Measure U requires approval by fifty-five
percent (55%) of voters voting thereon.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE U

Vote Yes on U - Unite for Better Schools!

Children need your help! Most local schools were built decades
ago and need health and safety upgrades. Yes on U repairs
local schools to keep children safe and prepare them for
success!

Yes on U - Repair Aging Schools! Yes on U removes mold,
asbestos, and lead paint, repairs leaky roofs, replaces outdated,
deteriorating electrical wiring, heating/air conditioning systems
and updates fire alarms and sprinklers.

Yes on U - Prepare Students For College and Careers! Not all
students attend college. Yes on U provides students with hands-
on learning tools to gain real-world skills necessary to compete
for good paying jobs. Yes on U attracts and retains quality
teachers, upgrades classrooms, science labs, and improves
wiring for technology access to support science, technology,
engineering, and math classes which are critical to success in
the 21st Century.

Yes on U - Keep Students Safe! Yes on U creates safer schools
by enabling teachers and principals to better monitor students,
identify at-risk students, and expand programs to keep students
off the street, out of trouble, and away from gangs.

Measure U is Fiscally Accountable! Every penny will be used
only for Lodi Unified School District. Measure U includes tough

U-1104

SJ 024-016

accountability and taxpayer safeguards including Independent
Citizens Oversight and annual financial audits. No money for
administrator salaries, pensions or the State. Voting Yes on U
ensures local schools are eligible for their fair share of state
money that would otherwise go to other communities!

Measure U is a good long-term investment that helps the local
economy. Remember, quality public schools maintain strong
property values. Join teachers, parents, community leaders,
local farmers and business owners in voting Yes on U - Unite for
Better Schools! Stockton and Lodi get their fair share! Learn
more and remember to vote: www.UniteforBetterSchools.com

/s/James A. Mousalimas, San Joaquin County Superintendent of
Schools

Julia Morgan Elementary School PTA
/s/Veronica Aguas, President,

Reese Elementary School Parent Club
/s/Marcy Zimmerman, President

LUSD Bond Oversight Committee
/s/Jeff Seybold, Chairman

/s/Jose Maciel, After School Education and Safety Program
Manager

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE U

Lack of accountability: one reason to vote NO.

The Lodi Unified School District (LUSD) has eight high schools,
ten middle schools, and 32 elementary schools.

On the November ballot, there is a $9 billion statewide education
bond that will cost $17.6 billion to repay with interest. Along with
LUSD’s $281 million bond (interest to be determined), your tax
bill will get higher. How much can you afford?

What are you really pay for? Salaries and benefits, including
pensions, accounted for more than 80% of LUSD’s 2014-15
budget. In 2015-16, salaries and benefits remained at this level,
while the district allocated less than 1% for repairs.

In 2016-17, pensions costs spiraled from 21% to 24% of the
LUSD budget to cover the shortfall in the CalSTRS system
whose unfunded liabilities are estimated at more than $80 billion.
Let that sink in. LUSD is paying a quarter of its budget for
pensions, not education or building maintenance.

All of the money is going to salaries and benefits, especially
rising pension costs. There is no money left for building
maintenance.

California State Treasurer John Chiang then stated the obvious
recently when he expressed concern over pay to play
arrangements where construction companies and Wall Street
firms bankroll campaigns to pass local bond measures and then
profit from the bond money. In 2014, the FBI and SEC initiated

an investigation into the West Contra Costa Unified School
District construction bond program.

The district does not have a revenue problem, it has a spiraling
salary and pension problem that is cutting into the budget to
maintain our school buildings.

Lack of accountability: one reason to vote NO on Measure
U.

/s/Gregory P. Goehring, Taxpayer
/s/Jim Shoemaker, Taxpayer
/s/Alexander S. Aliferis, Taxpayer Advocate
/s/Jim Hicks, Taxpayer

REBUTTAL TO
ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE U

Lack of accountability: one reason to vote NO.

The bond proponents promise that bond dollars will only be used
for buildings and equipment. What they don’t tell you is that the
bond will free up more money to be spent on salaries and
spiraling pension costs that could be could be better spent on
buildings and equipment.

Did you know that the LUSD superintendent pulled in
$269,405.90 in salary and benefits in 2014? The
superintendent’s base salary alone was $235,000, which is more
than what the Governor of California makes. In 2014, Governor
Jerry Brown’s salary was $173,987, according to ballotpedia.org.

According to transparentcalifornia.com, there are over 300 Lodi
Unified employees making over $100,000 in total salary and
pension. Do you make this much in a year?

Salaries, benefits and pension costs account for more than 80%
of the LUSD budget, while a measly 1% is spent on building
maintenance.

LUSD passed a $114 million bond in 2006. Taxpayers are still
footing the bill, principal and interest.

We do not need another bond. We need to reign in spiraling
salaries and pension costs.

This will not help our children.

Lack of accountability: one reason to vote NO on Measure
U.

/s/Gregory P. Goehring, Taxpayer

/s/Alexander S. Aliferis, Taxpayer Advocate

/s/Jim Shoemaker, Taxpayer

U-1105

SJ 024-017

REBUTTAL TO
ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE U

The opponent’s argument is untrue and misleading. By law —not
one penny— of Measure U funds can be spent on administrator
salaries or pensions! Every dime is legally required to be used
on the upgrades our aging schools need for the health and
safety of our students—Vote Yes on U.

Lodi Unified School District has a history of strong and efficient
financial management. In fact, LUSD recently saved taxpayers
more than $4,000,000! This strict and transparent fiscal
stewardship will continue with Measure U.

Yes on U is fiscally accountable. Strict taxpayer safeguards,
including annual independent audits and an independent
citizen’s oversight committee, are required. No funds can be
taken by Sacramento or spent on pensions or administrators’
salaries.

Yes on U pays for basic repairs to our schools. All funds will be
used to remove mold, asbestos, and lead paint; repair leaky
roofs; replace outdated electrical, heating and air conditioning
systems; improve school safety and security; update fire alarm
and sprinkler systems; and replace old, unsafe portables.

Yes on U also upgrades classrooms and science labs, ensuring
we can continue to attract and retain quality teachers and
prepare students for college and 21st century careers.

Don’t let political rhetoric get in the way of common sense. Good
schools protect property values and keep neighborhoods
desirable. Yes on U also ensures local schools qualify for their
fair share of State matching grants that would otherwise go to
other communities.

Yes on U - Working Together Locally to Unite for Better Schools!

/s/Kelly Ray Brown, Certified Public Accountant

/s/John Griffin, 35 year Homeowner Taxpayer

/s/Daniel C. Webb, Local Business Owner

/s/Terry Quashnick, Local Business Owner

LUSD Bond Oversight Committee
/s/Homar Juarez

U-1106	SJ	024-018

CITY OF LODI

MEASURE R		
R	Shall the City of Lodi replace outdated playgrounds, repair eroded riverbank at Lodi Lake, repair and expand park trail systems, replace park restrooms and drinking fountains, and improve park parking lots, roadways, landscaping, and infrastructure, by enacting a one-eighth cent per dollar (0.125%) transactions and use (“sales”) tax, estimated to raise $1,400,000 annually, to sunset in fifteen (15) years, with all revenue exclusively applied to these specific purposes, subject to citizen oversight and annual audit?	YES
		NO

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE R

ORDINANCE NO. 1925

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OF LODI AMENDING LODI MUNICIPAL CODE
TITLE 3 - REVENUE AND FINANCE - BY ADDING
CHAPTER 3.30, “SPECIAL TRANSACTIONS AND USE
TAX FOR PARKS REPAIRS, MAINTENANCE,
IMPROVEMENTS, AND UPGRADES,” IMPOSING A
SPECIAL ONE-EIGHTH CENT PER DOLLAR (0.125%)
TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX FOR PARK
REPAIRS, MAINTENANCE, IMPROVEMENTS, AND
UPGRADES TO BE COLLECTED AND
ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE BOARD OF
EQUALIZATION SUBJECT TO VOTER APPROVAL

The City Council of the City of Lodi hereby finds as follows:

A.	Additional revenue is necessary to fund park repairs,
maintenance, and upgrades, including such items as
reconstructing parking lots and roadways at Lodi Lake and other
City parks; rehabilitating and building park trails; renovating
playgrounds; replacing and installing drinking fountains and park
furniture; improving water efficiency and making other park
infrastructure improvements.

B.	The City’s adopted budget for FY2016/17 is only able
to provide for minimal funding for the repair and maintenance of
City parks, and continues to defer capital investment needs. The
City’s financial forecast over the next five years continues to
reflect a lack of resources available to address park repairs,
maintenance, improvements, and upgrades.

C.	The City Council may propose that voters approve a
special transactions and use tax (sales tax) to raise additional

funds for park repairs, maintenance, and upgrades.

D.	A special transactions and use tax is a type of special
tax that may be imposed by the City Council to achieve these
purposes.

E.	Pursuant to Section 7285.91 of the Revenue and Tax
Code, the City Council may impose a special transactions and
use tax for general purposes at a rate of one-eighth of one
percent (0.125%) or a multiple thereof, if the ordinance
proposing the tax is approved by a two-thirds vote of all
members of the City Council and the tax subsequently is
approved by a two-thirds vote of qualified voters of the City
voting in an election.

F.	A special transactions and use tax of one-eighth of
one percent (0.125%) will generate sufficient revenue to enable
the City to begin addressing maintenance and repair work in City
parks, and to make improvements, and upgrades to park
amenities and park infrastructure throughout the City. The
special tax would generate an estimated $1,400,000 in annual
revenue and an estimated $21,000,000 over fifteen (15) years.

G.	Government Code Section 53724(c) requires that an
election on a special tax be consolidated with a statewide
primary election, a statewide general election, or a regularly
scheduled local election at which all of the electors of the local
government or district are entitled to vote.

H.	November 8, 2016 is the date of the statewide general
election and is the next election date eligible for inclusion of this
special tax measure.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ENACTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL
OF THE CITY OF LODI:

Section 1. Lodi Municipal Code Title 3 - Revenue and Finance
- is hereby amended by adding Chapter 3.30, “Special
Transaction and Use Tax for Parks Repairs, Maintenance,
Improvements, and Upgrades,” and shall read as follows:

CHAPTER 3.30

SPECIAL TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX ORDINANCE
FOR PARKS REPAIRS, MAINTENANCE,
IMPROVEMENTS, AND UPGRADES

Sections:

3.30.010	Title

3.30.020	Operative Date

3.30.030	Purpose

3.30.040	Contract with State

3.30.050	Transaction Tax Rate

3.30.060	Place of Sale

3.30.070	Use Tax Rate

3.30.080	Termination Date

3.30.090	Adoption of Provisions and State Law

3.30.100	Limitations on Adoption of State Law and
Collection of Use Taxes

3.30.110	Permit Not Required

3.30.120	Exemptions and Exclusions

3.30.130	Amendments

3.30.140	Enjoining Collection Forbidden

39-801

SJ 024-019

3.30.150	Refunds and Credits; Suits and Legal Proceedings

3.30.160	Special Fund; Restricted Use of Tax Proceeds and
Expenditure Plan

3.30.170	Establishment of Special Parks Sales Tax
Oversight Committee

3.30.180	Annual Audit and Report

3.30.010	Title. This ordinance shall be known as the City of
Lodi Special Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance for Parks
Repairs, Maintenance, Improvements, and Upgrades. The City
of Lodi hereinafter shall be called “City.” This ordinance shall be
applicable in the incorporated territory of the City.

3.30.020	Operative Date. “Operative date” means the first
day of the first calendar quarter commencing more than 110
days after the adoption of this ordinance, the date of such
adoption being as set forth below.

3.30.030	Purpose. This ordinance is adopted to achieve the
following, among other purposes, and directs that the provisions
hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish those purposes:

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in
accordance with the provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with
Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code
and Section 7285.91 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 which authorizes
the City to adopt this tax ordinance which shall be operative if
two-thirds of the electors voting on the measure vote to approve
the imposition of the tax at an election called for that purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance
that incorporates provisions identical to those of the Sales and
Use Tax Law of the State of California insofar as those
provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and
limitations contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance
that imposes a tax and provides a measure therefore that can be
administered and collected by the State Board of Equalization in
a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and
requires the least possible deviation from, the existing statutory
and administrative procedures followed by the State Board of
Equalization in administering and collecting the California State
Sales and Use Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance
that can be administered in a manner that will be, to the greatest
degree possible, consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost
of collecting the transactions and use taxes, and at the same
time, minimize the burden of record keeping upon persons
subject to taxation under the provisions of this ordinance.

3.40.040	Contract with State. Prior to the operative date, the
City shall contract with the State Board of Equalization to
perform all functions incident to the administration and operation
of this transactions and use tax ordinance; provided, that if the
City shall not have contracted with the State Board of
Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall nevertheless so
contract and in such a case the operative date shall be the first
day of the first calendar quarter following the execution of such a
contract.

3.30.050	Transactions Tax Rate. For the privilege of selling
tangible personal property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed
upon all retailers in the incorporated territory of the City at the
rate of one-eighth percent (0.125%) of the gross receipts of any
retailer from the sale of all tangible personal property sold at
retail in said territory on and after the operative date of this
ordinance.

3.30.060	Place of Sale. For the purposes of this ordinance,
all retail sales are consummated at the place of business of the
retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is delivered by
the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a
common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination. The
gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery charges,
when such charges are subject to the state sales and use tax,
regardless of the place to which delivery is made. In the event a
retailer has no permanent place of business in the State or has
more than one place of business, the place or places at which
the retail sales are consummated shall be determined under
rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the State
Board of Equalization.

3.30.070	Use Tax Rate. An excise tax is hereby imposed on
the storage, use or other consumption in the City of tangible
personal property purchased from any retailer on and after the
operative date of this ordinance for storage, use or other
consumption in said territory at the rate of one-eighth cent
(0.125%) of the sales price of the property. The sales price shall
include delivery charges when such charges are subject to State
sales or use tax regardless of the place to which delivery is
made.

3.30.080.	Termination Date. The authority to levy the tax
imposed by this ordinance shall expire on the fifteenth
anniversary of the operative date, unless extended by a two-
thirds majority vote of the voters of the City.

3.30.090	Adoption of Provisions of State Law. Except as
otherwise provided in this ordinance and except insofar as they
are inconsistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1
(commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a part of this
ordinance as though fully set forth herein.

3.30.100.	Limitations on Adoption of State Law and Collection of
Use Taxes. In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred
to	as the taxing agency, the	name of	this City shall	be

substituted therefore. Flowever,	the substitution shall not	be

made when:

1.	The word “State” is used as a part of the title of

the State Controller, State Treasurer, Victim Compensation
and Government Claims	Board,	State Board	of

Equalization, State Treasury, or the	Constitution of the

State of California;

2.	The result of that substitution would require action
to be taken by or against this City or any agency, officer, or
employee thereof rather than by or against the State Board

39-802

SJ 024-020

of Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the
administration or operation of this ordinance.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily
limited to sections referring to the exterior boundaries of the
State of California, where the result of the substitution
would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with
respect to certain sales, storage, use or other
consumption of tangible personal property which
would not otherwise be exempt from this tax while
such sales, storage, use or other consumption
remain subject to tax by the State under the
provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code, or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales,
storage, use or other consumption of tangible
personal property which would not be subject to
tax by the state under the said provision of that
code.

4.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last
sentence thereof), 6711, 6715, 6737, 6797 or
6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

B.	The word “City” shall be substituted for the word
“State” in the phrase “retailer engaged in business in this State”
in Section 6203 and in the definition of that phrase in Section
6203.

3.30.110.	Permit Not Required. If a seller’s permit has been
issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, an additional transactor’s permit shall not be
required by this ordinance.

3.30.120.	Exemptions and Exclusions.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the
transactions tax and the use tax the amount of any sales tax or
use tax levied by the State of California or by any city, city and
county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local
Sales and Use Tax Law or the amount of any state-administered
transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the
amount of transactions tax the gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than
fuel or petroleum products, to operators of aircraft to be
used or consumed principally outside the county in which
the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of
such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property
under the authority of the laws of this State, the United
States, or any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the City which
is shipped to a point outside the City, pursuant to the
contract of sale, by delivery to such point by the retailer or
his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for
shipment to a consignee at such point. For purposes of this
paragraph, delivery to a point outside the City shall be
satisfied:

a.	With respect to vehicles (other than
commercial vehicles) subject to registration
pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section
4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft
licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the
Public Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels
registered under Chapter 2 of Division 3.5
(commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle
Code by registration to an out-of-City address
and by a declaration under penalty of perjury,
signed by the buyer, stating that such address is,
in fact, his or her principal place of residence; and

b.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by
registration to a place of business out-of-City and
declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by
the buyer, that the vehicle will be operated from
that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller
is obligated to furnish the property for a fixed price pursuant
to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this
ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a
continuing sale of such property, for any period of time for
which the lessor is obligated to lease the property for an
amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of this
ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4) of this
section, the sale or lease of tangible personal property shall
be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or
lease for any period of time for which any party to the
contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the
contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is
exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax levied by this
ordinance, the storage, use or other consumption in this City of
tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have
been subject to a transactions tax under any state-
administered transactions and use tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased
by operators of aircraft and used or consumed by such
operators directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft
as common carriers of persons or property for hire or
compensation under a certificate of public convenience and
necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this State, the
United States, or any foreign government. This exemption is
in addition to the exemptions provided in Sections 6366 and
6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of
California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the
property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into
prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right
or power over, the tangible personal property arises under a
lease which is a continuing purchase of such property for

39-803

SJ 024-021

any period of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease
the property for an amount fixed by a lease prior to the
operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4) of this
section, storage, use, or other consumption, or possession
of, or exercise of any right or power over, tangible personal
property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a
contract or lease for any period of time for which any party
to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to
terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not
such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7) , a
retailer engaged in business in the City shall not be required
to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible personal
property, unless the retailer ships or delivers the property
into the City or participates within the City in making the
sale of the property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or
receiving the order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of
business of the retailer in the City or through any
representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or
person in the City under the authority of the retailer.

7.	“A retailer engaged in business in the City” shall
also include any retailer of any of the following: vehicles
subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing
with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft
licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public
Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels registered under
Chapter 2 of Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840)
of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to collect
use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the
vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the City.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance
may credit against that tax any transactions tax or
reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district imposing, or
retailer liable for, a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code with respect to the
sale to the person of the property the storage, use or other
consumption of which is subject to the use tax.

3.30.130.	Amendments.

A.	All amendments subsequent to the effective date of
this ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and which are not
inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6
and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code,
shall automatically become a part of this ordinance, provided
however, that no such amendment shall operate so as to affect
the rate of tax imposed by this ordinance.

B.	Pursuant to Elections Code Section 9217 or any
successor statute, the City Council may amend or repeal this
ordinance and any of its exhibits, but not increase or extend the
rate of tax levied herein, without a vote of the people.

3.30.140	Enjoining Collection Forbidden.

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable
process shall issue in any suit, action or proceeding in any court

against the State or the City, or against any officer of the State
or the City, to prevent or enjoin the collection under this
ordinance, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.

3.30.150.	Refunds and Credits: Suits and Legal Proceedings.

A.	Refunds of and credits for any tax paid pursuant to
this Chapter may be made only as provided for in Part 1
(commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code.

B.	Suits and proceedings for the recovery of any amount
alleged to have been erroneously or illegally determined or
collected pursuant to this Chapter may be maintained in any
court only as provided for in Part 1 (commencing with Section
6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code. A
judgment shall not be rendered in favor of the plaintiff in any
action brought against the State Board of Equalization to recover
any amount paid when the action is brought by or in the name of
an assignee of the person paying the amount or by any person
other than the person who paid the amount.

3.30.160.	Special Fund: Restricted Use of Tax Proceeds and
Expenditure Plan.

All proceeds of the special tax levied and imposed by this
ordinance shall be accounted for and paid into a special fund or
account designated for use by the City of Lodi only for parks
services as set forth in the Parks Expenditure Plan for the
administration and expenditure of the tax revenue, attached to
this ordinance as Exhibit 1, and made a part hereof as though
fully set forth herein. The Parks Expenditure Plan may be
amended from time to time by a majority vote of the City Council,
as long as the fund continues to be utilized for parks repairs,
maintenance, and upgrades. No revenues collected pursuant to
the tax levied by this ordinance may be spent on General Fund
operating expenses in effect at the time this ordinance becomes
effective, or projects that are not a part of the Parks Expenditure
Plan. Revenues collected by this ordinance shall supplement,
rather than replace, existing City expenditures for parks services
as reflected in the FY 2016/2017 budget.

3.30.170	Establishment of Special Parks Sales Tax
Oversight Committee.

A.	Committee Established. A Citizens’ Oversight
Committee is hereby established in the City of Lodi to monitor
the expenditures of revenue collected pursuant to this Ordinance
only and to report to the People and the City Council.

B.	Selection of Members. Members of the Citizens’
Oversight Committee shall be appointed by the City Council. The
Committee shall consist of five members. Members of the
Citizens’ Oversight Committee shall not be current City of Lodi
employees, officials, contractors, or vendors of the City. Past
employees, officials, contractors, and vendors shall be eligible to
serve on the Committee, provided that there are no conflicts of
interest as determined by the City Attorney. Of the members of
the Committee first appointed, three members shall be
appointed for terms of two years and two members shall be
appointed for terms of three years. Their successors shall be
appointed for terms of three years. No member may serve more
than two consecutive three-year terms. The City Council shall

39-804

SJ 024-022

solicit members of the Citizens’ Oversight Committee, through
an open application process that is promoted through the City’s
adopted recruiting process. Any resident of Lodi is eligible to
apply for Committee membership, subject to the restrictions
specified above. All applications will be reviewed by the City
Council, which will have the authority to make final decisions
regarding Committee composition, subject to the guidelines in
this ordinance.

C.	Purposes and Jurisdiction. The Citizens’ Oversight
Committee shall conduct an annual review of expenditures of
revenue collected pursuant to this ordinance to determine
whether such funds are expended for the purposes specified in
the then-current Parks Expenditure Plan. Committee members
may review the annual financial audit performed by an
independent auditor during the review process. The Citizens’
Oversight Committee shall issue an annual report on their
findings to the City Council and to the People. The Citizens’
Oversight Committee annual report is subject to review and
approval of the City Council. The Committee shall confine its
review specifically to revenues generated pursuant to this
ordinance and the expenditure of those revenues. The
Committee shall serve in an advisory-only role to the City
Council. Committee members shall not play a formal or informal
role in contracting, project management, or any other aspect of
the parks repairs, maintenance and upgrades funded by this
ordinance. The Committee is not charged with decision-making
on spending priorities; schedules; project details; funding source
decisions; financing plans, including changes or revisions to the
Parks Expenditure Plan; or tax rate assumptions. The
Committee shall have no jurisdiction other than that delegated to
it by the People pursuant to this ordinance. The Lodi City
Manager or the City Manager’s designee shall provide
reasonable administrative or technical assistance required by
the Committee to fulfill its responsibilities or publicize its findings.

D.	Meetings. The Citizens’ Oversight Committee shall
meet annually with specific meeting dates to be determined by
Committee members. The Citizens’ Oversight Committee
meetings are subject to the Brown Act. Meetings must be
noticed and open to the public. Committee minutes and reports
are a matter of public record, and must be posted on a web site
provided by the City. Additional meetings may be scheduled by
the Committee as necessary. All Committee members shall
attend a training and orientation session prior to the first regular
Committee meeting. Committee members are expected to
attend all regular meetings. Failure to attend two consecutive
meetings may result in removal from the Committee at the
discretion of the City Council.

E.	Committee Operations. The Citizens’ Oversight
Committee will select members to serve as Chair and Vice Chair
of the Committee. A City staff person will be appointed by the
City Manager, or the City Manager’s designee, to serve as
Secretary. The Secretary will be responsible for preparing,
posting and distributing agendas and taking minutes at each
meeting. Approved minutes shall be made available to the
public. Committee decisions, positions, findings and procedures
shall require a simple majority vote of those Committee
members in attendance. The quorum requirement for any
meeting shall be a minimum of three (3) members.

F.	Vacancies. Committee members may be removed
from the Committee only by the City Council for repeated

absences at committee meetings, malfeasance, failure to meet
the qualifications set forth in this Section, or for inability or
unwillingness to fulfill the duties of a Committee member. In the
event of removal, resignation, or death, the City Council shall
appoint a person to fill the vacant seat.

G.	Miscellaneous. Subject to the restrictions specifically
addressed in this Section, the Committee may draft and adopt its
own standard procedures and by-laws by majority vote. All
Citizens’ Oversight Committee procedures and by-laws remain
subject to review and approval of the City Council.

3.30.180	Annual Audit and Report.

A.	The revenue from the tax imposed by the Chapter
shall be subject to the annual audit performed by the
City’s independent auditor of the City’s books,
records, accounts, and fiscal procedures and which is
reported in the City’s Comprehensive Annual
Financial Report.

B.	In addition to the annual audit, an Annual Review
Report shall be prepared by the City, setting forth the
amount of revenue received from the tax imposed by
this Chapter, amount of disbursements, and
description of expenditures. The purpose of the report
is to assure accountability and the proper
disbursement of the revenue from the tax imposed by
this Chapter. The Annual Review Report shall be filed
in the Office of the City Clerk not later than January
31st following the fiscal year in which the tax is
collected.

Section 2. No Mandatory Duty of Care. This ordinance is not
intended to and shall not be construed or given effect in a
manner which imposes upon the City, or any officer or employee
thereof, a mandatory duty of care towards persons or property
within the City or outside of the City so as to provide a basis of
civil liability for damages, except as otherwise imposed by law.

Section 3. Severability. If any provision of this ordinance or
the application thereof to any person or circumstance is held
invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remainder of the
ordinance and the application of such provision to other persons
or circumstances shall not be affected thereby. The City Council
of the City of Lodi hereby declares that they would have adopted
each and every provision of this ordinance regardless of the
invalidity of any other provision.

Section 4. All ordinances and parts of ordinances in conflict
herewith are repealed insofar as such conflict may exist.

Section 5. Compliance with the California Environmental
Quality Act. The approval of this ordinance is exempt from the
California Environmental Quality Act (Public Resources Code
Sections 21000, et seq., “CEQA” and 14 Cal. Code of Regs.
Sections 15000 et seq., “CEQA Guidelines”). This ordinance
imposes a special sales tax that can be used for any legitimate
governmental purposes as specified in this ordinance. It is not a
commitment to any specific project that may result in a
potentially significant physical impact on the environment.

39-805

SJ 024-023

Section 6. Codification. Subject to the voter approval, the City	EXHIBIT 1
Clerk, in consultation with the City Attorney, is hereby authorized and directed to codify this ordinance in the Lodi Municipal Code.  Section 7. Effective Date. If this ordinance is approved by	TO ORDINANCE ADDING CHAPTER 3.30 “SPECIAL TRANSACTION AND USE TAX FOR PARKS REPAIRS, MAINTENANCE, IMPROVEMENTS, AND UPGRADES”  PARKS SPENDING PLAN
two-thirds of the voters voting on the issue at the November 8, 2016 election, pursuant to Elections Code Section 9217, this ordinance shall become effective ten (10) days after the City Council declares the results of the election.	
Section 8. Certification and Publication. The Citv Clerk shall	
certify the final approval of this ordinance, publish the same as required by law, and forward a certified copy of the adopted ordinance to the State Board of Equalization.	
Approved this 20th day of July, 2016	
Is/ MARK CHANDLER Mayor	r \
ATTEST:	NEXT PAGE
Is/ JENNIFER M. FERRAIOLO, City Clerk	
State of California County of San Joaquin, ss.  1, Jennifer M. Ferraiolo, City Clerk of the City of Lodi, do hereby certify that Ordinance No. 1925 was introduced at a regular meeting of the City Council of the City of Lodi held July 6, 2016, and was thereafter passed, adopted, and ordered to print at a regular meeting of said Council held July 20, 2016, by the following vote:	V J
AYES: COUNCIL MEMBERS - Johnson, Kuehne, Mounce, and Mayor Chandler	
NOES: COUNCIL MEMBERS - None	
ABSENT: COUNCIL MEMBERS - Nakanishi	
ABSTAIN: COUNCIL MEMBERS - None	
1 further certify that Ordinance No. 1925 was approved and signed by the Mayor on the date of its passage and the same has been published pursuant to law.	
/s/ JENNIFER M. FERRAIOLO City Clerk	
Approved to Form:	
Is/ JANICE D. MAGDICH City Attorney	

39-806

SJ 024-024

item # Parks spending plan: One-eighth cent, 15 years

2017/18 2018/19	2019/20	2020/21	2021/22	2022/23	2023/24	2024/25	2025/26	2026/27	2027/28	2028/29	2029/30	2030/31	2031/32

$800,000

$150,000 $1,000,000 $1,240,000
$115,000

$100,000	$225,000

$175,000	$175,000

Lodi Lake Park South Shore Reconstruction
Lodi Lake Erosion Control
Candy Cane Park Renovations
Legion Park improvements

Emerson Park playground renovations/field improvements
Lodi Lake Park North Side Playground
Lodi Lake Park North Pavement

8	Parks Annex roof replacement

9	Nature Area trail rehabilitation

10	Dog Park amenities

11	Beckman Park playground installation

12	Replaster Blakely Park pool/repairs

13	Lodi Lake Park South Shore Restroom replacement

14	Peterson Park upgrades

15	Salas Park sports lighting replacement
Henry Glaves Park playground replacement

17	English Oaks Common playground/picnic

18	Lodi Lake riverfront trail
Mnewood Park Restroom demo/replacement
Century Meadows Park playground surface
Lodi Lake Park Master Plan improvements TBD
Mnewood Park irrigation system upgrades
Hutchins Street Square Pool HVAC system

24	English Oaks downsize playground area, wall repair

25	Blakely Park aquatics restroom renovation/field repairs
Remove Lawrence Park restroom

27	Salas Park parking lot reconstruction

28	Kofu Park repairs

29	Softball Complex renovations
Replaster/mechanical replacement Lake wading pool

31	Beckman Park irrigation booster pump

32	Construct splash pad at location T BD

33	Zupo Field lighting replacement

34	Chapman Field repairs

35	Zupo Field seating repairs

36	Aquatic facility mechanical replacement

37	New playground at Borchardt and Mnewood parks
Beckman Park picnic shelter

Century Park playground replacement

39	Replace Lodi Lake Park North restroom

40	Salas Park Playground replacement

41	Lawrence Park playground replacement

42	Peterson Park playground replacement

43	Zupo Field outfield turf renovations
Replace Emerson Park restrooms

45	Parks Mechanic shop im provements

46	Hale Park Community/Restroom renovations

47	Blakely Park playground/sports court replacement

48	Hale Park playground replacement

49	Century Meadows playground replacement

50	Replace Hutchins Street Square Pool liner

51	Hutchins Street Square playground replacement

52	Kofu Park restroom/concession renovations

53	Katzakian Park restroom/playground renovation

54	Van Buskirk Park playground replacement

55	Lawrence Park renovations, T BD

56	Hale Park parking lot reconstruction

57	Salas Park restroom renovations

58	Salas Park bleacher seating repairs

16

26

30

38

44

$200,000

$750,000

$85,000

$180,000

$25,000

$200,000

$80,000

$400,000

$45,000

$300,000

$180,000

$80,000

$225,000

$245,000

$675,000

$255,000

$55,000

$500,000 $500,000 $500,000 $500,000

$150,000

$350,000

$55,000

$80,000	$405,000

$10,000
$500,000
$142,000

$575,000

$20,000

$60,000

$200,000

$150,000

$160,000

$450,000

$40,000

$200,000 $200,000

$225,000

$180,000

$400,000

$225,000

$175,000

$225,000

$85,000

$300,000

$80,000

$400,000

$300,000

$180,000

$200,000

$75,000

$225,000

$150,000

$225,000

$5,000

59	Replace worn playground apparatus/fall zones	$5,000	$5,000	$5,000	$5,000	$5,000	$5,000	$5,000	$5,000	$5,000	$5,000	$5,000	$5,000	$5,000	$5,000	$5,000
60	Park furniture/shelter repairs & replacement	$35,000	$35,000	$30,000	$30,000	$30,000	$35,000	$40,000	$35,000	$40,000	$10,000	$35,000	$40,000	$35,000	$35,000	$35,000
61	Replace/repair/install drinking fountains	$10,000	$10,000	$10,000	$10,000	$10,000	$10,000	$10,000	$10,000	$10,000	$10,000	$10,000	$10,000	$10,000	$10,000	$10,000
62	Tree safety (pruning, removal)	$75,000	$50,000	$40,000	$40,000	$40,000	$40,000	$40,000	$40,000	$40,000	$40,000	$40,000	$40,000	$40,000	$40,000	$40,000
63	T urf maintenance/repurpose	$20,000	$20,000	$20,000	$20,000	$30,000	$20,000	$20,000	$40,000	$120,000 $115,000 $100,000 $120,000 $20,000					$20,000	$20,000
64	Grape Bowl improvements (set-aside)	$50,000	$50,000	$50,000	$50,000	$50,000	$50,000	$50,000	$50,000	$50,000	$50,000	$50,000	$50,000	$50,000	$50,000	$50,000
65	Skate Park annual repairs	$5,000	$5,000	$5,000	$5,000	$5,000	$5,000	$5,000	$5,000	$5,000	$5,000	$5,000	$5,000	$5,000	$5,000	$5,000
66	Park irrigation system repairs/upgrades	$35,000	$25,000				$35,000	$15,000	$38,000	$10,000		$75,000	$100,000		$50,000	$55,000
67	Parking lot maintenance/renovations (set-aside)		$25,000			$25,000	$25,000	$25,000	$25,000	$25,000	$25,000	$25,000	$25,000	$25,000	$25,000	$25,000

Total

$1,400,000 $1,400,000 $1,400,000 $1,400,000 $1,400,000 $1,400,000 $1,400,000 $1,400,000 $1,400,000 $1,400,000 $1,400,000 $1,400,000 $1,400,000 $1,400,000 $1,400,000

Project totals
$800,000
$2,390,000
$115,000
$325,000
$350,000
$200,000
$750,000
$85,000
$180,000
$25,000
$200,000
$160,000
$400,000
$45,000
$300,000
$405,000
$245,000
$675,000
$255,000
$55,000
$2,000,000
$150,000
$350,000
$55,000
$485,000
$10,000
$500,000
$142,000
$575,000
$20,000
$60,000
$200,000
$150,000
$160,000
$450,000
$40,000
$400,000
$225,000
$180,000
$400,000
$225,000
$175,000
$225,000
$85,000
$300,000
$80,000
$400,000
$300,000
$180,000
$200,000
$75,000
$225,000
$150,000
$225,000
$0
$0
$0
$0
$5,000
$75,000
$500,000
$150,000
$645,000
$705,000
$750,000
$75,000
$438,000
$300,000
$21,000,000

39-807

SJ 024-025

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE R

PARK REPAIRS, MAINTENANCE, IMPROVEMENTS,

AND UPGRADES MEASURE

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

Measure R seeks voter approval of a temporary one-eighth cent
(0.125%) special transactions and use tax (commonly referred to
as a “sales tax”). If approved, the one-eighth cent sales tax
would be paid in addition to the current sales tax and collected
by the California Board of Equalization at the same time and in
the same manner as the existing sales tax.

California Revenue and Taxation Code section 7285.91
authorizes the City Council to impose a special purpose tax at a
rate of 0.125 percent or any multiple thereof, provided the tax is
approved on a 2/3 vote of all members of the City Council and
the tax is approved by 2/3 of the voters at a general election.
Special tax revenue is legally restricted to the purposes
identified in the ballot measure and cannot be re-purposed to
other City operations, programs, or service without voter
approval.

Measure R requires that the additional tax revenue be spent on
repairs and maintenance in City parks, in addition to upgrading
park amenities and infrastructure, including the reconstruction of
park roadways and parking lots, rehabilitation of park trails,
repair of erosion in the area of the Lodi Lake amphitheater,
replacement of playground equipment, renovation of park
bathrooms, replacement of picnic tables, benches and drinking
fountains, as specified in a detailed expenditure plan
incorporated into the Ordinance.

If Measure R is approved, the special purpose tax will increase
the local sales tax in the City of Lodi from the current rate of 8%
to 8.125% and be in effect from April 1, 2017 through March 31,
2032. Any extension of the tax beyond March 31, 2032, would
require additional approval of 2/3 of the voters at a general
election.

The City estimates Measure R will generate $1,400,000 in
revenue annually. The measure calls for the additional tax
revenue to be deposited into a special fund and the City’s
independent auditors to annually audit the collection,
management, and expenditure of the tax revenue during their
annual audit of City finances.

Measure R also establishes a citizen’s oversight committee to
oversee expenditures of the additional tax revenue and requires
the committee meet annually to review the previous year’s
expenditure of the increased tax revenue and to provide a report
to the City Council stating how the funds were spent.

Measure R is placed on the ballot by action of the City Council of
the City of Lodi (Ordinance No. 2016-126).

Is/ Janice D. Magdich
City Attorney
City of Lodi

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE R

Yes on Measure R for Recreation and save Lodi Lake Park, the
crown jewel of our parks system!

Few communities are blessed with a park of such grand natural
beauty for all to enjoy. But Lodi Lake Park is imperiled by
erosion eating away at the north bank of the park and the bank
protecting Pigs Lake. With only ten feet remaining, it is only a
matter of time before Pigs Lake is swallowed by the river. Sadly,
that will mean flooding of the nature area, which has an
elevation several feet below the river, unless we take action.

Measure R will invest an estimated $21 million over 15 years
into Lodi Lake fixes, and overdue repairs and upgrades at other
parks, such as replacing outdated playground structures and
aging restrooms, and create new walking trails. However, the
return to the community would far exceed that investment.
Healthy, well-maintained parks promote economic vitality,
enhance residents’ quality of life and improve their home values.

Because Measure R is an incremental increase in the sales tax,
its impact would be spread among all who come to Lodi to shop,
not just Lodi residents. It raises Lodi’s sales tax by 0.125
percent, or one penny on every $8 spent on taxable items. It
amounts to about $3.50 per household per month.

It’s a small amount that goes a long way, raising an estimated
$1.4 million a year. Not one cent of new revenue would go
toward public employee pensions or benefits or City staffing. It
all goes back into repairs and upgrades we can see and touch,
like a riverfront trail at Lodi Lake Park, dog park amenities and
better sports fields, not for things we can’t afford to maintain.

Please VOTE YES for Measure R on November 8, 2016.

Submitted by:

Is/ Mark Chandler, Mayor
Is/ David Phillips

Is/ Larry Long, Recreation Commission Chairman
Is/ Annette V. Murdaca

Is/ Robert Paine, Boosters of Boys and Girls Sports

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE R

Lack of Accountability: one reason to vote NO.

The sales tax measure increases Lodi’s sales tax from 8.0% to
8.125%. It is cheaper to purchase goods in Lodi than in Stockton
where the sales tax is 9%. According to the Tax Foundation,
California has the highest sales tax in the nation. LA County and
some counties in the Bay Area are inching to 10% and 11%.

39-808

SJ 024-026

Lodi has a population of 63,000 residents and about a 10%
unemployment rate. The city has 397 employees. The city
increased salaries in 2015, 2016, and 2017. Did you receive a
salary increase in the past year? Why did the city increase
salaries when pension costs are spiraling? Lodi’s unfunded
pension debt is over $92 million.

Spiraling pensions costs crowd out city services like maintenance
to parks, roads, upgrades and repairs. Available revenues are
diverted to fund yearly pension increases.

During good financial times the city ignored maintaining and
repairing existing parks. The city has acted irresponsibly by
increasing city employee salaries which increases future pension
debt. The Parks and Recreation budget is $6.2 million. Why hasn’t
Parks and Recreation set aside money for maintenance and
repairs?

A high sales tax is a regressive tax. It hurts the middle class and
people on fixed and lower incomes. It increases the cost of
goods and services.

Lack of Accountability: one reason to vote NO on Measure R.

Submitted by:

Is/ Gregory P. Goehring
Is/ Alexander S. Aliferis
Is/ Jim Shoemaker

REBUTTAL TO
ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE R

Lack of Accountability: Another reason to vote NO.

The majority of the city budget is salaries/benefits. What are
you really paying for?

What is the city not telling you? It’s appalling the city has a $92
million unfunded pension debt.

What is the guarantee that this general fund tax increase will not
be used to pay for spiraling pensions, debt, and future salary
costs? Just say No!

The Lodi Parks, Recreation & Cultural Services Director in 2015
made $176,948.18 in total pay and benefits. Do you make this
amount? A park superintendent made $128,525.93 in total pay
and benefits. Is this where your tax dollars go?

According to the California Policy Center, public safety employees
(police and fire) in California saw their total compensation increase
20% to 30% more than the rate of inflation during the period 1991-
2011.

According to transparentcalifornia.com, in 2015, over 200 Lodi city
employees made over $100,000 per year in total pay and
benefits.

A high sales tax is a regressive tax. It hurts the middle class,
and people on fixed and lower incomes. It increases the cost of
goods and services.

The City’s problem is not a lack of sales tax revenue but that
too much is being spend on compensation packages and
spiraling pension benefits.

Lack of Accountability: Another reason to vote NO on
Measure R.

Submitted by:

Is/ Gregory P. Goehring
Is/ Alexander S. Aliferis
Is/ Jim Shoemaker

REBUTTAL TO
ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE R

Not one dime of Measure R revenue will go to City salaries,
pensions or benefits. Every bit of revenue will go toward saving
Lodi Lake Park from erosion, replacing worn out playground
equipment in all our parks, fixing existing trails and building
new ones, and other overdue improvements.

Most of Lodi’s park system is like a 50-year-old house that
hasn’t replaced the original appliances, carpeting, paint and
roofing. It’s time for upgrades. We can’t hold our hand out and wait
for someone to rescue us. We need to step up and help
ourselves. Numerous studies point out the benefit of a healthy
park system on a community’s quality of life, public health,
property values and economic development.

The opponents of Measure R fail to state their alternative to a
minimal increase in the sales tax. Do they favor continued erosion
at Lodi Lake and increasingly worn pavement? Do they oppose
having our children visit safer playgrounds? Do they think
someone else will pay? Parks staffing has been reduced by a third
the past 10 years as the City’s resources are increasingly used to
pay for Public Safety needs, leaving few dollars left for additional
park repairs and maintenance.

Half of Lodi households will pay less than $20 a year. Measure R
includes a citizens’ oversight committee, to ensure parks are
repaired and upgraded as promised. None of the additional money
will go toward public employees’ retirement or health benefits. The
benefits are the community’s. Vote YES on Measure R!

Submitted by:

/s/ Mark Chandler, Mayor
/s/ David Phillips
Is/ Annette Murdaca

Is/ Larry Long, Lodi Recreation Commissioner
Is/ Robert Paine, Boosters of Boys & Girls Sports

39-809

SJ 024-027

CITY OF LODI

	MEASURE S	
	Shall the City of Lodi fight crime and expand programs to reduce gang violence by hiring additional police and a	YES
s	gang intervention worker, restore downtown Fire Engine 1 service, and increase training, by enacting a one- quarter cent per dollar (0.25%) transactions and use (“sales”) tax, estimated to raise $2,800,000 annually, 64% to police, 36% to fire, sunset in 15 years, all revenue exclusively applied to	NO
	these specific purposes, subject to citizen oversight and annual audit?	

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE S

ORDINANCE NO. 1926

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OF LODI AMENDING LODI MUNICIPAL CODE
TITLE 3 - REVENUE AND FINANCE - BY ADDING
CHAPTER 3.40, “SPECIAL TRANSACTIONS AND
USE TAX FOR PUBLIC SAFETY,” IMPOSING A
SPECIAL ONE-QUARTER CENT PER DOLLAR
(0.25%) TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX TO
INCREASE STAFFING FOR POLICE AND FIRE
AND ENHANCE TRAINING FOR PUBLIC SAFETY
PERSONNEL, TO BE COLLECTED AND
ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE BOARD OF
EQUALIZATION SUBJECT TO VOTER APPROVAL

The City Council of the City of Lodi hereby finds as follows:

A.	Additional revenue is necessary to increase the
number of sworn Lodi police officers to reduce crime and public
nuisances associated with the effects of Assembly Bill 109
(Public Safety Realignment) and other criminal activity within
the City, as well as increase fire staffing levels to bring
downtown Fire Engine 1 back into service, and enhance the
training of public safety (police and fire) personnel.

B.	The City’s adopted budget for FY 2016/17 does not
have revenue sufficient to increase staffing levels within the
police and fire departments or fund advanced training for public
safety personnel. The City’s financial forecast over the next
five years continues to reflect a lack of resources available to
increase public safety staffing levels or increase the training
budget for public safety personnel.

C.	The City Council may propose that voters approve
special transactions and use tax (sales tax) to raise additional
funds to increase the number of sworn police officers, hire an
additional part-time youth outreach worker to conduct gang
intervention and prevention, increase fire staffing levels to put
downtown Fire Engine 1 into service, as well to enhance the
training of public safety personnel.

D.	A special transactions and use tax is a type of
special tax that may be imposed by the City Council to achieve
these purposes.

E.	Pursuant to Section 7285.91 of the Revenue and
Tax Code, the City Council may impose a special transactions
and use tax for general purposes at a rate of one-eighth of one
percent (0.125%) or a multiple thereof, if the ordinance
proposing the tax is approved by a two-thirds vote of all
members of the City Council and the tax subsequently is
approved by a two-thirds vote of qualified voters of the City
voting in an election.

F.	A special transactions and use tax of one-quarter
of one percent (0.25%) would generate sufficient revenue to
increase the number of police officers, fund their safety
equipment, and hire a part-time youth outreach worker to
conduct gang intervention and prevention. In addition,
downtown Fire Engine 1 could be returned to service by
increasing staffing, and provide advance training to public
safety personnel. The special tax would generate an estimated
$2,800,000 in additional revenue annually, assuming taxable
sales continue at their estimated rate, to be distributed 64% to
Police (an estimated $1,792,000 per year) and 36% to Fire (an
estimated $1,008,000 per year), (cumulatively, and estimated
$26,880,000 to Police and $15,120,000 to Fire over fifteen
years).

G.	Government Code Section 53724(c) requires that
an election on a special tax be consolidated with a statewide
primary election, a statewide general election, or a regularly
scheduled local election at which all of the electors of the local
government or district are entitled to vote.

H.	November 8, 2016 is the date of the statewide
general election and is the next election date eligible for
inclusion of this special tax measure.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ENACTED BY THE CITY
COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF LODI:

Section 1. Lodi Municipal Code Title 3 - Revenue and
Finance - is hereby amended by adding Chapter 3.40, “Special
Transactions and Use Tax for Public Safety,” and shall read as
follows:

CHAPTER 3.40

SPECIAL TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX
ORDINANCE FOR PUBLIC SAFETY

Sections:

3.40.010	Title

3.40.020	Operative Date

3.40.030	Purpose

S-901

SJ 024-028

3.40.040	Contract with State

3.40.050	Transaction Tax Rate

3.40.060	Place of Sale

3.40.070	Use Tax Rate

3.40.080	Termination Date

3.40.090	Adoption of Provisions and State Law

3.40.100	Limitations on Adoption of State Law and Collection
of Use Taxes

3.40.110	Permit Not Required

3.40.120	Exemptions and Exclusions

3.40.130	Amendments

3.40.140	Enjoining Collection Forbidden

3.40.150	Refunds and Credits; Suits and Legal Proceedings

3.40.160	Special Fund; Restricted Use of Tax Proceeds and
Expenditure Plan

3.40.170	Establishment of Special Public Safety Sales Tax
Oversight Committee

3.40.180	Annual Audit and Report

3.40.010	Title. This ordinance shall be known as the City of
Lodi Special Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance for Public
Safety. The City of Lodi hereinafter shall be called “City.” This
ordinance shall be applicable in the incorporated territory of the
City.

3.40.020	Operative Date. “Operative date” means the first
day of the first calendar quarter commencing more than 110
days after the adoption of this ordinance, the date of such
adoption being as set forth below.

3.40.030	Purpose. This ordinance is	adopted to achieve

the following, among other purposes, and directs that the
provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish those
purposes:

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in
accordance with the provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with
Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code
and Section 7285.91 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 which authorizes
the City to adopt this tax ordinance which shall be operative if
two-thirds of the electors voting on the measure vote to
approve the imposition of the tax at an election called for that
purpose.

B.	To	adopt	a	retail	transactions	and	use	tax

ordinance that incorporates provisions identical to those of the
Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California insofar as
those provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and
limitations contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code.

C.	To	adopt	a	retail	transactions	and	use	tax

ordinance	that	imposes	a tax	and provides a	measure

therefore that can be administered and collected by the State
Board of Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as
practicable to, and requires the least possible deviation from,
the existing statutory and administrative procedures followed
by the State Board of Equalization in administering and
collecting the California State Sales and Use Taxes.

D.	To	adopt	a	retail	transactions	and	use	tax

ordinance that can be administered in a manner that will be, to
the greatest degree possible, consistent with the provisions of
Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code,
minimize the cost of collecting the transactions and use taxes,

and at the same time, minimize the burden of record keeping
upon persons subject to taxation under the provisions of this
ordinance.

3.40.040	Contract with State. Prior to the operative date,
the City shall contract with the State Board of Equalization to
perform all functions incident to the administration and
operation of this transactions and use tax ordinance; provided,
that if the City shall not have contracted with the State Board of
Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall nevertheless so
contract and in such a case the operative date shall be the first
day of the first calendar quarter following the execution of such
a contract.

3.40.050	Transactions Tax Rate. For the privilege of selling
tangible personal property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed
upon all retailers in the incorporated territory of the City at the
rate of one-quarter percent (0.25%) of the gross receipts of any
retailer from the sale of all tangible personal property sold at
retail in said territory on and after the operative date of this
ordinance.

3.40.060	Place of Sale. For the purposes of this ordinance,
all retail sales are consummated at the place of business of the
retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is delivered
by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a
common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination. The
gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery charges,
when such charges are subject to the state sales and use tax,
regardless of the place to which delivery is made. In the event
a retailer has no permanent place of business in the State or
has more than one place of business, the place or places at
which the retail sales are consummated shall be determined
under rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by
the State Board of Equalization.

3.40.070	Use Tax Rate. An excise tax is hereby imposed
on the storage, use or other consumption in the City of tangible
personal property purchased from any retailer on and after the
operative date of this ordinance for storage, use or other
consumption in said territory at the rate of one-quarter cent
(0.25%) of the sales price of the property. The sales price shall
include delivery charges when such charges are subject to
State sales or use tax regardless of the place to which delivery
is made.

3.40.080.	Termination Date. The authority to levy the tax
imposed by this ordinance shall expire on the fifteenth
anniversary of the operative date, unless extended by a two-
thirds majority vote of the voters of the City.

3.40.090	Adoption of Provisions of State Law. Except as
otherwise provided in this ordinance and except insofar as they
are inconsistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1
(commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a part of this
ordinance as though fully set forth herein.

3.40.100.	Limitations on Adoption of State Law and Collection
of Use Taxes. In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2
of the Revenue and Taxation Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or
referred to as the taxing agency, the name of this City shall be

S-902

SJ 024-029

substituted therefore. However, the substitution shall not be
made when:

1.	The word “State” is used as a part of the title
of the State Controller, State Treasurer, Victim
Compensation and Government Claims Board, State
Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or the Constitution
of the State of California;

2.	The result of that substitution would require
action to be taken by or against this City or any agency,
officer, or employee thereof rather than by or against the
State Board of Equalization, in performing the functions
incident to the administration or operation of this
ordinance.

3.	In those sections, including, but not
necessarily limited to sections referring to the exterior
boundaries of the State of California, where the result of
the substitution would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with
respect to certain sales, storage, use or other
consumption of tangible personal property
which would not otherwise by exempt from
this tax while such sales, storage, use or other
consumption remain subject to tax by the
State under the provisions of Part 1 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code,
or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain
sales, storage, use or other consumption of
tangible personal property which would not be
subject to tax by the state under the said
provision of that code.

4.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last
sentence thereof), 6711, 6715, 6737, 6797 or
6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

B.	The word “City” shall be substituted for the word
“State” in the phrase “retailer engaged in business in this
State” in Section 6203 and in the definition of that phrase in
Section 6203.

3.40.110.	Permit Not Required. If a seller’s permit has been
issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, an additional transactor’s permit shall not be
required by this ordinance.

3.40.120.	Exemptions and Exclusions.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the
transactions tax and the use tax the amount of any sales tax or
use tax levied by the State of California or by any city, city and
county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local
Sales and Use Tax Law or the amount of any state-
administered transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the
amount of transactions tax the gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than
fuel or petroleum products, to operators of aircraft to be

used or consumed principally outside the county in which
the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of
such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property
under the authority of the laws of this State, the United
States, or any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the City
which is shipped to a point outside the City, pursuant to
the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by the
retailer or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a
carrier for shipment to a consignee at such point. For
purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point outside the
City shall be satisfied:

a.	With respect to vehicles (other than
commercial vehicles) subject to registration
pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with
Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle
Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with
Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and
undocumented vessels registered under
Chapter 2 of Division 3.5 (commencing with
Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by
registration to an out-of-City address and by a
declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by
the buyer, stating that such address is, in fact,
his or her principal place of residence; and

b.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by
registration to a place of business out-of-City
and declaration under penalty of perjury,
signed by the buyer, that the vehicle will be
operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the
seller is obligated to furnish the property for a fixed price
pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative
date of this ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is
a continuing sale of such property, for any period of time
for which the lessor is obligated to lease the property for
an amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of
this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4) of
this section, the sale or lease of tangible personal property
shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract
or lease for any period of time for which any party to the
contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate
the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such
right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax levied by this
ordinance, the storage, use or other consumption in this City of
tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which
have been subject to a transactions tax under any state-
administered transactions and use tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products
purchased by operators of aircraft and used or consumed
by such operators directly and exclusively in the use of
such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property

S-903

SJ 024-030

for hire or compensation under a certificate of public
convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of
this State, the United States, or any foreign government.
This exemption is in addition to the exemptions provided in
Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code of the State of California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the
property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered
into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any
right or power over, the tangible personal property arises
under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such
property for any period of time for which the lessee is
obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by a
lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4) of
this section, storage, use, or other consumption, or
possession of, or exercise of any right or power over,
tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be
obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of
time for which any party to the contract or lease has the
unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon
notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a
retailer engaged in business in the City shall not be
required to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible
personal property, unless the retailer ships or delivers the
property into the City or participates within the City in
making the sale of the property, including, but not limited
to, soliciting or receiving the order, either directly or
indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer in the City
or through any representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor,
subsidiary, or person in the City under the authority of the
retailer.

7.	“A retailer engaged in business in the City”
shall also include any retailer of any of the following:
vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1
(commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the
Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section
21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented
vessels registered under Chapter 2 of Division 3.5
(commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code.
That retailer shall be required to collect use tax from any
purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or
aircraft at an address in the City.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance
may credit against that tax any transactions tax or
reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district imposing,
or retailer liable for, a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code with respect to
the sale to the person of the property the storage, use or other
consumption of which is subject to the use tax.

3.40.130.	Amendments.

A.	All amendments subsequent to the effective date
of this ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and which are
not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the

Revenue and Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6
and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code,
shall automatically become a part of this ordinance, provided
however, that no such amendment shall operate so as to affect
the rate of tax imposed by this ordinance.

B.	Pursuant to Elections Code Section 9217 or any
successor statute, the City Council may amend or repeal this
ordinance and any of its exhibits, but not increase or extend
the rate of tax levied herein, without a vote of the people.

3.40.140	Enjoining Collection Forbidden.

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable
process shall issue in any suit, action or proceeding in any
court against the State or the City, or against any officer of the
State or the City, to prevent or enjoin the collection under this
ordinance, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be
collected.

3.40.150.	Refunds and Credits: Suits and Legal Proceedings.

A.	Refunds of and credits for any tax paid pursuant to
this Chapter may be made only as provided for in Part 1
(commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code.

B.	Suits and proceedings for the recovery of any
amount alleged to have been erroneously or illegally
determined or collected pursuant to this Chapter may be
maintained in any court only as provided for in Part 1
(commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code. A judgment shall not be rendered in favor
of the plaintiff in any action brought against the State Board of
Equalization to recover any amount paid when the action is
brought by or in the name of an assignee of the person paying
the amount or by any person other than the person who paid
the amount.

3.40.160.	Special Fund: Restricted Use of Tax Proceeds and
Expenditure Plan.

All proceeds of the special tax levied and imposed by this
ordinance shall be accounted for and paid into a special fund
or account designated for use by the City of Lodi only for public
safety as set forth in the Public Safety Expenditure Plan for the
administration and expenditure of the tax revenue, attached to
this ordinance as Exhibit 1, and made a part hereof as though
fully set forth herein. The Public Safety Expenditure Plan may
be amended from time to time by a majority vote of the City
Council, as long as the fund continues to be used for public
safety. No revenues collected pursuant to the tax levied by this
ordinance may be spent on General Fund operating expenses
in effect at the time this ordinance becomes effective, or
projects that are not a part of the Public Safety Expenditure
Plan, absent a corresponding decline in General Fund
revenues or increase in non-discretionary General Fund
expenses (“Financial Contingencies”). However, revenues may
be spent on staffing in excess of those the General Fund can
support in the event of Financial Contingencies. Revenues
collected by this ordinance shall supplement, rather than
replace, existing City expenditures for public safety (police and
fire) as reflected in the FY 2016/2017 budget, absent a

S-904

SJ 024-031

3.40.170	Establishment of Special Public Safety Sales Tax
Oversight Committee.

A.	Committee Established. A Citizens’ Oversight
Committee is hereby established in the City of Lodi to monitor
the expenditures of revenue collected pursuant to this
ordinance only and to report to the People and the City
Council.

B.	Selection of Members. Members of the Citizens’
Oversight Committee shall be appointed by the City Council.
The Committee shall consist of five members. Members of the
Citizens’ Oversight Committee shall not be current City of Lodi
employees, officials, contractors, or vendors of the City. Past
employees, officials, contractors, and vendors shall be eligible
to serve on the Committee, provided that there are no conflicts
of interest as determined by the City Attorney. Of the members
of the Committee first appointed, three members shall be
appointed for terms of two years and two members shall be
appointed for terms of three years. Their successors shall be
appointed for terms of three years. No member may serve
more than two consecutive three-year terms. The City Council
shall solicit members of the Citizens’ Oversight Committee,
through an open application process that is promoted through
the City’s adopted recruiting process. Any resident of Lodi is
eligible to apply for Committee membership, subject to the
restrictions specified above. All applications will be reviewed by
the City Council, which will have the authority to make final
decisions regarding Committee composition, subject to the
guidelines in this Ordinance.

C.	Purposes and Jurisdiction. The Citizens’ Oversight
Committee shall conduct an annual review of expenditures of
revenue collected pursuant to this Ordinance to determine
whether such funds are expended for the purposes specified in
the then-current Public Safety Expenditure Plan. Committee
members may review the annual financial audit performed by an
independent auditor during the review process. The Citizens’
Oversight Committee shall issue an annual report on their
findings to the City Council and to the people. The Citizens’
Oversight Committee annual report is subject to review and
approval of the City Council. The Committee shall confine its
review specifically to revenues generated pursuant to this
ordinance and the expenditure of those revenues. The
Committee shall serve in an advisory-only role to the City
Council. Committee members shall not play a formal or informal
role in the hiring, retention, or training of public safety personnel
funded by this ordinance. The Committee is not charged with
decision-making on spending priorities; schedules; staffing
levels; funding source decisions; financing plans, including
changes or revisions to the Public Safety Expenditure Plan; or
tax rate assumptions. The Committee shall have no jurisdiction
other than that delegated to it by the people pursuant to this
ordinance. The Lodi City Manager or the City Manager’s designee
shall provide reasonable administrative or technical assistance
required by the Committee to fulfill its responsibilities or publicize
its findings.

D.	Meetings. The Citizens’ Oversight Committee shall
meet annually with specific meeting dates to be determined by
Committee members. The Citizens’ Oversight Committee
meetings are subject to the Brown Act. Meetings must be noticed

and open to the public. Committee minutes and reports are a
matter of public record, and must be posted on a web site
provided by the City. Additional meetings may be scheduled by
the Committee as necessary. All Committee members shall attend
a training and orientation session prior to the first regular
Committee meeting. Committee members are expected to attend
all regular meetings. Failure to attend two consecutive meetings
may result in removal from the Committee at the discretion of the
City Council.

E.	Committee Operations. The Citizens’ Oversight
Committee will select members to serve as Chair and Vice Chair
of the Committee. A City staff person will be appointed by the City
Manager, or the City Manager’s designee, to serve as Secretary.
The Secretary will be responsible for preparing, posting and
distributing agendas and taking minutes at each meeting.
Approved minutes shall be made available to the public.
Committee decisions, positions, findings and procedures shall
require a simple majority vote of those Committee members in
attendance. The quorum requirement for any meeting shall be a
minimum of three (3) members.

F.	Vacancies. Committee members may be removed
from the Committee only by the City Council for repeated
absences at committee meetings, malfeasance, failure to meet the
qualifications set forth in this Section, or for inability or
unwillingness to fulfill the duties of a Committee member. In the
event of removal, resignation, or death, the City Council shall
appoint a person to fill the vacant seat.

G.	Miscellaneous. Subject to the restrictions specifically
addressed in this Section, the Committee may draft and adopt its
own standard procedures and by-laws by majority vote. All
Citizens’ Oversight Committee procedures and by-laws remain
subject to review and approval of the City Council.

3.40.180	Annual Audit and Report.

A.	The revenue from the tax imposed by this Chapter shall
be subject to the annual audit performed by the City’s
independent auditor of the City’s books, records,
accounts, and fiscal procedures and which is reported
in the City’s Comprehensive Annual Financial Report.

B.	In addition to the annual audit, an Annual Review
Report shall be prepared by the City, setting forth the
amount of revenue received from the tax imposed by
this Chapter, amount of disbursements, and description
of expenditures. The purpose of the report is to assure
accountability and the proper disbursement of the
revenue from the tax imposed by this Chapter. The
Annual Review Report shall be filed in the Office of the
City Clerk not later than January 31st following the fiscal
year in which the tax is collected.

Section 2. No Mandatory Duty of Care. This ordinance is not
intended to and shall not be construed or given effect in a
manner which imposes upon the City, or any officer or employee
thereof, a mandatory duty of care towards persons or property
within the City or outside of the City so as to provide a basis of
civil liability for damages, except as otherwise imposed by law.

Section 3. Severability. If any provision of this ordinance or
the application thereof to any person or circumstance is held
invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remainder of the

S-905

SJ 024-032

ordinance and the application of such provision to other
persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby. The
City Council of the City of Lodi hereby declares that they would
have adopted each and every provision of this ordinance
regardless of the invalidity of any other provision.

Section 4. All ordinances and parts of ordinances in conflict
herewith are repealed insofar as such conflict may exist.

Section 5. Compliance with the California Environmental
Quality Act. The approval of this ordinance is exempt from the
California Environmental Quality Act (Public Resources Code
Sections 21000, et seq., “CEQA” and 14 Cal. Code of Regs.
Sections 15000 et seq., “CEQA Guidelines”). This ordinance
imposes a special sales tax that can be used for any legitimate
governmental purposes as specified in this ordinance. It is not
a commitment to any specific project that may result in a
potentially significant physical impact on the environment.

Section 6. Codification. Subject to the voter approval, the
City Clerk, in consultation with the City Attorney, is hereby
authorized and directed to codify this ordinance in the Lodi
Municipal Code.

Section 7. Effective Date. If this ordinance is approved by
two-thirds of the voters voting on the issue at the November 8,
2016 election, pursuant to Elections Code Section 9217, this
ordinance shall become effective ten (10) days after the City
Council declares the results of the election.

Section 8. Certification and Publication. The City Clerk shall
certify the final approval of this ordinance, publish the same as
required by law, and forward a certified copy of the adopted
ordinance to the State Board of Equalization.

Approved this 20th day of July, 2016

Is/ MARK CHANDLER
Mayor

ATTEST:

Is/ JENNIFER M. FERRAIOLO
City Clerk

State of California
County of San Joaquin, ss.

I,	Jennifer M. Ferraiolo, City Clerk of the City of Lodi, do hereby
certify that Ordinance No. 1926 was introduced at a regular
meeting of the City Council of the City of Lodi held July 6,
2016, and was thereafter passed, adopted, and ordered to print
at a regular meeting of said Council held July 20, 2016, by the
following vote:

AYES:	COUNCIL	MEMBERS	- Johnson, Kuehne,

Mounce, and Mayor Chandler
NOES:	COUNCIL	MEMBERS	- None

ABSENT: COUNCIL MEMBERS - Nakanishi

ABSTAIN: COUNCIL MEMBERS - None

I further certify that Ordinance No. 1926 was approved and

signed by the Mayor on the date of its passage and the same
has been published pursuant to law.

Is/ JENNIFER M. FERRAIOLO
City Clerk

Approved to Form:

/s/ JANICE D. MAGDICH
City Attorney

Exhibit 1
Public Safety Expenditure Plan

The Public Safety sales tax is estimated to generate
approximately $2,800,000 annually for a 15 year period.
Revenue will be split 64% ($1,792,000) to Police and 36%
($1,008,000) to Fire. Estimated annual expenditures for each
department are shown below.

Police (64% of additional sales tax revenue)

•	Fund up to eight (8) additional sworn officers

o Estimated cost FY 2016/17 - $1,376,072 (8 positions)

•	Fund up to two (2) part-time park rangers (sworn
positions)

o Estimated cost FY 2016/17 - $59,830 (2 positions)

•	Fund one (1) part-time Youth Outreach Coordinator
o Estimated cost FY 2016/17 - $31,509

•	Fund equipment for up to 10 sworn officers
o Estimated cost FY 2016/17 - $107,750

•	Balance of funds to be used for training of police
personnel

Fire (36% of additional sales tax revenue)

•	Increase funding for fire staffing to put downtown Engine
1 in service

o Estimated cost FY 2016/17 - $798,929

•	Balance of funds to be used for training of fire personnel
o Estimated FY 2016/17 - $209,071

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE S

PUBLIC SAFETY MEASURE
CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

Measure S seeks voter approval of a temporary one-quarter
cent (0.25%) special transactions and use tax (commonly
referred to as a “sales tax”). If approved, the one-quarter cent
sales tax would be paid in addition to the current sales tax and
be collected by the California Board of Equalization at the
same time and in the same manner as the existing sales tax.

S-906

SJ 024-033

California Revenue and Taxation Code section 7285.91
authorizes the City Council to impose a special purpose tax at
a rate of 0.125 percent or any multiple thereof, provided the tax
is approved on a 2/3 vote of all members of the City Council
and the tax is approved by 2/3 of the voters at a general
election. Special tax revenue is legally restricted to the
purposes identified in the ballot measure and cannot be re-
purposed to other City operations, programs, or service without
voter approval.

If approved, Measure S will increase the local sales tax in the
City of Lodi from the current rate of 8% to 8.25% and be in
effect from April 1, 2017 through March 31, 2032. Any
extension of the tax beyond March 31, 2032, would require
additional approval of 2/3 of the voters at a general election.

Measure S requires that the additional sales tax revenue be
spent to increase the number of police officers on staff, fund
their safety equipment, hire a part-time youth outreach worker
for gang intervention and prevention, return downtown Fire
Engine 1 to service, and provide advanced training to public
safety personnel, as specified in the expenditure plan
incorporated in the Ordinance. No tax revenue collected under
Measure S may be spent on the City’s General Fund operating
expenses or projects, or on public pension (PERS) deficits. In
the event of recession or uncontrolled expenses, Measure S
tax revenue could be used to supplement police and fire
services in excess of those that the General Fund could then
support. Measure S tax revenue is limited to supplementing
rather than replacing existing City expenditures for public
safety as set forth in the City’s 2016/2017 fiscal year budget.

The City estimates Measure S will generate $2,800,000 in
revenue annually. The measure calls for the additional tax
revenue to be deposited into a special fund and the City’s
independent auditors to annually audit the collection,
management, and expenditure of the tax revenue during their
annual audit of City finances.

Measure S also establishes a citizen’s oversight committee to
oversee expenditures of the additional tax revenue and
requires the committee meet annually to review the previous
year’s expenditure of the increased tax revenue and to provide
a report to the City Council stating how the funds were spent.

Measure S is placed on the ballot by action of the City Council
of the City of Lodi (Ordinance No. 2016-127).

Is/ Janice D. Magdich
City Attorney
City of Lodi

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE S

Lodi has long been livable and lovable because we are a tight-
knit and safe community. But our safety is increasingly at risk
due to changes in state law.

Police calls are spiking because of the State of California’s
unprecedented criminal justice experiment that puts habitual

criminals back on our streets shortly after their repeated
arrests. Police calls in Lodi increased by 2,000 from 2015 to
2016, criminal cases increased by more than 400 and arrests
increased by 145. Citizens who call 911 are waiting longer for
officers to arrive because officers have as many as 15 calls
taking priority. If Lodi is to maintain its livability we must
increase our police staffing to keep up with these challenges.

A yes vote also will ensure The Lodi Fire Department provides
residents the highest service levels. More than half the time,
the fire engine at our downtown station is browned out.
Measure S would provide the funds needed to keep the engine
in service 24 hours a day. In addition, it would restore a
depleted training budget so that firefighters can provide the
best fire and medical service to those in need, as well as better
protect our community from hazardous materials.

Measure S will hire eight street officers, two part time parks
officers, one part time gang intervention worker and fully staff
Fire Engine One at the cost of a % percent increase in the
sales tax, costing Lodi taxpayers only 2 cents on an $8 taxable
purchase. Importantly, Measure S can only be spent on
additional staffing (not a penny can go to solving the pension
crisis or pet projects) and Measure S comes with citizen
oversight.

VOTE YES for Public Safety on November 8, 2016, VOTE YES
on Measure S!

Submitted by:

/s/ John Della Monica
Is/ Mark Chandler, Mayor
Is/ Michael K. Woznick
Is/ Nathan Woods
Is/ Tracy Williams

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE S

Lack of Accountability: one reason to vote NO

The sales tax measure increases Lodi’s sales tax from 8.0% to
8.25%. It is cheaper to purchase goods in Lodi than in Stockton
where the sales tax is 9%. According to the Tax Foundation,
California has the highest sales tax in the nation. LA County
and some counties in the Bay Area are inching to 10% and
11%.

Lodi has a population of 63,000 residents and about a 10%
unemployment rate. The city has 397 employees. The city
increased salaries in 2015, 2016, and 2017. Did you receive a
salary increase in the past year? Why did the city increase
salaries when pension costs are spiraling? Lodi’s unfunded
pension debt is over $92 million.

Spiraling pensions costs leave less money to put cops on the
street. City revenues are diverted to fund yearly pension
increases.

S-907

SJ 024-034

Public Safety (Fire and Police) comprises over 60% of the city
budget. The estimated PERS (Public Employee Retirement
System) contribution for Lodi in 2016/17 alone is $9.2 million. It
then increases a million plus dollars each year. In 2017/18, it
rises to $10.2 million and in 2018/19 to $11.2 million. By
2019/20, the cost rises $1.1 million to $12.3 million. Then in
2012/22 it is estimated to rise a whopping $1.5 million to $13.4
million.

Will the city have to lay off cops and firefighters to fund the
pensions of retired employees?

A high sales tax is a regressive tax. It hurts the middle class
and people on fixed and lower incomes. It increases the cost of
goods and services.

Lack of Accountability: one reason to vote NO on Measure S.

Submitted by:

Is/ Gregory P. Goehring
Is/ Alexander S. Aliferis
Is/ Jim Shoemaker

REBUTTAL TO
ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE S

Lack of Accountability: Another reason to vote NO.

The majority of the city budget is salaries/benefits. What are
you really paying for?

What is the city not telling you? It’s appalling the city has a $92
million unfunded pension debt.

What is the guarantee that this general fund tax increase will
not be used to pay for spiraling pensions, debt, and future
salary costs? Just say No!

The Lodi Fire Chief in 2015 made $247,175.98 in total pay and
benefits. Do you make this amount? According to the
California Policy Center, the average California firefighter
makes over $200,000 per year in total pay and benefits. We
invite you to visit transparentcalifornia.com and see the
compensation packages in Lodi.

According to the California Policy Center, public safety
employees (police and fire) in California saw their total
compensation increase 20%-30% more than the rate of
inflation during the period 1991-2011.

According to transparentcalifornia.com, in 2015, over 200 Lodi
city employees, including police and fire, made over $100,000
per year in total pay and benefits.

A high sales tax is a regressive tax. It hurts the middle class,
and people on fixed and lower incomes. It increases the cost of
goods and services.

The City’s problem is not a lack of sales tax revenue but that
too much is being spent on compensation packages and
spiraling pension benefits.

Lack of Accountability: Another reason to vote NO on
Measure S.

Submitted by:

Is/ Gregory P. Goehring
Is/ Alexander S. Aliferis
Is/ Jim Shoemaker

REBUTTAL TO
ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE S

Measure S’s opponents offer no solutions to the problem they
tacitly acknowledge exists: Crime in California is on the rise
and Lodi needs more officers and Fire Engine One if we are to
maintain the level of service we have come to expect. Instead
they take exception to employee pay. But the truth is that
Lodi’s police and firefighters take home four percent less today
than they did in 2008. Police and Firefighters agreed to a nine
percent pay cut to maintain service levels during the Great
Recession. Restoring five percent of that pay cut is not a raise.

The opponents also bemoan the PERS funding crisis, but
Measure S calls for citizen oversight to ensure the money is
only spent on increasing service levels, not solving the
retirement funding crisis.

Lodi can’t solve the PERS crisis. That requires state
legislation. But we can maintain our quality of life by adding
eight street officers, two parks officers and increase our gang
intervention work. We can put engine one back in full service.
All at the cost of about $40 a year for the median Lodi
household.

Vote yes on measure S to preserve Lodi’s quality of life!

Submitted by:

Is/ Mark Chandler, Mayor

Is/ Mike Woznick, President Lodi Firefighters Assn.

Is/ John Della Monica
Is/ Tracy Williams

S-908	SJ	024-035

HELPFUL HINTS TO MAKE ELECTION DAY EASIER

Precinct officers are citizens like you. They sincerely want to make voting easy
while protecting against voter fraud. Here are some ideas to make Election
Day easier for all.

•	Polling Place locations may change at each Election. Your polling place
is listed on the back cover of this Sample Ballot booklet.

•	If you are not planning to vote by mail, check to make sure you know
where your polling place is located. If you are not sure how to find your
polling place, check a map or call (209) 468-2890 before Election Day.

•	Take this Sample Ballot booklet with you to the polls to help your
precinct officer quickly locate your name and address on the voter
roster.

•	Go to the polls prepared. Read and mark your Sample Ballot prior to
Election Day and take it with you to refer to while you are in the voting
booth. This is especially helpful with a lengthy ballot.

•	Vote both sides of your ballot. If your ballot consists of multiple cards,
make sure to vote both sides of each card of your ballot. Always return
til your ballot cards even if you choose not to vote on certain card

PLEASE SEE BACK COVER FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION INCLUDING:

1.	YOUR POLLING PLACE LOCATION (If you are not registered to vote by mail or in a Mail Ballot Precinct)

2.	APPLICATION FOR A VOTE-BY-MAIL BALLOT (If you are not already a permanent Vote-by-Mail voter)

END OF ENGLISH SAMPLE BALLOT BOOKLET

SPANISH SAMPLE BALLOT BOOKLET STARTS NEXT PAGE

If you are a first time voter, be prepared to show identification.

END

SJ 024-036

SU FOLLETO DE MUESTRA DE BOLETA EN
ESPANOL COMIENZA EN ESTA PAGINA

SUGERENCIAS UTILES PARA HACER QUE SEA MAS
FACIL EL DIA DE LA ELECCION

Los funcionarios del recinto son ciudadanos igual como usted. Elios desean
sinceramente hacer que votar sea facil, mientras al mismo tiempo proteger
contra el fraude electoral. Aqui estan algunas ideas para hacer que el dia de
las elecciones sea facil para todos.

•	Las ubicaciones de los centros de votacion pueden cambiar en cada
eleccion. Su centra de votacion se encuentra en la parte posterior de
este folleto de muestra de boleta.

•	Si usted no planea votar por correo, revise y asegurese de saber
exactamente donde queda su lugar de votacion. Si no esta seguro
sobre como encontrar su centra de votacion, consulte un mapa o Name
al (209) 468-2890 antes del dia de la eleccion.

• Lleve este folleto de muestra de boleta con usted cuando vaya a su
centra de votacion, esto le ayudara al funcionario del recinto a
encontrar rapidamente su nombre y direccion en la lista de los
votantes.

Vaya preparado a su centra de votacion. Lea y llene su muestra de
boleta antes del dia de la eleccion y llevelo con usted para consultarlo
mientras este en la cabina electoral. Esto es extremadamente util
cuando se trata de una boleta larga.

Vote ambos lados de su boleta. Si su boleta consiste de varias
tarjetas, asegurese de votar ambos lados de cada tarjeta de su boleta.
Siempre devuelva todas las tarjetas de su boleta, incluso si decide no
votar en ciertas tarjetas.

Este preparado para presentar una identificacion si es votante por
primera vez.

POR FAVOR CONSULTE LA CUBIERTA POSTERIOR PARA LA SIGUIENTE INFORMAClON:

1.	UBICACI6N DE SU LUGAR DE VOTACldN (Si no estS registrado para votar por correo o estS en un recinto sin
centra de votacidn)

2.	SOLICITUD DE BOLETA DE VOTO-POR-CORREO (Si usted no es ya un votante permanente de Voto-por-Correo)

BEGINS

SJ 024-037

CONDADO DE SAN JOAQUIN

DEPARTAMENTO DEL REGISTRO DE VOTANTES

44 NORTH SAN JOAQUIN ST., SUITE 350
P.O. BOX 810

AUSTIN G.ERDMAN	STOCKTON, CA 95201

REGISTRADOR DE LOS VOTANTES
aerdman@sjgov.org

Estimado Votante del Condado de San Joaquin:

Listed tiene la oportunidad de ejercer uno de sus derechos mas fundamentales como ciudadano de los Estados Unidos de
America, jsu derecho a votar! Como votante inscrito del Condado de San Joaquin, puede ejercitar su derecho a votar en las
proximas Elecciones Generales Presidenciales el 8 de noviembre de 2016.

Este folleto de muestra de la boleta pretende brindarle informacion electoral pertinente para ayudarlo a realizar elecciones
informadas, y asistirlo en completar su boleta - por favor, lealo atentamente. Puede hacer anotaciones en este folleto y
utilizarlo cuando esta completando su boleta electoral oficial.

DEVOLUCION DE SU BOLETA ELECTORAL

Este noviembre, su boleta se compone de dos tarjetas de votacion. Si Usted devuelve su boleta por correo utilizando

UN SOBRE DE RESPUESTA AMARILLO DE CORTESIA, NECESITARA FRANQUEO ADICIONAL PARA DEVOLVER SU BOLETA. EL SOBRE DE
RESPUESTA REQUERIRA UN FRANQUEO MINIMO DE $.68, DEBIDO AL PESO AGREGADO DEL SOBRE Y DE LAS DOS TARJETAS DE
VOTACION. Si USTED RECIBIO UN SOBRE DE RESPUESTA COMERCIAL AZUL, ENTONCES NO SE LE ASIGNO UN CENTRO ELECTORAL, Y NO SE
REQUIERE NINGUN FRANQUEO.

Si usted aun no es un votante con voto por correo permanente, y desea votar por correo, por favor, Name a la oficina del
Registro de Votantes al (209) 468-2890, presente su solicitud en linea, o complete la tarjeta al dorso de este folleto y llevela
al correo.

Cuando haya votado su boleta, por favor, firme el sobre de devolucion, aplique el franqueo correcto, y envie su boleta de
regreso a nuestra oficina. Tambien puede entregar su boleta completa, en el sobre firmado, en cualquier centro electoral en el
Condado, o en la oficina del Registro de Votantes antes de las 8:00 p.m. el Dia de las Elecciones, 8 de noviembre de 2016.
jFirme su sobre! Por ley, no podemos abrir un sobre que no este firmado y no podremos contar la boleta electoral que
esta adentro. Si usted olvida firmar su sobre, la ley tambien permite un periodo de gracia de ocho (8) dias para firmar el
sobre en la oficina del Registro de Votantes (AB477 de 2015). Ademas, se le enviara por correo una carta para informarle
de la necesidad de suministrar su firma en el sobre para que su boleta sea contada. Por favor, abra inmediatamente toda la
correspondencia que reciba de la oficina del Registro de Votantes y siga las instrucciones que se brindan en esa carta.

Otra reglamentacion, el Proyecto de Ley de la Asamblea 29, que entro en vigencia el 1° de enero de 2015, permite tres (3)
dias adicionales luego del Dia de las Elecciones para que el Registrador reciba su boleta con Voto por Correo. No obstante,
la fecha del matasellos en el sobre de devolucion de su boleta debe ser a mas tardar el Dia de las Elecciones, 8 de
noviembre de 2016.

LEY DE PRIMARIAS ABIERTAS DE LOS DOS CANDIDATOS MAS VOTADOS (PROPOSICION 14)

El 8 de junio de 2010, los votantes de California aprobaron la Proposicion 14, que requiere que los dos candidatos para los
cargos electivos para el Congreso o el Estado, que resulten ganadores en primer y segundo lugar con la mayor cantidad de
votos emitidos en las Elecciones Primarias, aparezcan en la boleta electoral de las Elecciones Generales (CE 8141.5).
Ningun otro candidato podra aparecer en la boleta de las Elecciones Generales. Por lo tanto, no hay puestos por escrito
(write-in) en la boleta para estas contiendas.

BOLETAS ELECTORALES PARA VOTANTES MILITARES Y EN EL EXTRANJERO DISPONIBLES EN LINEA

Si usted es un miembro de las fuerzas armadas o se encuentra en el extranjero, ahora puede descargar su boleta electoral del
sitio web del Registro de Votantes del Condado de San Joaquin en www.sicrov.org . Imprima y marque su boleta, y envie la
boleta votada por fax o por correo a la Oficina del Registro de Votantes del Condado de San Joaquin. Por favor, recuerde, si
bien AB29 permite tres dias adicionales para que el Registrador reciba por correo las boletas de los votantes militares y que
estan en el extranjero, estas deben tener un matasellos con una fecha que sea a mas tardar el 8 de noviembre de 2016. para
que sean contadas en las Elecciones Generales. Para mas informacion, por favor, Name al 209-468-2890, visite nuestra
oficina en 44 N. San Joaquin St., Suite 350 o vaya a nuestro sitio web en www.sjcrov.org.

Gracias por ejercer su derecho al voto. Cada voto elegible es contado - jy todos los votos cuentan!

Austin G. Erdman
Registrador de los Votantes

INSCRIPCION (209) 468-2890 - ADMINISTRACION COMERCIAL (209) 468-8942
PRESENTACION DE CANDIDATOS Y DIVULGACIONES FINANCIERAS (209) 468-8945 - OPERACIONES DEL RECINTO (209) 468-2892

TELEFONO (209) 468-2890
FAX (209) 468-2889
www.sjcrov.org

LTRS

SJ 024-038

INSTRUCCIONES PARA VOTAR

PARA LAS PERSONAS QUE VOTAN POR
CORREO

UTILICE UNA PLUMA OSCURA

Rellene el ovalo a la izquierda del nombre del candidato
que elija. Para las medidas, rellene el ovalo a la izquierda
del “SI” o “NO”.

Correcta	Incorrecta	Incorrecta
•	CD	CD

SI COMETE UN ERROR

Si comete un error en su boleta, se debe cruzar claramente
la linea entera de su eleccion involuntaria, siguiendo este
ejemplo:

9 Eleccion Involuntaria

No escriba su nombre, iniciales o hacer cualquier marcas
identificables en su boleta.

PARA DEVOLVER SU BOLETA

Coloque TODAS las tarjetas de su boleta en el sobre de
devolucion azul o amarillo que se le proporciono con su
paquete. Recuerde FIRMAR su sobre de devolucion.

Cualquier votante puede solicitar una boleta de voto
por correo. Para calificar usted debe:

•	Estar inscrito como votante en el Condado de San
Joaquin y vivir en el distrito que convoca la eleccion.

Los votantes pueden solicitar una boleta de voto por
correo de una de las siguientes maneras:

•	Por correo, fax o internet - Usted puede usar la
solicitud que se encuentra en la cubierta posterior de
este folleto y enviarla por correo o fax, o puede usar la
solicitud de nuestro sitio de web asegurado en
www.sicrov.org. La Oficina del Registro de Votantes
debe recibir su solicitud a mas tardar de las 5:00 pm
del martes, 1 de noviembre de 2016. Nuestro numero
de FAXes (209) 468-9534.

•	En persona o por telefono - La Oficina del Registro de
Votantes se encuentra en 44 N. San Joaquin Street,
Suite 350, Stockton, CA. Tel. (209) 468-2890. La
oficina esta abierta los dias laborales de 8:00 am a
5:00 pm, y el Dia de la Eleccion de 7:00 am a 8:00 pm.

INSTRUCCIONES DE COMO DEVOLVER SU
BOLETA DE VOTO-POR-CORREO

Una vez que el sobre de devolucion es firmado y su boleta es encerrada,
puede devolverlo a la Oficina del Registrador de Votantes de tres
maneras:

Por Correo - debe ser posterior sellado a mas tardar de la fecha de la
Eleccion y entregado a la Oficina del Registro de Votantes a mas tardar
3 dias habiles posteriores al dia de la eleccion.

Personalmente - en nuestra oficina ubicada en 44 N. San Joaquin
Street, Suite 350, Stockton, CA 95202. Hay un buzon disponible las 24
horas los 7 dias de la semana en frente al edificio para su comodidad.

En el Centro de Votacion - puede dejar su boleta en cualquier centra
de votacion en el Condado de San Joaquin el Dia de la Eleccion. Por
favor llame al (209) 468-2890 para mas information.

COMO VOTAR EN LAS CASILLAS

prepArese

Asegurese de llevar su boleta de muestra y su guia de votante, para saber
sus selecciones para cada contienda.

RELLENE EL OVALO

Rellene el ovalo a la izquierda de su selection que elija en cada
contienda. Rellene el ovalo totalmente.

VOTOS POR ESCRITO

Para votar por un candidato calificado por escrito, escriba el nombre de la
persona en la linea que se proporciona y rellene el ovalo a la izquierda de
la linea de voto por escrito. La lista de los Candidatos por escrito
calificados estara disponible 14 dias antes del Dia de la Eleccion en
nuestro sitio web: www.sicrov.org. No escriba su nombre. iniciales. o
hacer cualguier marcas identificables en su boleta.

TENGA CUIDADO DE NO VOTAR EN EXCESO

En cada contienda se indica el numero de candidatos para elegir. Revise
ese numero antes de marcar su eleccion. Para asegurarse de que su
voto cuente, no vote por mas candidatos de los permitidos en cada
contienda.

MEDIDAS

Vote unicamente SI o NO. Si marca los dos, su voto no contara.

SI COMETE UN ERROR

No corrija un error en su boleta. Solo entregue la boleta al funcionario del
distrito electoral y pida otra. El funcionario del distrito electoral puede
proveerle, segun sea necesario, con hasta tres boletas de reemplazo.

PARA EMITIR SU BOLETA

Coloque TODAS las tarjetas de su boleta en la urna electoral asegurada.
Una vez que la haya colocado en la urna electoral, usted no puede recibir
una boleta de remplazo.

Si usted tiene alguna pregunta relacionada con la
Votacion por Correo, llame al (209) 468-2890, o envie un fax
al (209) 468-9534 o visite nuestro sitio web
www.sicrov.org.

^Tiene preguntas sobre como votar su boleta?

Pregunte al funcionario del distrito electoral o comuniquese con la
Oficina del Registro de Votantes al: (209) 468-2890

vis

SJ 024-039

★ ^ ★

VOTANTES MILITARES Y EN EL EXTRANJERO

Ahora pueden acceder a su boleta de votante en el sitio Web

Simplemente envie una Solicitud de Tarjeta Postal Federal (FPCA) disponible en
www.FVAP.gov o en cualquier embajada o consulado e indique que usted desea recibir
su boleta de votante por internet (Casilla 6).

Todo ciudadano estadounidense que sea un miembro de los
Servicios Uniformados, o los Marinos Mercantes (en servicio
activo) y sus dependientes elegibles o los ciudadanos
estadounidenses que residan fuera de los Estados Unidos
pueden solicitar su boleta de votante por internet.

;Su boleta a su alcance en cualquier parte del mundo!

INSTRUCCIONES PARA LOS ELECTORES DISCAPACITADOS EN
LAS CASILLAS DE VOTACION

Los electores discapacitados que deseen utilizar la maquina de votacion con
pantalla tactil en las casillas de votacion se les entregara una tarjeta de elector
despues de haber firmado el registro. Para recibir instrucciones detalladas sobre
el uso de la maquina con pantalla tactil y comenzar el proceso de votacion, sigue
estas instrucciones sencillas:

Introduzca la tarjeta electoral en la ranura en la parte de arriba a mano derecha de
la pantalla. Empuje la tarjeta firmemente hasta que haga “clic”.

La pantalla siguiente le permite ampliar la imagen y ajustar el contraste para que
sea mas facil de leer.

Escuche con cuidado las instrucciones en como emitir su voto mediante la interfaz
de teclado numerico y audio o utilizando la interfaz de pantalla tactil.

USTED PUEDE PEDIR A UN TRABAJADOR ELECTORAL AYUDA SI ES NECESARIO

INFORMACION UTIL

Por favor seleccione la boleta de muestra de su partido de las paginas siguientes.

Para ver su boleta en texto mas grande, visite nuestro sitio web: www.sicrov.org

UOCAVAS

SJ 024-040

LEY “AYUDA A AMERICA A VOTAR”

(HAVA)

Hay regulaciones federales sobre la inscription del votante que pueden afectarle a usted.

La ley federal exige que toda persona que se inscriba para votar, ya sea la primera vez o una
^inscription, debe presentar una licencia de conducir de California o un numero de
identification del Estado de California en su formulario de inscription de votante. Si usted
nunca ha tenido una licencia de conducir o tarjeta de identification de California, debe
proporcionar las cuatro ultimas cifras de su numero de Seguro Social en su formulario de
inscription.

Todas las inscripciones se mandan a la oficina del Secretario de Estado para verificar la
information de cada votante. Si usted no proporciona este numero de identification, su
inscription de votante pasara automaticamente a la condition de persona no inscrita. Su
nombre no aparecera en la lista en su centra de votacion.

Si esta information no consta en su formulario de inscription, se le pedira por correo o por
telefono que proporcione toda la information necesaria. Una vez que recibamos la information
correcta, se presentara de nuevo la tarjeta de inscription en la oficina del Secretario de Estado
para su verification.

Si usted tiene alguna pregunta sobre la condition de su inscription de votante, puede visitar el
sitio web de la oficina del Registro de Votantes en www.sicrov.org y seguir los enlaces que
muestran nuestras nuevas paginas de busqueda para los votantes. Tambien puede llamar a
nuestra oficina al (209) 468-2890.

RECUERDA



Su boleta consiste de dos tarjetas:

>	Asegurase de votar ambos lados de cada
tarjeta de su boleta.

>	Devuelva las dos tarjetas de su boleta, incluso
si decide no votar sobre una de las tarjetas.

BOLETA DE ^
MUESTRA A

HAVAS

SJ 024-041

BOLETA OFICIAL

CONDADO DE SAN JOAQUIN, CALIFORNIA
ELECCION GENERAL PRESIDENCIAL
8 DE NOVIEMBRE DE 2016

INSTRUCCIONES PARA LOS VOTANTES:

1.	Para votar, usted debe oscurecer completamente el ovalo	que esta al lado del candidato o de la medida de su eleccion.

NO escriba el nombre del candidato si este ya aparece en la boleta electoral.

2.	Si marca el ovalo equivocado, independientemente de la forma o el tamano de su marca, cambie su boleta por una nueva si usted

esta en el centro electoral. No obstante, si esta votando por correo, debe dibujar claramente una linea que tache su opcion
involuntaria. •n...........  1

3.	Si usted arruina o dana su boleta electoral, Name a nuestra oficina para obtener una de reemplazo.

4.	Todas las marcas distintivas tales como el nombre, las iniciales, la firma, el SSN, etc. del votante estan prohibidas en la boleta
real.

5.	Para votar por una persona calificada cuyo nombre no este en la boleta electoral y que se ha presentado como un candidato por
escrito (write-in), oscurezca completamente el ovalo que esta al lado del renglon para write-in, Y escriba el nombre calificado para
esa contienda.

VOTE DE ESTA MANERA:

Cargos nominados por los partidos

La etiqueta del partido que acompana al nombre de un candidato para
un puesto nominado por el partido en la boleta de las elecciones
generales significa que el candidato es el nominado oficial del partido
mostrado.

PRESIDENTE DE ESTADOS UNIDOS

PRESIDENTE Y VICEPRESIDENTE

Vote por uno partido

O DONALD J. TRUMP

MICHAEL R. PENCE

OGARY JOHNSON

BILL WELD

O JILL STEIN

AJAMU BARAKA

O HILLARY CLINTON

TIM KAINE

o gloria estela la RIVA

DENNIS J. BANKS

o-------------------------------

REP, Al

LIB

GRN

DEM

PF

Cargos nominados por los votantes y no partidarios

Todos los votantes, sin importar la preferencia por partido que hayan
revelado al inscribirse, o su negativa de revelar una preferencia por
partido, pueden votar por cualquier candidato a un cargo nominado por
los votantes o no partidario. La preferencia por partido, si la hubiera,
designada por un candidato a un cargo nominado por los votantes, es
seleccionada por el candidato y se muestra solo para la informacion de
los votantes. No implica que el candidato este nominado ni ratificado
por el partido ni que el partido apruebe al candidato. La preferencia por
partido, si la hubiera, de un candidato por un cargo no partidario, no
aparece en la boleta electoral.

SENADOR DE ESTADOS UNIDOS

SENADOR DE ESTADOS UNIDOS
Vote por uno

O

O

LORETTA L. SANCHEZ

Congresista de Estados Unidos

KAMALA D. HARRIS

Procuradora General de California

Preferencia Partidaria: DEM

Preferencia Partidaria: DEM

REPRESENTANTE DE ESTADOS UNIDOS

REPRESENTANTE DE ESTADOS UNIDOS
DISTRITO DEL CONGRESO 9
Vote por uno

O

O

ANTONIO C. “TONY” AMADOR

Alguacil de EE.UU. Jubilado

JERRY MCNERNEY

Congresista____________________

Preferencia Partidaria: REP

Preferencia Partidaria: DEM

SENADOR ESTATAL

SENADOR DEL ESTADO
DISTRITO 5
Vote por uno

O

O

CATHLEEN GALGIANI

Legisladora/Comisionada del Delta

ALAN NAKANISHI

Medico/Empresario__________

Preferencia Partidaria: DEM
Preferencia Partidaria: REP

MIEMBRO DE LA ASAMBLEA ESTATAL

MIEMBRO DE LA ASAMBLEA ESTATAL
DISTRITO 9
Vote por uno

O

O

JIM COOPER

Miembro de la Asamblea

TIM GORSULOWSKY

Consultor de Seguridad Empresarial

Preferencia Partidaria: DEM
Preferencia Partidaria: REP

ESCUELA

O

o

o

o

COLEGIO COMUNITARIO DE
SAN JOAQUIN DELTA
MIEMBRO DE LA JUNTA DIRECTIVA
AREA DE FIDEICOMISARIOS N° 1
Vote por uno
C. JENNET STEBBINS

Fideicomisaria de Delta College

ROBERT L. DURAN

Estudiante Universitario

LEJAMES DILLION-MELTON

Cuidador/Empleado de SJDC

COLEGIO COMUNITARIO DE
SAN JOAQUIN DELTA
MIEMBRO DE LA JUNTA DIRECTIVA
AREA DE FIDEICOMISARIOS N° 2
Vote por uno

qCARLOS A. HUERTA

O

o-

Educador

CLAUDIA Y.

Titular

MORENO-RABAGO

COLEGIO COMUNITARIO DE
SAN JOAQUIN DELTA
MIEMBRO DE LA JUNTA DIRECTIVA
AREA DE FIDEICOMISARIOS N° 6
Vote por uno

o......

Titular

o-----

JUAN ENSASTEGUI LOPEZ

Agente Inmobiliario/Preparador de Declaraciones de Impuestos

TERESA R. BROWN

TARJETA 1 DE 2 - VOTE AMBOS LADOS

^

MUESTRA DE BOLETA

MEDIDAS SOMETIDAS
A LOS VOTANTES

_______________________ESTADO_______________________

PROPUESTA 51. BONOS ESCOLARES. FINANCIAMIENTO PARA
INSTALACIONES DE ESCUELAS K-12 Y COLEGIOS
COMUNITARIOS. LEY POR INICIATIVA. Autoriza $9 mil millones en
bonos de obligation general para la nueva construction y
modernization de las instalaciones de escuelas publicas K-12, las
instalaciones de escuelas autonomas subsidiadas por el gobierno y de
education vocacional, y las instalaciones de colegios comunitarios de
California. Impacto fiscal: costos del estado de aproximadamente
$17.6 mil millones para liquidar tanto el capital ($9 mil millones) como
los intereses ($8.6 mil millones) de los bonos. Pagos de
aproximadamente $500 millones al ano durante 35 anos.

o sf	oN0

PROPUESTA 52. PROGRAMA DE TARIFAS HOSPITALARIAS DE
MEDI-CAL. ENMIENDA CONSTITUCIONAL Y LEY POR
INICIATIVA. Extiende indefinidamente una ley existente que impone
tarifas a los hospitales para financiar los servicios de atencion medica
de Medi-Cal, la atencion para pacientes no asegurados y la cobertura
de salud infantil. Impacto fiscal: consecuencia fiscal incierta, que
oscila entre un impacto relativamente pequeno y ahorros anuales del
Fondo General estatal de aproximadamente $1 mil millones y mayor
financiamiento para hospitales publicos en unos cientos de millones de
dolares cada afio.

osf	oN0

PROPUESTA 53. BONOS DE INGRESO. APROBACION DE LOS
VOTANTES A NIVEL ESTATAL. ENMIENDA CONSTITUCIONAL
POR INICIATIVA. Requiere la aprobacion de los votantes a nivel
estatal antes de que el estado pueda emitir o vender cualquier bono
de ingreso para ciertos proyectos, si el monto del bono excede $2 mil
millones. Impacto fiscal: se desconocen las consecuencias fiscales
locales y estatales, y dependerian del proyecto al que afecte esta
iniciativa de ley y de las acciones que tomen los organismos
gubernamentales y los votantes en respuesta al requisito de voto de la
iniciativa de ley.

oSl______________________________________________

PROPUESTA 54. LEGISLATURA. LEGISLACION Y
PROCEDIMIENTOS. ENMIENDA CONSTITUCIONAL Y LEY POR
INICIATIVA. Prohlbe que la legislatura apruebe cualquier proyecto de
ley a menos que se publique en Internet 72 horas antes del voto.

Exige que la legislatura grabe sus procedimientos y los publique en
Internet. Autoriza el uso de grabaciones. Impacto fiscal: costos
unicos de $1 millon a $2 millones y costos corrientes de
aproximadamente $1 millon al ano para grabar las reuniones
legislativas y publicar esos videos para que esten disponibles en
Internet.

osf

0N°

TARJETA 1 DE 2 - VOTE AMBOS LADOS

BOLETA OFICIAL

CONDADO DE SAN JOAQUIN, CALIFORNIA
ELECCION GENERAL PRESIDENCIAL
8 DE NOVIEMBRE DE 2016

ESTADO

PROPUESTA 55. EXTENSION DE IMPUESTOS PARA FINANCIAR
LA EDUCACION Y LA ATENCION MEDICA. ENMIENDA
CONSTITUCIONAL POR INICIATIVA. Extiende doce anos el
aumento temporal del impuesto sobre los ingresos personales
promulgado en 2012 para los salarios mayores a $250,000; los
ingresos se asignaran a escuelas K-12, universidades comunitarias de
California y, ciertos anos, a la atencion medica. Impacto fiscal:
aumento del ingreso estatal, de $4 mil millones a $9 mil millones al
ano, de 2019 a 2030, dependiendo de la economia y del mercado de
valores. Mayor financiamiento para escuelas, universidades
comunitarias y atencion medica para gente con bajos ingresos,
reservas presupuestarias y pago de deudas.

o Sl	oN0

PROPUESTA 56. IMPUESTO A LOS CIGARROS PARA FINANCIAR
LA ATENCION MEDICA, LA PREVENCION DEL USO DE TABACO,
LA INVESTIGACION Y LA APLICACION DE LA LEY. ENMIENDA
CONSTITUCIONAL Y LEY POR INICIATIVA. Aumenta el impuesto a
los cigarros en $2.00 por cajetilla, con un aumento equivalente en
otros productos de tabaco y cigarros electronicos que contienen
nicotina. Impacto fiscal: ingreso adicional neto estatal de $1 mil
millones a $1.4 mil millones de 2017 a 2018, con ingresos
potencialmente mas bajos en anos futuros. Los ingresos se usaran
principalmente para aumentar el gasto en atencion medica para los
habitantes de bajos recursos de California.

o

si

o

NO

PROPUESTA 57. SENTENCIAS PENALES. LIBERTAD
CONDICIONAL. PROCESOS Y SENTENCIAS PENALES DE
DELINCUENCIA DE MENORES. ENMIENDA CONSTITUCIONAL Y
LEY POR INICIATIVA. Permite la consideracion de libertad
condicional para criminales no violentos. Autoriza abonos de tiempo
de sentencia por rehabilitacion, buena conducta y educacion. Otorga
al juez del tribunal de menores la decision de procesar al menor como
si fuera un adulto. Impacto fiscal: ahorros netos estatales que
probablemente seran de decenas de millones de dolares cada ano,
dependiendo de la implementacion. Costos netos del condado que
probablemente seran de algunos millones de dolares al ano.

o

si

o

NO

PROPUESTA 58. DOMINIO DEL INGLES. EDUCACION
MULTILINGUE. LEY POR INICIATIVA. Mantiene el requisito de que
las escuelas publicas garanticen que los estudiantes dominen el
idioma ingles. Exige que los distritos escolares soliciten la
participacion de los padres y de la comunidad para desarrollar
programas de adquisicion del idioma. Exige el adiestramiento para
garantizar que la adquisicion del ingles sea lo mas rapida y eficiente
posible. Autoriza a los distritos escolares a establecer programas
bilingues de inmersion para hablantes nativos y no nativos del ingles.
Impacto fiscal: no hay ningun efecto fiscal importante en los distritos
escolares ni en el gobierno estatal.

o

si

o

NO

PROPUESTA 59. CORPORACIONES. GASTO POLITICO.
PROTECCIONES CONSTITUCIONALES FEDERALES. PREGUNTA
CONSULTIVA LEGISLATIVA. Pregunta si los funcionarios electos de
California deberlan usar su autoridad para proponer y ratificar una
enmienda a la Constitucion federal para anular la decision de la Corte
Suprema de Estados Unidos sobre Citizens United v. Federal Election
Commission. Citizens United dictamino que las leyes que limitan de
cierta manera el gasto politico de las corporaciones y los sindicatos
son anticonstitucionales. Impacto fiscal: no hay ningun efecto fiscal
directo sobre los gobiernos estatal o locales.

^Usaran los funcionarios electos de California toda su autoridad
constitucional, incluidos, entre otros, proponer y ratificar una o mas
enmiendas a la Constitucion de Estados Unidos para anular el caso
558 U.S. 310 de Citizens United vs. Comision Federal Electoral
(Federal Election Commission) (2010) y otros precedentes judiciales
aplicables para permitir la total regulacion o limitacion de
contribuciones de campana y gastos, para asegurar que todos los
ciudadanos, independientemente del nivel de riqueza, puedan
expresar sus opiniones los unos a los otros y dejar claro que las
corporaciones no deberlan de tener los mismos derechos
constitucionales que los seres humanos?

o

si

o

NO

PROPUESTA 60. PELICULAS PARA ADULTOS. CONDONES.
REQUISITOS DE SALUD. LEY POR INICIATIVA. Exige que los
actores de pellculas para adultos usen condones durante la filmacion
de las relaciones sexuales. Exige que los productores paguen las
vacunas, las pruebas y los examenes medicos de los actores. Exige
que los productores anuncien en las locaciones de las pellculas el
requisito del uso del condon. Impacto fiscal: probable reduccion de
varios millones de dolares en la recaudacion tributaria local y estatal al
ano. Mayor gasto estatal que podrla exceder $1 millon al ano en
reglamentacion, compensado parcialmente con nuevas tarifas.

o

si

o

NO

PROPUESTA 61. COMPRAS ESTATALES DE MEDICAMENTOS
RECETADOS. ESTANDARES DE TARIFICACION. LEY POR
INICIATIVA. Prohlbe al estado comprar medicamentos recetados a
un fabricante de medicamentos a un precio mayor que el precio mas
bajo que el Departamento de Asuntos de Veteranos de Estados
Unidos paga por el medicamento. Excluye los programas de atencion
administrada financiados por medio de Medi-Cal. Impacto fiscal:
posibles ahorros estatales de un monto desconocido, dependiendo de
(1) como se procesen las impugnaciones de implementacion de la
iniciativa de ley y de (2) las respuestas de los fabricantes de
medicamentos respecto a la disposition y el precio de sus
medicamentos.

o

si

o

NO

PROPUESTA 62. PENA DE MUERTE. LEY POR INICIATIVA.

Deroga la pena de muerte y la reemplaza por cadena perpetua sin
posibilidad de libertad condicional. Se aplica de manera retroactiva a
las sentencias de muerte existentes. Aumenta la portion de sueldos
de manutencion de los presos que se pueden aplicar a la
indemnizacion de la vlctima. Impacto fiscal: reduccion neta continua
de los costos de justicia penal estatal y de los condados de
aproximadamente $150 millones anuales en unos cuantos anos,
aunque el impacto podrla variar en decenas de millones de dolares,
dependiendo de varios factores.

o

si

o

NO

PROPUESTA 63. ARMAS DE FUEGO. VENTA DE MUNICIONES.
LEY POR INICIATIVA. Exige una verificacion de antecedentes y la
autorizacion del Departamento de Justicia para comprar municiones.
Prohibe la posesion de cargadores de municiones de gran capacidad.
Establece procedimientos para hacer cumplir las leyes que prohlben
que personas especlficas posean armas de fuego. Exige la
participacion del Departamento de Justicia en el Sistema Nacional de
Verificacion Instantanea de Antecedentes Penales. Impacto fiscal:
mayores costos de los tribunales estatal y locales, y de aplicacion de
la ley, probablemente en decenas de millones de dolares al ano,
relacionados con nuevos procesos judiciales para retirar las armas de
fuego a personas prohibidas despues de ser condenadas.

o

si

O

NO

TARJETA 2 DE 2 - VOTE AMBOS LADOS

PROPUESTA 64. LEGALIZACION DE LA MARIHUANA. LEY POR
INICIATIVA. Legaliza la marihuana segun la ley estatal, para ser
usada por adultos de 21 anos o mayores. Impone impuestos estatales
sobre la venta y el cultivo. Estipula la autorizacion industrial y
establece los estandares para los productos de marihuana. Permite la
reglamentacion yfiscalidad local. Impacto fiscal: recaudacion
tributaria adicional que oscila entre varios cientos de millones de
dolares y mas de $1 mil millones al ano, principalmente dedicados
para fines especificos. Reduccion de costos de justicia penal en
decenas de millones de dolares al ano.

o

si

o

NO

PROPUESTA 65. BOLSAS PARA LLEVAR. CARGOS. LEY POR
INICIATIVA. Canaliza el dinero recolectado por las tiendas de
abarrotes y ciertos comercios minoristas a traves de la venta por
mandato de bolsas para llevar. Exige que las tiendas depositen los
ingresos de la venta de bolsas en un fondo especial para apoyar
proyectos ecologicos especificos. I mpacto fiscal: ingresos estatales
potenciales de varias decenas de millones de dolares al ano bajo
ciertas circunstancias; el dinero se usara para apoyar ciertos
programas ecologicos.

o

si

o

NO

PROPUESTA 66. PENA DE MUERTE. PROCEDIMIENTOS. LEY
POR INICIATIVA. Cambia los procedimientos que rigen las
impugnaciones de los tribunales estatales sobre la pena de muerte.
Designa a la corte superior para las peticiones iniciales y limita las
peticiones sucesivas. Exige que los abogados designados que toman
apelaciones no punibles de pena capital, acepten apelaciones de pena
de muerte. Exenta a funcionarios penitenciarios de los procesos de
reglamentacion existentes para desarrollar metodos de ejecucion.
Impacto fiscal: impacto continuo desconocido en los costos de
tribunales estatales por el procesamiento de impugnaciones legales en
penas de muerte. Ahorros potenciales de prision de decenas de
millones de dolares al ano.

o

si

o

NO

PROPUESTA 67. PROHIBICION DE BOLSAS DE PLASTICO DE
USO UNICO. REFERENDO. Un voto “Si” aprueba y un voto “No”
rechaza un estatuto que prohibe que las tiendas de abarrotes y otras
tiendas ofrezcan a los clientes bolsas de papel o de plastico de uso
unico para llevar, pero permite la venta de bolsas de papel reciclado y
de bolsas reutilizables. Impacto fiscal: impactos fiscales
relativamente bajos en los gobiernos estatal y locales, incluido un
aumento menor en los costos administrativos estatales y posibles
ahorros menores del gobierno local debido a la reduccion en los
costos de gestion de basura y desechos.

o

si

o

NO

ESCUELA

MEDIDA U

Medida de Reoaraciones de Escuelas Locales/Sequridad Estudiantil.
Para reparar y mejorar las aulas obsoletas en las escuelas locales
para preparar a los alumnos para la universidad y las cameras,
retener/atraer docentes de calidad y mejorar la salud/seguridad de los
alumnos retirando el moho/asbesto/pintura con plomo, reparando los
techos con goteras, actualizando las aulas y
adquiriendo/construyendo/ modernizando los
sitios/instalaciones/equipamientos, ^debera el Distrito Escolar
Unificado de Lodi emitir $281,000,000 de bonos a tasas de interes
legales, con supervision ciudadana, auditorias anuales, sin destinar
dinero para los salarios/pensiones de los administradores y
conservando todos los fondos a nivel local?

o

BONOS SI

O

BONOS NO

CIUDAD

MEDIDA R

^Debera la Ciudad de Lodi reemplazar los patios de juegos obsoletos,
reparar la ribera erosionada de Lodi Lake, reparar y ampliar los
sistemas de senderos de los parques, reemplazar los banos y
bebederos de los parques, y mejorar los estacionamientos de los
parques, las calzadas, el paisajismo y la infraestructura, aprobando un
impuesto al uso de bienes y las transacciones (“ventas”) de un octavo
de centavo por dolar (0.125%), que se estima que recaudara
$1,400,000 anualmente, con vencimiento en quince (15) anos,
aplicando todos los ingresos exclusivamente a estos propositos
especificos, sujetos a la supervision ciudadana y una auditoria anual?

oSl	oNO

MEDIDA S

^Debera la Ciudad de Lodi combatir el delito y aumentar los
programas para reducir la violencia de las pandillas contratando
policias adicionales y un interventor de pandillas, restablecer el
servicio del Camion de Bomberos 1 del centra urbano y aumentar el
entrenamiento, mediante la aprobacion de un impuesto al uso de
bienes y las transacciones (“ventas”) de un cuarto de centavo por
dolar (0.25%), que se estima que recaudara $2,800,000 al ano, con el
64% para policia, 36% para bomberos, con vencimiento en 15 anos,
todos los ingresos aplicados exclusivamente a estos propositos
especificos, sujeto a la supervision ciudadana y auditorias anuales?

o Sl'	oNO

TARJETA 2 DE 2 - VOTE AMBOS LADOS

ENDORSES

Aprobacion del Partido para los Cargos Nominados por los Votantes

De conformidad con el Codigo Electoral § 13302(b), cualquier partido politico calificado podra presentar al
funcionario electoral del condado una lista de todos los candidatos de los cargos electorales designados por los
votantes que aparecera en cualquier boleta electoral del condado, y que han sido aprobadas por el partido.

	Partido Democrata del Estado de California	Partido Republicano del Condado de San Joaquin	Partido Republicano del Estado de California
SENADOR DE ESTADOS UNIDOS	KAMALA D. HARRIS	Ninguno	Ninguno
REPRESENTANTE DE ESTADOS UNIDOS DISTRITO DEL CONGRESO 9	JERRY MCNERNEY	ANTONIO C. “TONY” AMADOR	ANTONIO C. “TONY” AMADOR
REPRESENTANTE DE ESTADOS UNIDOS DISTRITO DEL CONGRESO 10	MICHAEL EGGMAN	JEFF DENHAM	JEFF DENHAM
SENADOR DEL ESTADO DISTRITO 5	CATHLEEN GALGIANI	ALAN NAKANISHI	ALAN NAKANISHI
MIEMBRO DE LA ASAMBLEA ESTATAL DISTRITO 9	JIM COOPER	TIM GORSULOWSKY	TIM GORSULOWSKY
MIEMBRO DE LA ASAMBLEA ESTATAL DISTRITO 12	Ninguno	KEN VOGEL	KEN VOGEL
MIEMBRO DE LA ASAMBLEA ESTATAL DISTRITO 13	SUSAN TALAMANTES EGGMAN	Ninguno	Ninguno

SJ 024-046

CANDIDATOS A LA LEGISLATURA ESTATAL QUE HAN
ACEPTADO LIMITES VOLUNTARIOS DE GASTOS

De conformidad con el Codigo 85600 del Gobierno de California, los siguientes
Candidatos a la Legislatura Estatal han aceptado limites voluntarios de gastos y reunen
los requisitos para presentar una declaracion de candidato en el Folleto de Informacion
del Votante, escrito exactamente como fue sometido, sufragando sus propios gastos,
son los siguientes:

ASAMBLEA ESTATAL, DISTRITO 9

JIM COOPER - Democrata
TIM GORSULOWSKY - Republican

ASAMBLEA ESTATAL. DISTRITO 12

KEN VOGEL - Republicano
HEATH FLORA - Republicano

ASAMBLEA ESTATAL. DISTRITO 13

KEVIN J. LINCOLN, II-Republicano
SUSAN TALAMANTES EGGMAN - Democrata

FOLLETO DEL VOTANTE

Las siguientes paginas contienen informacion para el votante que corresponde a su boleta
para votar, la que podria incluir alguno o todos de los siguientes elementos:

•	Declaraciones de los candidatos

•	Medidas incluidas en la boleta de voto

•	Analisis Imparcial

•	Declaracion(s) de tasa de impuesto

•	Argumentos a favor y en contra

•	Texto de la(s) medida(s)

Es posible que este folleto no incluya una lista completa de los candidatos. Encontrara una lista
completa de los candidatos en la Balota de Muestra. Cada declaracion del candidato en este
folleto es presentada voluntariamente por el candidato y se imprime a cargo de dicho candidato a
no ser que la junta directiva determine lo contrario. (EC §13312)(a)(b)

POR FAVOR CONSULTE LA GUIA DE INFORMACION PARA EL VOTANTE DEL ESTADO PARA
OBTENER INFORMACION ACERCA DE LOS CANDIDATOS DEL ESTADO.

CADA DECLARACION DE UN CANDIDATO SOBRE SU CAPACITACION SE IMPRIME EXACTAMENTE

TAL Y COMO LA SOMETIO EL CANDIDATO.

Los argumentos a favor o en contra de las leyes propuestas son las opiniones de los autores.

(EC §9315)

SPENDS

SJ 024-047

DECLARACION DEL CANDIDATO A
REPRESENTANTE DE EE. UU. EN EL CONGRESO, DISTRITO 9

ANTONIO C. “TONY” AMADOR

Ocupacion: Agente de la Polida Federal (United States Marshal) - Retirado

Mi education y calificaciones son: El gobierno esta alejado de, e indiferente
a, los intereses de la persona promedio. El titular parece mas interesado en
proteger su propio poder que en hacer lo correcto para los estadounidenses.
Los “Intereses Especiales’ han manipulado el sistema politico para ellos
mismos. Las elites corporativas quieren mano de obra economica que envie
los empleos norteamericanos al extranjero y explote a los trabajadores
inmigrantes con bajos salarios en el pais. Me opongo a los acuerdos
comerciales que alejan a nuestros empleos locales.

Desde que el titular ha estado en el cargo, el Condado de San Joaquin y la
ciudad de Stockton, han experimentado uno de los indices de desempleo mas
altos del estado. El delito se ha disparado, las granjas se estan quedando sin
agua y los impuestos y las deudas son los mas altos en el pais. Las causas
son politicas deficientes apoyadas por un congresista que no hace nada.

Otro ejemplo de la falta de su ineficacia es el incumplimiento de cuidar a
nuestros veteranos. Los veteranos en el 9° Distrito Electoral merecen un
representante efectivo que pueda cumplir los objetivos. Mis anos de
experiencia en el gobierno a nivel local, estatal y federal hacen que mi
candidatura funcione para todos. Como ex Marshal de los Estados Unidos,
entiendo el significado de tomar decisiones dificiles. Luchare por un plan de
inmigracion factible que no incluya amnistia general.

Me opongo a los proyectos de los ‘tuneles gemelos’ y el ‘ferrocarril de alta
velocidad’. Desperdician el dinero de los contribuyentes. El titular toma
posiciones de ambas partes en estas cuestiones. El Valle Central necesita un
lider que repare nuestro malestar economico y necesidades de agua de largo
plazo. No hay esperanza sin cambio. Vote por Amador. Vote por el cambio

DECLARACION DEL CANDIDATO A
REPRESENTANTE DE EE. UU. EN EL CONGRESO, DISTRITO 9

JERRY MCNERNEY
Ocupacion: Congresista

Mi education y calificaciones son: Mi prioridad principal es luchar por
nuestra comunidad.

Como ex propietario de un pequeno negocio con tres hijos, conozco los
desafios que se presentan para mantener a una familia. Necesitamos empleos
bien remunerados para que la gente vuelva a trabajar. Es por eso que
introduje proyectos de ley para ampliar los pequenos negocios y cerrar las
brechas que permiten a las corporaciones enviar los empleos al extranjero.

Soy un feroz protector del Delta y de los agricultores, los negocios y las
familias que dependen de el. Luche contra el plan propuesto de los tuneles
que perjudicaria a nuestra region y ofreci soluciones que nos lleven a un
futuro de agua sostenible.

Mi inspiracion para prestar servicios en el Congreso proviene del servicio
militar de mi hijo Michael despues del 9/11. Estoy decidido a asegurar que
nuestros veteranos tengan acceso a los beneficios que se han ganado. Estoy
orgulloso de que mis esfuerzos daran como resultado una nueva clinica
medica de VA en el Condado de San Joaquin que creara empleos locales en
toda nuestra region. Tambien redacte una ley que mejora la atencion para los
veteranos que sufren de lesiones cerebrales traumaticas.

Nuestra comunidad es mas fuerte cuando las familias viven en vecindarios
seguros. He asegurado el dinero para que nuestros departamentos de polida
locales contraten agentes, y apoye la capacitacion laboral y los programas de
education para ayudar a mantener a nuestros jovenes lejos de las calles.

Busco la reeleccion para lograr objetivos. He entregado resultados que
fortalecen a las familias de clase media, mantienen a nuestra nation segura,
protegen a los ciudadanos mayores y Medicare, y aseguran un medio
ambiente limpio para las generaciones futuras, y le pido su apoyo para seguir
trabajando para usted.

39-1S

SJ 024-048

DECLARACION DEL CANDIDATO A MIEMBRO DE LA ASAMBLEA ESTATAL, DISTRITO 9  TIM GORSULOWSKY Ocupacion: Propietario de un Negocio  Mi educacion y calificaciones son: Mi prioridad numero uno, como su Asambleista, sera hacerles frente a los politicos de Sacramento y a los intereses especiales ventajeros que nos han ignorado.  Como pequeno empresario independiente, he experimentado el duro golpe de las reglamentaciones que aniquilan los empleos. Como miembro del Comite Asesor de Discapacidad de Elk Grove, he sido testigo de como las necesidades de nuestro distrito no estan siendo satisfechas por el Gobierno del Estado.  Estoy orgulloso de tener el aval de la Asociacion de Contribuyentes Howard Jarvis y me opondre a todos los aumentos de impuestos. Tambien luchare para acabar con el despilfarro del ferrocarril de alta velocidad del Gobernador Brown con su actual precio de $68 mil millones, casi $1,700 por cada persona en California o $6,800 porfamilia de cuatro.  Hace mas de dos decadas funde una empresa de servicios de seguridad que atiende a clientes en toda California del Norte. Mi empresa ha crecido hasta llegar a ser una operation prospera con mas de 160 empleados. Tengo mas de 25 anos de experiencia en la creation de empleos y trabajare duro para asegurar que nuestro distrito tenga mayores oportunidades para tener empleos mejor remunerados.  He tenido el placer de ser mentor en programas como Health TECH Academy de la Escuela Secundaria Valley, un programa que inspira a los alumnos a perseguir cameras en atencion de la salud. Trabajare para reformar nuestro sistema de educacion para que todos los alumnos tengan acceso a los programas de Educacion Tecnica Profesional continua (CTE) y vocacionales.  Estoy agradecido de ser parte de esta comunidad, me sentiria honrado de representarlo en Sacramento. Me sentiria honrado de tener su voto. Gracias.  www.gorsulowskyforassembly.com	
	

DECLARACION DEL CANDIDATO A
MIEMBRO DE LA JUNTA DIRECTIVA, AREA DE FIDEICOMISARIOS N° 2
DISTRITO DE COLEGIOS COMUNITARIOS DE SAN JOAQUIN DELTA

CARLOS A. HUERTA
Ocupacion: Educador

Mi education y calificaciones son: Como su Fideicomisario de San Joaquin
Delta College, sere su voz para un mejor futuro para nuestros alumnos y la
comunidad. El desarrollo comercial en nuestras comunidades depende de que
Delta College prepare a los alumnos en los programas de transferencia y
vocacionales que estan a la par de las necesidades de las oportunidades
laborales actuales.

Como su defensor, trabajare para brindar programas que sean mas relevantes
y accesibles, preparando a los alumnos para ingresar a la fuerza laboral listos
para su empleo. Trabajare para ver que Delta College mantenga sus
promesas y atienda a todos los alumnos. Debemos desarrollar habilidades
para la vida en los alumnos, tales como la honestidad, el trabajo duro y la
puntualidad- las habilidades que los negocios demandan, la experiencia que
los alumnos necesitan, la capacitacion que un mercado global del Siglo XXI
requiere.

Como educador local que se graduo en Delta College proveniente de una
familia de bajos ingresos, personalmente se lo vital que es Delta College para
nuestro bienestar economico y social. Vote por mi, y hare absolutamente todo
lo que pueda para asegurar que las decisiones representen su voz en el
mayor beneficio de todos los alumnos.

DECLARACION DE LACANDIDATAA
MIEMBRA DE LA JUNTA DIRECTIVA, AREA DE FIDEICOMISARIOS N° 2
DISTRITO DE COLEGIOS COMUNITARIOS DE SAN JOAQUIN DELTA

CLAUDIA Y. MORENO-RABAGO
Ocupacion: Titular

Mi education y calificaciones son: Actualmente me desempeno como
Fideicomisaria y Presidenta de la Junta. Mi principal prioridad es tener un
sistema educativo vibrante en nuestra comunidad que responda a las diversas
necesidades de nuestros aprendices jovenes y adultos.

Como la mayona de ustedes, dependi de la educacion publica para avanzar.
Como ex alumna de Delta College, se que la educacion es la clave del exito
para nuestros alumnos y la comunidad. Quiero que las generaciones futuras
reciban la misma oportunidad que tuve yo de alcanzar “el Sueno Americano”.

Como educadora por 29 anos, entiendo las necesidades de educacion de
nuestra comunidad. Estoy comprometida con asegurar que la universidad
ofrezca una educacion de clase mundial. Como Fideicomisaria, trabajo para
asegurar el gasto fiscalmente responsable que a su vez financia estandares
de acreditacion mas altos, facilitar la comunicacion entre los sistemas K a 12,
y adoptar politicas que celebren la diversidad de los alumnos, la comunidad y
el personal. Siento pasion por preparar una fuerza laboral educada y bien
capacitada para hacer crecer nuestra economia local.

No estoy interesada en este puesto por razones de poder, reconocimiento del
nombre o ventaja politica. Lo representare a usted en marcar la diferencia en
nuestra comunidad que esta hambrienta de apoyo, honestidad, justicia y
responsabilidad.

39-6S

SJ 024-050

DISTRITO ESCOLAR UNIFICADO DE LODI

MEDIDA U

	Medida de Reparaciones de Escuelas	
11	Locales/Seauridad Estudiantil. Para reparar v mejorar las aulas obsoletas en las escuelas locales para preparar a los alumnos para la universidad y las carreras, retener/atraer docentes de calidad y mejorar la salud/seguridad de los alumnos retirando el moho/asbesto/pintura con plomo, reparando los techos con goteras, actualizando las	BONOS  si
u	aulas y adquiriendo/construyendo/modernizando los sitios/ instalaciones/equipamientos, ^debera el Distrito Escolar Unificado de Lodi emitir $281,000,000 de bonos a tasas de interes legales, con supervision ciudadana, auditonas anuales, sin destinar dinero para los salarios/pensiones de los administradores y conservando todos los fondos a nivel local?	BONOS  NO

TEXTO COMPLETO DE LA MEDIDA U

Medida de Reparaciones de Escuelas Locales/Sequridad
Estudiantil. Para reparar y mejorar las aulas obsoletas en las
escuelas locales para preparar a los alumnos para la
universidad y las carreras, retener/atraer docentes de calidad y
mejorar la salud/seguridad de los alumnos retirando el
moho/asbesto/pintura con plomo, reparando los techos con
goteras, actualizando las aulas y adquiriendo/construyendo/
modernizando los sitios/instalaciones/equipamientos, ^debera
el Distrito Escolar Unificado de Lodi emitir $281,000,000 de
bonos a tasas de interes legales, con supervision ciudadana,
auditonas anuales, sin destinar dinero para los salarios/
pensiones de los administradores y conservando todos los
fondos a nivel local?

Bonos—Si	Bonos—No

AUTORIZACION DE LOS BONOS

Con la aprobacion de esta proposicion por al menos el 55 por ciento de los
votantes inscritos que votan en la medida, el Distrito Escolar Unificado de Lodi
(el “Distrito”) estara autorizado a emitir y vender bonos de hasta $281,000,000
en capital total a tasas de interes que no excedan el limite legal y a brindar
financiamiento para los proyectos especificos detallados en la Lista de
Proyectos Financiados con Bonos que se describen a continuation, sujetos a
todos los requisitos para la rendicion de cuentas que se indican debajo.

Los Bonos pueden ser emitidos por los distritos escolares, segun las
disposiciones del Codigo de Educacion de California (a partir de la Seccion
15100), segun las disposiciones del Codigo de Gobierno de California (a partir

de la Seccion 53506), o segun cualquier otra disposition de la ley que autorice
la emision de bonos de obligation general. Los Bonos pueden ser emitidos en
series por el Distrito ocasionalmente, y cada serie de Bonos vencera dentro de
las limitaciones legales establecidas en la ley aplicable segun la cual los
Bonos son emitidos.

PLAN DE FINANCIAMIENTO

El Distrito pretende utilizar los Bonos para modernizar, reemplazar, renovar,
construir, adquirir y reconstruir las instalaciones del Distrito contenidas en la
Lista de Proyectos Financiados con Bonos.

Todos los Bonos seran vendidos como bonos de interes corriente y el uso de
bonos de plusvalia no estara permitido. No se emitira ninguna serie de Bonos
si dicha emision provocaria que la tasa impositiva aplicada para pagar el
servicio de la deuda en todos los Bonos pendientes exceda los $60 por ano
por cada $100,000 de la propiedad imponible, basada en las proyecciones
realizadas por el Distrito al momento de emitir dicha serie de Bonos.

REQUISITOS PARA LA RENDICION DE CUENTAS

Las disposiciones de esta seccion estan espetificamente incluidas en esta
proposicion con el fin de que los votantes y contribuyentes del Distrito puedan
estar seguros de que su dinero sera gastado prudentemente. Los
desembolsos para tratar las necesidades de las instalaciones especificas del
Distrito cumpliran con los requisitos del Artlculo XIIIA, Seccion 1(b)(3), de la
Constitution del Estado y la Ley sobre Estricta Rendicion de Cuentas de los
Bonos para la Construction de Escuelas Locales de 2000 (codificada en las
Secciones 15264 y siguientes del Codigo de Educacion).

Evaluation de las Necesidades. La Junta de Educacion del Distrito (la “Junta
de Educacion”) ha identificado las necesidades detalladas de las instalaciones
del Distrito y ha determinado que proyectos se financiaran con un bono local
en este momento. La Junta de Educacion certifica por la presente que ha
evaluado las necesidades de seguridad, reduction del tamano de las clases,
crecimiento de la inscription y de informatica al desarrollar la Lista de
Proyectos Financiados con Bonos que se muestra abajo.

Comite Supervisor de Ciudadanos Independiente. La Junta de Educacion
debera establecer un Comite Supervisor de Ciudadanos Independiente, segun
la Seccion 15278 y siguientes del Codigo de Educacion, para asegurar que los
ingresos provenientes de los bonos sean gastados solamente en los proyectos
de las instalaciones escolares detallados abajo. El comite sera establecido
dentro de los 60 dias posteriores a la fecha en que los resultados de las
elecciones aparezcan en las actas de la Junta de Educacion.

Auditonas de Desempeno. La Junta de Educacion debera realizar una
auditorla de desempeno anual independiente para asegurar que los ingresos
provenientes de los bonos se han gastado solamente en los proyectos de las
instalaciones escolares que se describen en la Lista de Proyectos Financiados
con Bonos abajo.

Auditonas Financieras. La Junta de Educacion debera realizar una auditoria
financiera anual independiente de los ingresos provenientes de los bonos
hasta que todos esos ingresos hayan sido gastados para los proyectos de las
instalaciones escolares que se describen en la Lista de Proyectos Financiados
con Bonos abajo.

Informe Anual. El Superintendente Adjunto de Servicios
Comerciales/Funcionario Comercial Principal del Distrito indicara la
presentation de un informe anual a la Junta de Educacion, el primer informe
debera presentarse a mas tardar un ano despues de la emision de la primera
serie de bonos, dicho informe contendra information pertinente acerca del
monto de los fondos recaudados y gastados, asi como el estatus de los

U-1101S

SJ 024-051

proyectos detallados en esta medida, segun lo requerido por la ley aplicable
de California.

(i)	asegurar que todos los fondos sean utilizados solo a nivel
local;

Desembolso de los Ingresos Provenientes de los Bonos. Los ingresos
provenientes de la venta de los bonos del Distrito seran utilizados solamente
para los propositos precisados en esta medida, y para ningun otro fin. Esos
ingresos seran depositados en un Fondo para Proyectos que estara en poder
del Tesorero del Condado de San Joaquin, segun lo requerido por el Codigo
de Educacion de California.

OTRAS ESPECIFICACIONES

(ii)	prohibir al Estado tomar ni siquiera una parte de los
fondos recaudados;

(iii)	exigir que los desembolsos esten sujetos a auditorias
financieras anuales independientes;

(iv)	prohibir que los fondos sean utilizados para salarios o
pensiones de los administradores; y

Sin Salarios para los Administradores. Los ingresos provenientes de la
venta de los bonos autorizados por esta proposition deberan ser utilizados
solamente para los proyectos de las instalaciones escolares contenidos en la
Lista de Proyectos Financiados con Bonos abajo, y para ningun otro fin,
incluyendo los salarios de los docentes y administradores, y otros gastos
operativos de la escuela; siempre que, no obstante, los ingresos provenientes
de los bonos puedan ser utilizados para pagar la administration del proyecto
realizada por el personal del Distrito mientras duren dichos proyectos.

LISTA DE PROYECTOS FINANCIADOS CON BONOS

(v)	exigir la supervision ciudadana independiente de los
fondos provenientes de los bonos.

Los ingresos provenientes de los bonos seran utilizados para modernizar,
reemplazar, renovar, construir, adquirir y reconstruir las instalaciones del
Distrito segun se describe en la siguiente lista. Siempre que se incluyan
puntos especificos en la lista a continuacion, los mismos se brindan a modo de
ejemplo y no pretenden limitar la generalidad de la description mas amplia de
los tipos de proyectos autorizados.

Alcance de los Proyectos. La Lista de Proyectos Financiados con Bonos que
se muestra a continuacion es parte de la medida de la boleta electoral y debe
ser reproducida en todo documento oficial que requiera contener la
declaration completa de la medida de bonos.

La Junta de Educacion esta comprometida con reparar y mejorar sus escuelas
antiguas, atraer y retener docentes de calidad, y preparar a los alumnos para
la universidad y las cameras, retirar el moho, asbesto, y la pintura con plomo,
reparar los techos con goteras, y asegurar la seguridad y protection de todos
los alumnos. Con ese fin, la Junta de Educacion recibio la opinion de los
docentes, el personal y la comunidad y evaluo las necesidades urgentes y
criticas de las instalaciones del Distrito, incluyendo la necesidad de tecnologia
actualizada, los laboratorios de ciencias, los problemas de seguridad, y
computation e informatica; y adopto un Plan Maestro de Instalaciones de
Largo Alcance presentado a la Junta de Educacion el 7 de junio de 2016. Al
desarrollar el alcance de los proyectos, se involucro a los miembros de la
comunidad para dar prioridad a las necesidades clave de salud, seguridad y
reparaciones de manera que se traten las necesidades mas criticas de los
sitios escolares.

La Lista de Proyectos incluye los siguientes tipos de actualizaciones y mejoras
en las siguientes escuelas del Distrito:

Ansel Adams	Lois E. Borchardt	Tokay Colony
Beckman	Manlio Silva Houston	Turner Academy
Clairmont	Joe Serna Jr.	Walter J. Katnich
Clyde W. Needham	Christa McAuliffe	Tokay
C reeks ide	Delta Sierra	Millswood
Davis	Henderson	Morada
Elkhorn	Lodi Middle	Lockeford
Ellerth E. Larson	Bear Creek	Oakwood
Erma B. Reese	Liberty	Parklane
George Lincoln Mosher	Lodi High	Podesta Ranch
George Washington	Plaza Robles	Sutherland
Heritage	Ronald E. McNair	Victor
John Muir	Lincoln Tech. Academy	Vinewood
Julia Morgan	Needham West	Wagner Holt
Lakewood	School/Readiness Preschool	Westwood
Lawrence Leroy Nichols	Turner	Woodbridge

Live Oak

Dichos proyectos incluiran, sin limitaciones:

Al aprobar la Lista de Proyectos prioritarios siguientes, la Junta de Educacion
determina que el Distrito debe:

(a)	atraer y retener docentes de calidad;

(b)	mejorar la seguridad de los alumnos;

(c)	retirar los materiales peligrosos como el asbesto, moho y la
pintura con plomo de los sitios escolares mas viejos;

1.	Reparation y mejora de las escuelas antiguas de todo el
Distrito. La mayoria de las escuelas del Distrito se construyeron
hace decadas y, como resultado de ello, muchas estan viejas y
necesitan mejoras basicas de salud y seguridad. Los fondos
provenientes de esta medida seran utilizados para reparar los
banos deteriorados y los techos con goteras, retirar el moho, el
asbesto y la pintura con plomo, y reemplazar los sistemas de
electricidad, calefaccion y aire acondicionado obsoletos para
que los ninos puedan aprender en aulas seguras y saludables.

(d)	proporcionar aulas limpias y seguras, un entorno de aprendizaje
de calidad para los alumnos actuales y futuros;

(e)	actualizar los sistemas electricos y cableados deteriorados y
obsoletos para ofrecer capacitacion laboral a los alumnos que
planean ingresar a la fuerza laboral justo despues de la escuela
secundaria; y

(f)	respetar las salvaguardas espetificas de responsabilidad fiscal,
tales como:

•	Mejorar las aulas portables	deterioradas	y	enmohecidas,

o reemplazarlas con aulas permanentes

•	Reparar los techos

•	Retirar el asbesto

•	Reparar y reconstruir	las aulas	e instalaciones escolares

antiguas para cumplir con los requisitos de salud y
seguridad

•	Reparar y actualizar los sistemas de calefaccion y aire
acondicionado de las escuelas

U-1102S

SJ 024-052

•	Cumplir con los requisitos de accesibilidad de las
personas con discapacidades (ADA) en los banos, las
aulas y los sitios escolares

•	Brindar las instalaciones adecuadas para educacion flsica
para mantener a los alumnos saludables

•	Retirar la pintura con plomo

•	Reparar los banos deteriorados

•	Reparar los sistemas de plomerla antiguos

•	Retirar el moho

2.	Mejoras en la Seguridad y la Proteccion en las Escuelas.

Muchas escuelas estan obsoletas o tienen pocos elementos de
seguridad que deben ser mejorados. Esta medida ayudara a
instalar cercos de seguridad, camaras e iluminacion, y a
modernizar otros sistemas de seguridad esenciales para brindar
entornos de aprendizaje seguros.

•	Mejorar la seguridad de los campus instalando
iluminacion adicional, cercos y control de acceso

•	Mejorar los sistemas de alarma contra incendios y
rociadores

•	Reconstruir/reconfigurar las zonas de carga y los
estacionamientos para la seguridad de los alumnos

3.	Proyectos de Modernization de Ciencias y Tecnologia. Para
triunfar en la economia del Siglo XXI, nuestros alumnos
necesitan habilidades en el campo de las ciencias, la tecnologia,
ingenierla y matematicas. Esta medida mejorara y modernizara
las aulas para que todos los alumnos tengan acceso a los
programas de educacion y la tecnologia necesaria para
prepararlos para la universidad y las cameras. Ademas, permitira
a los alumnos de los programas de educacion tecnica y
vocacional acceder a las herramientas practicas de aprendizaje
interactivo para ayudarlos a adquirir las habilidades del mundo
real que necesitan para competir por empleos bien remunerados
cuando segraduen.

•	Mejorar las infraestructuras/los sistemas electricos en
deterioro y obsoletos y el cableado para la tecnologia de
computation y el acceso a Internet

•	Brindar nuevos laboratories de ciencias

•	Mejorar las aulas para educacion profesional tecnica y
vocacional

•	Mejorar la tecnologia en las aulas para preparar a los
alumnos para la economia del Siglo XXI

•	Mejorar el acceso de los estudiantes a las computadoras
y a la tecnologia moderna

Cada uno de los proyectos de bonos que se describe en esta Lista de
Proyectos Financiados con Bonos incluye todos los costos inherentes a, pero
directamente relacionados con, los proyectos especlficos que se describen
arriba. Dichos costos incluyen, sin limitaciones, la demolition de estructuras
existentes, el alquiler o la construccion de instalaciones de almacenamiento y
otros espacios de forma provisional para los materiales y otro equipamiento y
mobiliario desplazado durante la construccion, aulas e instalaciones
provisionales para alumnos, administradores y funciones escolares pero solo
en la medida en que esas instalaciones sean consideradas necesarias por la
Junta de Educacion como resultado de condiciones imprevistas, tratando las
condiciones imprevistas que aparezean con la construccion/modernizacion y
otras mejoras necesarias requeridas para cumplir con los codigos de
construccion existentes, incluyendo la ley de reglamentacion antislsmica de
las escuelas “Field Act”, y los requisitos de accesibilidad de la Ley de
Estadounidenses con Discapacidades (“ADA”), los costos de la eleccion, de la

emision de bonos y de administracion del proyecto mientras duren dichos
proyectos, incluyendo la administracion por el personal del Distrito.

Para cualquier proyecto enumerado arriba con respecto a la construccion en
un sitio existente del Distrito, el Distrito esta autorizado a identificar un sitio
alternativo y/o a adquirir terrenos para ese fin y construir el proyecto aprobado
en ese sitio si el Distrito ha determinado que el sitio existente no satisface
ninguno de los requisitos de la Division del Arquitecto del Estado u otras leyes,
codigos y reglamentaciones del Estado aplicables a los sitios escolares
publicos.

El orden en el que los proyectos de las instalaciones escolares son
enumerados arriba no sugiere un orden de prioridad. La prioridad del proyecto
la determinara la Junta de Educacion. El Distrito no puede anticipar todas las
circunstancias imprevistas que pueden evitar que se emprendan o completen
algunos de los proyectos enumerados arriba.

Proyectos Sujetos a la Disponibilidad de Fondos. La lista de proyectos que
antecede esta sujeta a la disponibilidad adecuada de fondos para el Distrito.
La aprobacion de la medida de bonos no garantiza que los proyectos
propuestos en el Distrito que son el objeto de los bonos bajo la medida seran
financiados mas alia de los ingresos locales generados por la medida. La
propuesta del Distrito para los proyectos puede asumir la reception de los
fondos de contrapartida del estado, que podrlan estar sujetos a apropiacion
por la Legislatura o a la aprobacion de una medida de bonos de todo el
estado.

DECLARACION DE LA TASAIMPOSITIVA PARA LA MEDIDA U

DISTRITO ESCOLAR UNIFICADO DE LODI

Se realizara una eleccion en el Distrito Escolar Unificado de Lodi (el
“Distrito”) el 8 de noviembre de 2016, para autorizar la venta de hasta
$281,000,000 en bonos del Distrito para continuar mejorando la calidad de la
educacion en las escuelas locales del Distrito. Especificamente, los ingresos
provenientes de los bonos seran utilizados para los fines de modernizar,
reemplazar, renovar, construir, adquirir y reconstruir las instalaciones
escolares en el Distrito.

Si los bonos son autorizados y vendidos, el servicio de la deuda de los
mismos sera pagado con los ingresos provenientes de los impuestos
aplicados sobre la propiedad imponible en el Distrito. La siguiente information
se brinda en cumplimiento de las Secciones 9400-9404 del Codigo Electoral
del Estado de California.

1.	La mejor estimacion del impuesto que se requerirla aplicar para
financiar esta emision de bonos durante el primer ano fiscal despues de la
venta de la primera serie de bonos, basada en las valuaciones fiscales
estimadas disponibles al momento de presentar esta declaracion, es de
$0.06000 por cada $100 ($60.00 por cada $100,000) de la valuacion fiscal en
el ano fiscal 2017-2018.

2.	La mejor estimacion del impuesto que se requerirla aplicar para
financiar esta emision de bonos durante el primer ano fiscal despues de la
venta de la ultima serie de bonos, basada en las valuaciones fiscales
estimadas disponibles al momento de presentar esta declaracion, es de
$0.06000 por cada $100 ($60.00 por cada $100,000) de la valuacion fiscal en
el ano fiscal 2025 - 2026.

3.	La mejor estimacion de la tasa impositiva mas alta que se
requerirla aplicar para financiar esta emision de bonos, basada en las
valuaciones fiscales estimadas disponibles al momento de presentar esta

U-1103S

SJ 024-053

declaration, es de $0.06000 por cada $100 ($60.00 por cada $100,000) de la
valuation fiscal en los anos fiscales 2015 - 2016.

4.	La mejor estimation de la tasa impositiva promedio que se
requeriria aplicar para financiar esta emision de bonos durante todo el periodo
de vigencia de los bonos, basada en las valuaciones fiscales estimadas
disponibles al momento de presentar esta declaration, es de $0.05827 por
cada $100 ($58.27 por cada $100,000) de la valuation fiscal.

5.	La mejor estimation del servicio total de la deuda que se
requeriria pagar si todos los bonos son emitidos y vendidos, incluyendo el
capital y los intereses, es de $560,823,795.

Los votantes deberlan tener en cuenta que las tasas impositivas
estimadas se basan en la VALUACION FISCAL de la propiedad imponible en
los registros impositivos oficiales del Condado, no en el valor de mercado de la
propiedad. Los contribuyentes que califiquen para una exencion del impuesto
a la propiedad, tal como la exencion para propietarios de viviendas seran
gravados a una tasa impositiva efectiva menor que la descrita arriba, y ciertos
contribuyentes tal vez califiquen para un aplazamiento de sus impuestos a la
propiedad. Los propietarios deberlan consultar sus propias facturas de
impuestos a la propiedad para determinar la valuation fiscal de su propiedad y
toda exencion impositiva aplicable.

Se dirige la atencion de todos los votantes al hecho de que la
information anterior esta basada en las proyecciones y estimaciones del
Distrito solamente, que no comprometen al Distrito. Las tasas impositivas
reales y los anos en que se aplicaran pueden diferir de las estimadas
actualmente, debido a las variaciones de estas estimaciones en el momento
de las ventas de los bonos, la cantidad de bonos vendidos y las tasas de
interes del mercado en el momento de cada venta, y las valuaciones fiscales
reales durante el periodo de pago de los bonos.

Las fechas de venta y la cantidad de bonos vendidos en cualquier
momento dado seran determinadas por el Distrito en base a su necesidad de
fondos para la construction y otros factores, incluyendo las limitaciones
legales a los bonos aprobados por el 55% de los votos. Las tasas de interes
real a la que se venderan los bonos dependera del mercado de bonos en el
momento de cada venta. La valuation fiscal real futura dependera de la
cantidad y el valor de la propiedad imponible en el Distrito segun lo
determinado por el Tasador del Condado en la valuation fiscal anual y el
proceso de igualacion.

Fechado: 12 de julio de 2016

/f/ Cathy Washer, Superintendente
Distrito Escolar Unificado de Lodi

anAlisis imparcial de la medida u

Medida de Bonos Escolares del Distrito Escolar Unificado de Lodi
Preparado por el Abogado del Condado de San Joaquin

La aprobacion de la Medida U permitirla al Distrito Escolar Unificado de
Lodi (el “Distrito”) incurrir en endeudamiento garantizado con bonos hasta un
monto maximo de doscientos ochenta y un millones de dolares sin centavos
($281,000,000.00). La emision y venta de dichos bonos de obligation general
serlan para reparar y mejorar las instalaciones escolares anosas, realizar

mejoras de protection y seguridad escolar, y para proyectos de modernization
de ciencias y tecnologla. Los ingresos provenientes de los bonos tambien
podrian ser utilizados para calificar para los fondos de contrapartida del
Estado de California.

Ninguna parte de los fondos provenientes de las ventas de los bonos
podria utilizarse para los salarios de los administradores del Distrito o para
cualquier proposito o proyecto que no sean los expresamente indicados en la
medida.

Para asegurar que los fondos provenientes de las ventas de los bonos
autorizados por la Media U sean gastados solamente para los propositos
expresamente indicados en la Media U, y para ningun otro fin, la Medida U
exigirla al Distrito que: (1) designe un comite supervisor de ciudadanos
independiente; y (2) realice auditorlas anuales independientes de desempeno
y financieras.

Si se aprueba la Medida U, y se autorizan y se venden los bonos, el
capital de los mismos y los intereses respectivos se pagaran con los ingresos
provenientes de las aplicaciones de impuestos realizadas sobre la propiedad
imponible del Distrito. Si se aprueba la Medida U, la tasa impositiva necesaria
para el pago del capital y los intereses de todos los bonos vendidos sera
determinada en gran parte por el momento de las ventas de los bonos, la
cantidad vendida en una venta determinada, las tasas de interes del mercado
al momento de cada venta (aunque en ningun caso sera mayor a las tasas de
interes netas maximas de bonos permitida por la ley), asi como la valuation
fiscal real de la propiedad imponible del Distrito durante el periodo de pago. Se
entregara a todos los votantes inscritos, junto con la boleta electoral de
muestra para la election de bonos, una declaration de los datos de la tasa
impositiva requerida por la Section 9401 del Codigo Electoral.

La aprobacion de la Medida U no garantiza que los proyectos que el
Distrito propone que sean financiados con los ingresos provenientes de los
bonos autorizados y vendidos seran financiados mas alia de los ingresos
locales generados por las ventas de los bonos autorizados por la Medida U. La
propuesta del Distrito para dichos proyectos asume la reception de los fondos
de contrapartida del Estado de California que podrian estar sujetos a la
apropiacion por la Legislatura del Estado o a la aprobacion de una medida de
bonos de todo el estado.

La aprobacion de la Medida U requiere la aprobacion del cincuenta y
cinco por ciento (55%) de los que votan en la misma.

ARGUMENTO A FAVOR DE LA MEDIDA U

Vote Si en U - jUnirse para Tener Mejores Escuelas!

jLos ninos necesitan su ayuda! La mayorla de las escuelas locales se
construyeron hace decadas y necesitan mejoras de seguridad y salud. jSI en
U repara las escuelas locales para mantener a los ninos seguros y prepararlos
para el exito!

jSi en U - Repara las Escuelas Anosas! Si en U elimina el moho, el asbesto y
la pintura con plomo, repara los techos con goteras, reemplaza el cableado
electrico obsoleto y deteriorado, los sistemas de calefaccion/aire
acondicionado y actualiza los rociadores y las alarmas de incendios.

jSI en U - Prepara a los Alumnos para la Universidad y las Carreras! No todos
los alumnos asisten a la universidad. Si en U brinda a los alumnos
herramientas de aprendizaje practico para adquirir las habilidades del mundo
real que son necesarias para competir por empleos bien remunerados. Si en U

SJ 024-054

atrae y retiene docentes de calidad, mejora las aulas, los laboratorios de
ciencias, y mejora el cableado para el acceso de la tecnologia para soportar
las clases de ciencias, tecnologia, ingenieria y matematicas que son criticas
para triunfar en el Siglo XXL

jSf en U - Mantiene a los Alumnos Seguros! Si en U crea escuelas mas
seguras permitiendo a los docentes y directores supervisar mejor a los
alumnos, identificar los alumnos en riesgo, y ampliar los programas para
mantener a los alumnos alejados de las calles, de los problemas y lejos de las
pandillas.

jLa Medida U tiene Rendicion de Cuentas Fiscal! Cada centavo se utilizara
solo para el Distrito Escolar Unificado de Lodi. La Medida U incluye estrictas
salvaguardas para la rendicion de cuentas y para los contribuyentes
incluyendo la Supervision de Ciudadanos Independiente y las auditorias
financieras anuales. Sin dinero para los salarios de los administradores, las
pensiones o el Estado. jVotar Si en U asegura que las escuelas locales sean
elegibles para la parte que les corresponde del dinero estatal que de otro
modo iria a otras comunidades!

La Medida U es una buena inversion a largo plazo que ayuda a la economla
local. Recuerde, las escuelas publicas de calidad mantienen solidos los
valores de las propiedades. Unase a los docentes, padres, llderes de la
comunidad, agricultores y propietarios de negocios locales en votar SI en U -
jUnirse para Tener Mejores Escuelas! jStockton y Lodi obtienen la parte que
les corresponde! Conozca mas y recuerde votar:
www.UniteforBetterSchools.com

ftl James A. Mousalimas, Superintendente de Escuelas del Condado de San Joaquin

PTA de la Escuela Primaria Julia Morgan
/f/ Veronica Aguas, Presidenta

Club del Padre de la Escuela Primaria Reese
/f/ Marcy Zimmerman, Presidenta

Comite Supervisor de Bonos del LUSD
/f/ Jeff Seybold, Presidente

/f/ Jose Maciel, Administrador del Programa de Seguridad y Educacion
Extracurricular

ARGUMENTO EN CONTRA DE LA MEDIDA U

Falta de rendicion de cuentas: una razon para votar NO.

El Distrito Escolar Unificado de Lodi (LUSD) tiene ocho escuelas secundarias,
diez escuelas medias y 32 primarias.

En la boleta electoral de noviembre, hay un bono para la educacion de todo el
estado de $9 mil millones cuyo pago costara $17.6 mil millones con intereses.
Junto con el bono de $281 millones del LUSD (intereses a determinar), su
factura de impuestos aumentara. ^Cuanto puede usted costear?

^Que es lo que usted esta realmente pagar? Los salarios y beneficios,
incluyendo las pensiones, representaron mas del 80% del presupuesto 2014-
15 del LUSD. En 2015-16, los salarios y beneficios se mantuvieron en este
nivel, mientras que el distrito asigno menos del 1% para reparaciones.

En 2016-17, los costos de las pensiones treparon del 21% al 24% del
presupuesto del LUSD para cubrir el deficit en el sistema CalSTRS cuyas

obligaciones no financiadas se estiman en mas de $80 mil millones. Pienselo.
El LUSD esta destinando un cuarto de su presupuesto para las pensiones, no
para educacion o mantenimiento de edificios.

Todo el dinero esta yendo a los salarios y beneficios, especialmente los
crecientes costos de las pensiones. No queda dinero para el mantenimiento de
los edificios.

El Tesorero del Estado de California John Chiang entonces declaro lo obvio
recientemente cuando expreso su preocupacion acerca de los acuerdos de
dinero a cambio de favores donde las companias constructoras y las
empresas de Wall Street financian las campanas para aprobar las medidas de
bonos locales y luego se benefician con el dinero de los bonos. En 2014, el
FBI y la SEC iniciaron una investigation del programa de bonos para la
construction del Distrito Escolar Unificado de Contra Costa Oeste.

El distrito no tiene un problema de ingresos, tiene un problema de salario y
pension en escalada que esta reduciendo el presupuesto para mantener
nuestros edificios escolares.

Falta de rendicion de cuentas: una razon para votar NO en la Medida U.

/f/ Gregory P. Goehring, Contribuyente

ftI Jim Shoemaker, Contribuyente

/f/ Alexander S. Aliferis, Defensor de los Contribuyentes

ftI Jim Hicks, Contribuyente

REFUTACION AL
ARGUMENTO A FAVOR DE LA MEDIDA U

Falta de rendicion de cuentas: una razon para votar NO.

Los partidarios de los bonos prometen que los dolares provenientes de los
bonos solo seran utilizados para edificios y equipamiento. Lo que no le dicen
es que el bono liberara mas dinero para que sea gastado en los costos de las
pensiones y los salarios en aumento que podrian ser mejor gastados en
edificios y equipamiento.

^Sabia usted que el superintendente del LUSD cobro $269,405.90 en salario y
beneficios en 2014? El salario basico del superintendente solo fue de
$235,000, que es mas de lo que gana el Gobernador de California. En 2014, el
salario del Gobernador Jerry Brown fuede $173,987, segun ballotpedia.org.

Segun transparentcalifornia.com, hay mas de 300 empleados del Unificado de
Lodi que ganan mas de $100,000 en salario y pension totales. ^Usted gana
eso en un ano?

Los salarios, los beneficios y los costos de las pensiones representan mas del
80% del presupuesto del LUSD, mientras que un misero 1% se gasta en
mantenimiento de los edificios.

El LUSD aprobo un bono de $114 millones en 2006. Los contribuyentes aun
estan pagando la factura, el capital y los intereses.

No necesitamos otro bono. Necesitamos controlar los aumentos
descontrolados de los costos de las pensiones y los salarios.

Esto no ayudara a nuestros ninos.

U-1105S

SJ 024-055

Falta de rendition de cuentas: una razon para votar NO en la Medida U.

/f/ Gregory P. Goehring, Contribuyente

/f/ Alexander S. Aliferis, Defensor de los Contribuyentes

/f/ Jim Shoemaker, Contribuyente

REFUTACION AL
ARGUMENTO EN CONTRA DE LA MEDIDA U

El argumento del oponente es falso y enganoso. jPor ley -ni un centavo- de
los fondos de la Medida U puede ser gastado en pensiones o salarios de los
administradores! Por ley se requiere que cada moneda de diez centavos sea
utilizada para las mejoras que nuestras escuelas anosas necesitan para la
salud y seguridad de nuestros alumnos-Vote Si en U.

El Distrito Escolar Unificado de Lodi tiene un historial de administration
financiera solida y eficiente. jDe hecho, el LUSD recientemente les hizo
ahorrar a los contribuyentes mas de $4,000,000! Esta administration fiscal
estricta y transparente continuara con la Medida U.

Si en U es fiscalmente responsable. Se requieren estrictas salvaguardas para
los contribuyentes, incluyendo las auditorias anuales independientes y un
comite supervisor de ciudadanos independiente. Ninguna parte de los fondos
puede ser tomada por Sacramento o gastada en pensiones o salarios de los
administradores.

Si en U paga las reparaciones basicas para nuestras escuelas. Todos los
fondos se utilizaran para eliminar el moho, el asbesto y la pintura con plomo;
reparar los techos con goteras; reemplazar los sistemas obsoletos de
electricidad, calefaccion y aire acondicionado; mejorar la seguridad y
protection de las escuelas; actualizar los sistemas de rociadores y alarmas de
incendios; y reemplazar los portables viejos e inseguros.

Si en U tambien mejora las aulas y los laboratorios de ciencias, asegurando
que podamos seguir atrayendo y reteniendo docentes de calidad y preparando
a los alumnos para la universidad y las cameras del Siglo XXI.

No permita que la retorica politica se interponga al sentido comun. Las buenas
escuelas protegen los valores de las propiedades y mantienen el atractivo de
los vecindarios. Si en U tambien asegura que las escuelas locales califiquen
para la parte que les corresponde de los subsidios de contrapartida del Estado
que de otro modo irian a otras comunidades.

Si en U - jTrabajando Juntos Localmente para Unirse para Tener Mejores
Escuelas!

/f/ Kelly Ray Brown, Contador Publico Certificado

/f/ John Griffin, Contribuyente Propietario desde hace 35 anos

/f/ Daniel C. Webb, Propietario de Negocio Local

/f/ Terry Quashnick, Propietario de Negocio Local

Comite Supervisor de Bonos del LUSD
/f/ Homar Juarez

U-1106S	SJ	024-056

CIUDAD DE LODI

MEDIDA R		
R	^Debera la Ciudad de Lodi reemplazar los patios de juegos obsoletos, reparar la ribera erosionada de Lodi Lake, reparar y ampliar los sistemas de senderos de los parques, reemplazar los banos y bebederos de los parques, y mejorar los estacionamientos de los parques, las calzadas, el paisajismo y la infraestructura, aprobando un impuesto al uso de bienes y las transacciones (“ventas”) de un octavo de centavo por dolar (0.125%), que se estima que recaudara $1,400,000 anualmente, con vencimiento en quince (15) anos, aplicando todos los ingresos exclusivamente a estos propositos espetificos, sujetos a la supervision ciudadana y una auditoria anual?	SI
		NO

TEXTO COMPLETO DE LA MEDIA R

ORDENANZA N° 1925

UNA ORDENANZA DEL CONCEJO MUNICIPAL DE LA CIUDAD
DE LODI QUE ENMIENDA EL TITULO 3 DEL CODIGO
MUNICIPAL DE LODI - INGRESOS Y FINANZAS AGREGANDO
EL CAPITULO 3.30, “IMPUESTO ESPECIAL AL USO DE
BIENES Y LAS TRANSACCIONES PARA REPARACIONES,
MANTENIMIENTO, MEJORAS Y ACTUALIZACIONES DE LOS
PARQUES,” APLICANDO UN IMPUESTO ESPECIAL AL USO
DE BIENES Y LAS TRANSACCIONES DE UN OCTAVO DE
CENTAVO POR DOLAR (0.125%) PARA REPARACIONES,
MANTENIMIENTO, MEJORAS Y ACTUALIZACIONES DE LOS
PARQUES QUE SERA COBRADO Y ADMINISTRADO POR LA
JUNTA DIRECTIVA ESTATAL DE IMPUESTOS SOBRE
VENTAS SUJETO A LA APROBACION DE LOS VOTANTES

El Concejo Municipal de la Ciudad de Lodi por el presente concluye lo
siguiente:

A.	Se necesitan ingresos adicionales para financiar las
reparaciones, el mantenimiento y las mejoras de los parques, incluyendo los
puntos tales como reconstruction de estacionamientos y carreteras en Lodi
Lake y otros parques de la Ciudad; rehabilitation y construction de
senderos en los parques; renovation de los patios de juego; reemplazo e
instalacion de bebederos y mobiliario para parques; mejora de la eficiencia
del agua, y la realization de otras mejoras de infraestructura de los parques.

B.	El presupuesto adoptado de la Ciudad para el AF2016/17 solo
puede brindar el financiamiento minimo para la reparation y el
mantenimiento de los parques de la Ciudad, y sigue aplazando las
necesidades de inversion de capital. La prevision financiera de la Ciudad en
los proximos cinco anos sigue reflejando una falta de recursos disponibles
para tratar las reparaciones, el mantenimiento, las mejoras y actualizaciones
de los parques.

C.	El Concejo Municipal puede proponer que los votantes
aprueben un impuesto especial al uso de bienes y las transacciones
(impuesto a las ventas) para recaudar fondos adicionales para las
reparaciones, el mantenimiento y las mejoras de los parques.

D.	Un impuesto especial al uso de bienes y las transacciones es
un tipo de impuesto especial que puede ser aplicado por el Concejo
Municipal para lograr estos propositos.

E.	De conformidad con la Seccion 7285.91 del Codigo de Ingresos
e Impuestos, el Concejo Municipal puede aplicar un impuesto especial al
uso de bienes y las transacciones para propositos generales a la tasa de un
octavo del uno por ciento (0.125%) o un multiplo de este, si la ordenanza
que propone el impuesto es aprobada por el voto de los dos tercios de todos
los miembros del Concejo Municipal y si posteriormente el impuesto es
aprobado por el voto de los dos tercios de los votantes calificados de la
Ciudad que votan en una eleccion.

F.	Un impuesto especial al uso de bienes y las transacciones de
un octavo del uno por ciento (0.125%) generara suficientes ingresos para
permitir a la Ciudad comenzar a tratar los trabajos de mantenimiento y
reparaciones en los parques de la Ciudad, y realizar mejoras y
actualizaciones en los equipamientos de los parques y su infraestructura en
toda la Ciudad. El impuesto especial generaria ingresos anuales estimados
de $1,400,000 y $21,000,000 estimados en quince (15) anos.

G.	La Seccion 53724(c) del Codigo de Gobierno requiere la
consolidation de una eleccion sobre un impuesto especial en una eleccion
primaria de todo el estado, una eleccion general de todo el estado o una
eleccion local regularmente programada en la cual todos los electores del
distrito o gobierno local tengan derecho a votar.

H.	El 8 de noviembre de 2016 es la fecha de las elecciones
generales de todo el estado y es la siguiente fecha electoral elegible para
incluir esta medida del impuesto especial.

POR LO TANTO, AHORA, EL CONCEJO MUNICIPAL DE LA CIUDAD DE
LODI APRUEBA:

Seccion 1. Por el presente se enmienda el Titulo 3 del Codigo
Municipal de Lodi - Ingresos y Finanzas mediante el agregado del Capitulo
3.30, “Impuesto Especial al Uso de Bienes y las Transacciones para
Reparaciones, Mantenimiento, Mejoras y Actualizaciones de los Parques” y
debe decir lo siguiente:

CAPITULO 3.30

ORDENANZA DEL IMPUESTO ESPECIAL AL USO DE BIENES
Y LAS TRANSACCIONES PARA REPARACIONES, MANTENIMIENTO,
MEJORAS Y ACTUALIZACIONES DE LOS PARQUES

Secciones:

3.30.010	Titulo

3.30.020	Fecha de Entrada en Vigor

3.30.030	Proposito

3.30.040	Contrato con el Estado

3.30.050	Tasa del Impuesto a las Transacciones

3.30.060	Lugar de Venta

3.30.070	Tasa del Impuesto al Uso de	Bienes

3.30.080	Fecha de Termination

3.30.090	Adoption de las Disposiciones de la Ley del Estado

39-801S

SJ 024-057

3.30.100	Limitaciones a la Adoption de la Ley del Estado y al Cobro de
los Impuestos al Uso de Bienes

3.30.110	Permiso No Requerido

3.30.120	Exenciones y Exclusiones

3.30.130	Enmiendas

3.30.140	Prohibition de Impedir el Cobro

3.30.150	Reembolsos y Creditos; Juicios y Procedimientos Legales

3.30.160	Fondo Especial; Uso restringido de los Ingresos Provenientes
del Impuesto y Plan de Desembolsos

3.30.170	Establecimiento del Comite Supervisor del Impuesto Especial
a las Ventas para Parques

3.30.180	Informe y Auditoria Anual

3.30.010	Titulo. Esta ordenanza se conocera como la Ordenanza del
Impuesto Especial al Uso de Bienes y las Transacciones de la Ciudad de
Lodi para Reparaciones, Mantenimiento, Mejoras y Actualizaciones de los
Parques. En adelante, la Ciudad de Lodi sera denominada la "Ciudad." Esta
ordenanza sera de aplicacion en el territorio incorporado de la Ciudad.

3.30.020	Fecha de Entrada en Vigor. "Fecha de entrada en vigor"
significa el primer dia del primer trimestre calendario que comienza mas de
110 dias despues de la adoption de esta ordenanza, siendo la fecha de
adoption la que se establece a continuation.

3.30.030	Proposito. Esta ordenanza se adopta para lograr los
siguientes propositos, entre otros, e indica que las disposiciones de la
presente sean interpretadas de manera de cumplir esos fines:

A.	Establecer un impuesto al uso de bienes y las transacciones al
por menor de acuerdo con las disposiciones de la Parte 1.6 (a partir de la
Section 7251) de la Division 2 del Codigo de Ingresos e Impuestos y la
Section 7285.91 de la Parte 1.7 de la Division 2 que autoriza a la Ciudad a
adoptar esta ordenanza impositiva que entrara en vigor si dos tercios de los
electores que votan en la medida votan para aprobar la aplicacion del
impuesto en una election convocada para ese fin.

B.	Adoptar una ordenanza sobre el impuesto al uso de bienes y las
transacciones al por menor que incorpora disposiciones identicas a las de la
Ley del Impuesto a las Ventas y el Uso de Bienes del Estado de California
en tanto y en cuanto esas disposiciones no sean inconsistentes con los
requisitos y limitaciones contenidos en la Parte 1.6 de la Division 2 del
Codigo de Ingresos e Impuestos.

C.	Adoptar una ordenanza del impuesto al uso de bienes y las
transacciones al por menor que aplica un impuesto y establece una medida
para que pueda ser administrado y recaudado por la Junta Directiva Estatal
de Impuestos sobre Ventas de manera tal de adaptarse a, en la mayor
medida posible, y de exigir la menor desviacion posible de, los
procedimientos estatutarios y administrativos existentes seguidos por la
Junta Directiva Estatal de Impuestos sobre Ventas en la administration y el
cobro de los Impuestos a las Ventas y el Uso de bienes del Estado de
California.

D.	Adoptar una ordenanza del impuesto al uso de bienes y las
transacciones al por menor que pueda ser administrado de la manera que
sea lo mas consistente posible con las disposiciones de la Parte 1.6 de la
Division 2 del Codigo de Ingresos e Impuestos, que minimice el costo de
recaudar los impuestos al uso de bienes y las transacciones, y al mismo
tiempo, reduzca la carga de mantener el registro de las personas sujetas a
la aplicacion de impuestos bajo las disposiciones de esta ordenanza.

3.40.040	Contrato con el Estado. Antes de la fecha de entrada en
vigor, la Ciudad debera contratar a la Junta Directiva Estatal de Impuestos
sobre Ventas para que esta realice todas las funciones relacionadas con la

administration y la operation de esta ordenanza del impuesto al uso de
bienes y las transacciones; siempre que, si la Ciudad no hubiera contratado
a la Junta Directiva Estatal de Impuestos sobre Ventas antes de la fecha de
entrada en vigor, debera hacerlo de todas maneras y en ese caso, la fecha
de entrada en vigor sera el primer dia del primer trimestre calendario luego
de la ejecucion de dicho contrato.

3.30.050	Tasa del Impuesto a las Transacciones. Por el privilegio de
vender bienes personales tangibles al por menor, por el presente se aplica
un impuesto a todos los comerciantes minoristas del territorio incorporado
de la Ciudad a la tasa de un octavo por ciento (0.125%) de los ingresos
brutos de cualquier comerciante minorista provenientes de la venta de todo
bien personal tangible vendido al por menor en dicho territorio el dia de la
fecha de entrada en vigor de esta ordenanza y con posterioridad a la
misma.

3.30.060	Luqar de Venta. A los fines de esta ordenanza, todas las
ventas al por menor se realizan en el domicilio comercial del comerciante
minorista a menos que el bien personal tangible vendido sea enviado por el
comerciante minorista o su agente a un destino fuera del estado o a una
empresa de transportes comun para su envio a un destino fuera del estado.
Los ingresos brutos provenientes de dichas ventas incluiran los cargos por
envio, cuando esos cargos esten sujetos al impuesto a las ventas y el uso
de bienes del estado, independientemente del lugar al que se realice el
envio. En caso de que un comerciante minorista no tenga un domicilio
comercial permanente en el Estado o que tenga mas de un domicilio
comercial, el o los lugar(es) en donde se realicen las ventas al por menor
seran determinados segun las reglas y reglamentaciones a ser prescritas y
adoptadas por la Junta Directiva Estatal de Impuestos sobre Ventas.

3.30.070	Tasa del Impuesto al Uso de Bienes. Por la presente se
aplica un impuesto especial sobre el almacenamiento, uso u otro consumo
en la Ciudad de bienes personales tangibles adquiridos a un comerciante
minorista en la fecha de entrada en vigor de esta ordenanza y despues de la
misma, para su almacenamiento, uso u otro consumo en dicho territorio a la
tasa de un octavo de centavo (0.125%) del precio de venta de los bienes. El
precio de venta debera incluir los cargos por envio cuando dichos cargos
esten sujetos al impuesto al uso de bienes o las ventas del Estado,
independientemente del lugar al que se realice el envio.

3.30.080.	Fecha de Termination. La autoridad para gravar el
impuesto aplicado por esta ordenanza vencera al cumplirse los quince anos
de la fecha de entrada en vigor, a menos que sea extendido por el voto
mayoritario de los dos tercios de los votantes de la Ciudad.

3.30.090	Adoption de las Disposiciones de la Lev del Estado.
Excepto que se establezca lo contrario en esta ordenanza y excepto hasta
la medida en que sean inconsistentes con las disposiciones de la Parte 1.6
de la Division 2 del Codigo de Ingresos e Impuestos, todas las disposiciones
de la Parte 1 (a partir de la Section 6001) de la Division 2 del Codigo de
Ingresos e Impuestos son adoptadas y forman parte de esta ordenanza
como si estuvieran totalmente enunciadas en la misma.

3.30.100.	Limitaciones a la Adoption de la Lev del Estado v al Cobro de los
Impuestos al Uso de Bienes. Al adoptar las disposiciones de la Parte 1 de la
Division 2 del Codigo de Ingresos e Impuestos:

A. Siempre que se mencione o se haga referencia al Estado de
California como la agenda impositiva, se debera reemplazar con el nombre
de esta Ciudad. Sin embargo, esa sustitucion no se realizara cuando:

1.	La palabra "Estado” sea utilizada como parte del cargo del

Controlador del Estado, Tesorero del Estado, Junta de Compensation

de Victimas de California y de Reclamaciones de Gobierno, Junta

39-802S

SJ 024-058

Directiva Estatal de Impuestos sobre Ventas, Tesoreria del Estado o la
Constitution del Estado de California;

2.	El resultado de esa sustitucion requeriria que se tome
alguna medida a favor o en contra de esta Ciudad o de cualquier
agencia, funcionario o empleado de la misma en lugar de hacerlo a
favor o en contra de la Junta Directiva Estatal de Impuestos sobre
Ventas, en la realization de las funciones inherentes a la
administration u operation de esta ordenanza.

3.	En aquellas secciones, incluyendo, sin limitation alguna,
las que se refieren a los limites exteriores del Estado de California, en
donde el resultado de la sustitucion seria para:

a.	Brindar una exencion de este impuesto con respecto
a ciertas ventas, almacenamiento, uso u otro consumo de
bienes personales tangibles que de otra manera no estarian
exentos de este impuesto mientras estas ventas,
almacenamiento, uso u otro consumo continuen sujetos al
impuesto por el Estado bajo las disposiciones de la Parte
1 de la Division 2 del Codigo de Ingresos e Impuestos, o;

b.	Aplicar este impuesto con respecto a ciertas ventas,
almacenamiento, uso u otro consumo de bienes
personales tangibles que no estarian sujetos al impuesto
por parte del estado bajo la mencionada disposition de
ese codigo.

4.	En las Secciones 6701, 6702 (excepto en la ultima oration
de la misma), 6711, 6715, 6737, 6797 o 6828 del Codigo
de Ingresos e Impuestos.

B. La palabra “Ciudad” sustituira a la palabra “Estado” en la frase
“comerciante minorista que realiza actividades en este Estado” en la
Section 6203 y en la definition de esa frase en la Section 6203.

3.30.110.	Permiso No Reauerido. Si el permiso de vendedor ha sido emitido
a un comerciante minorista bajo la Section 6067 del Codigo de Ingresos e
Impuestos, esta ordenanza no exigira un permiso adicional al comerciante.

3.30.120.	Exenciones v Exclusiones.

A.	Quedara excluido de la medida del impuesto a las
transacciones y del impuesto al uso de bienes el monto de cualquier
impuesto a las ventas o impuesto al uso de bienes aplicado por el Estado de
California o por cualquier ciudad, ciudad y condado, o condado conforme a
la Ley Uniforme del Impuesto sobre las Ventas y el Uso de Bienes Locales
Bradley-Burns o el monto de cualquier impuesto a las transacciones o al uso
de bienes administrado por el estado.

B.	Estan exentos del calculo del monto del impuesto a las
transacciones los ingresos brutos provenientes de:

minorista o su agente, o por el comerciante minorista a una empresa
de transporte para su transporte a un consignatario en ese lugar. A los
fines de este parrafo, el envlo a un destino fuera de la Ciudad quedara
concluido:

a.	Con respecto a los vehiculos (excepto los vehiculos
comerciales) sujetos a ser registrados conforme al
Capitulo 1 (a partir de la Section 4000) de la Division 3 del
Codigo de Vehiculos, los aviones autorizados en
cumplimiento de la Section 21411 del Codigo de Servicios
Publicos, y los buques no documentados registrados bajo
el Capitulo 2 de la Division 3.5 (a partir de la Section
9840) del Codigo de Vehiculos, mediante el registro en
una direction fuera de la Ciudad y mediante una
declaration bajo pena de perjurio, firmada por el
comprador, indicando que esa direction es, de hecho, su
principal lugar de residencia; y

b.	Con respecto a los vehiculos comerciales, mediante el
registro en un domicilio comercial fuera de la Ciudad y la
declaration bajo pena de perjurio, firmada por el comprador,
de que el vehiculo sera operado desde esa direction.

3.	La venta de bienes personales tangibles si el vendedor
esta obligado a proporcionar los bienes por un precio fijo de
conformidad con un contrato concertado antes de la fecha de entrada
en vigor de esta ordenanza.

4.	Un arrendamiento de bienes personales tangibles que
continua con la venta de dicho bien, por un perlodo de tiempo durante
el cual el arrendador esta obligado a arrendar el bien por un monto
fijado en el arrendamiento antes de la fecha de entrada en vigor de
esta ordenanza.

5.	A los fines de las subsecciones (3) y (4) de esta section,
la venta o el arrendamiento de los bienes personales tangibles se
considerara no obligado de conformidad con un contrato o
arrendamiento por un perlodo de tiempo durante el cual cualquiera de
las partes involucradas tiene el derecho incondicional de rescindir el
contrato o el arrendamiento con la debida notification,
independientemente de que ese derecho sea ejercido o no.

C.	Quedan exentos del impuesto al uso de bienes que aplica esta
ordenanza, el almacenamiento, uso u otro consumo en esta Ciudad de
bienes personales tangibles:

1.	Los ingresos brutos provenientes de la venta de aquellos
bienes que hayan estado sujetos al impuesto a las transacciones bajo
una ordenanza del impuesto al uso de bienes y las transacciones
administrada por el estado.

2.	Los productos que no sean combustibles ni derivados del
petroleo adquiridos por operadores de aviones y utilizados o consumidos
por dichos operadores directa y exclusivamente en el uso de esos
aviones como medios de transporte comunes de pasajeros o bienes
para alquiler o compensation conforme a un certificado de conveniencia
y necesidad publica emitido de acuerdo con las leyes de este Estado, los
Estados Unidos o cualquier gobierno extranjero. Esta exencion se
agrega a las dispuestas en las Secciones 6366 y 6366.1 del Codigo de
Ingresos e Impuestos del Estado de California.

1.	Las ventas de bienes personales tangibles, a exception
del combustible o los productos derivados del petroleo, a operadores
de aviones para ser utilizados o consumidos principalmente fuera del
condado en el que se realiza la venta y directa y exclusivamente para
el uso de esos aviones como medios de transporte comunes de
pasajeros o bienes bajo la autoridad de las leyes de este Estado, de
los Estados Unidos o de cualquier gobierno extranjero.

2.	Las ventas de bienes a ser utilizados fuera de la Ciudad que
se transportan a un destino fuera de la misma, conforme al contrato de
venta, mediante el envio a ese destino realizado por el comerciante

3.	Si el comprador esta obligado a comprar los bienes por un
precio fijo conforme a un contrato realizado antes de la fecha de entrada
en vigor de esta ordenanza.

39-803S

SJ 024-059

4.	Si la posesion o el ejercicio de algun derecho o poder sobre
los bienes personales tangibles surge bajo un arrendamiento que
continua con la compra de dicho bien por un periodo de tiempo durante
el cual el arrendatario esta obligado a arrendar los bienes por un monto
fijado por arrendamiento antes de la fecha de entrada en vigor de esta
ordenanza.

5.	A los fines de las subsecciones (3) y (4) de esta seccion, el
almacenamiento, uso u otro consumo o la posesion o el ejercicio de
algun derecho o poder sobre los bienes personales tangibles seran
declarados no obligados de conformidad con un contrato o
arrendamiento por un periodo de tiempo durante el cual cualquiera de
las partes tiene el derecho incondicional de rescindir el contrato o
arrendamiento con la debida notificacion, independientemente de que
ese derecho sea ejercido o no.

6.	Excepto lo indicado en el inciso (7), un comerciante
minorista que realiza actividades comerciales en la Ciudad no estara
obligado a cobrarle el impuesto al uso de bienes al comprador de los
bienes personales tangibles, a menos que el comerciante minorista
transporte o envie los bienes a la Ciudad o participe dentro de la Ciudad
en la venta de los bienes, incluyendo, sin limitaciones, la solicitud o el
recibo de la orden de compra, ya sea directa o indirectamente, en un
domicilio comercial del comerciante minorista en la Ciudad o a traves de
un representante, agente, visitador a domicilio, negociador, subsidiaria o
persona en la Ciudad bajo la autoridad del comerciante minorista.

7.	“Un comerciante minorista que realiza actividades
comerciales en la Ciudad" tambien incluira a todo comerciante minorista
de cualquiera de las siguientes categorias: los vehiculos sujetos a
registro conforme al Capitulo 1 (a partir de la Seccion 4000) de la
Division 3 del Codigo de Vehiculos, los aviones autorizados en
cumplimiento de la Seccion 21411 del Codigo de Servicios Publicos, o
buques no documentados registrados bajo el Capitulo 2 de la Division

3.5	(a partir de la Seccion 9840) del Codigo de Vehiculos. Ese
comerciante minorista debera cobrarle el impuesto al uso de bienes a
todo comprador que registre o licencie el vehiculo, buque o avion en un
domicilio en la Ciudad.

D.	Toda persona sujeta al impuesto al uso de bienes bajo esta
ordenanza puede descontar de ese impuesto todos los impuestos a las
transacciones o reintegros por el impuesto a las transacciones pagado a un
distrito que lo aplique, o a un comerciante minorista sujeto a un impuesto a
las transacciones, de conformidad con la Parte 1.6 de la Division 2 del
Codigo de Ingresos e Impuestos con respecto a la venta a la persona de los
bienes cuyo almacenamiento, uso u otro consumo este sujeto al impuesto al
uso de bienes.

3.30.130.	Enmiendas.

A.	Toda enmienda realizada con posterioridad a la fecha de entrada
en vigencia de esta Ordenanza a la Parte 1 de la Division 2 del Codigo de
Ingresos e Impuestos, relacionada con los impuestos a las ventas y los
impuestos al uso de bienes y que no sea inconsistente con la Parte 1.6 y la
Parte 1.7 de la Division 2 del Codigo de Ingresos e Impuestos, y todas las
enmiendas realizadas a la Parte 1.6 y la Parte 1.7 de la Division 2 del Codigo
de Ingresos e Impuestos, automaticamente formaran parte de esta
Ordenanza, siempre que, no obstante, ninguna enmienda opere de manera de
afectar la tasa del impuesto que esta ordenanza aplica.

B.	De conformidad con la Seccion 9217 o cualquier estatuto
posterior del Codigo Electoral de California, el Concejo Municipal puede
enmendar o revocar esta ordenanza o alguno de sus anexos, pero no puede
aumentar o extender la tasa del impuesto aplicada en el presente, sin el
voto del pueblo.

3.30.140	Prohibition de Impedirel Cobro.

No podra emitirse ningun requerimiento o mandamiento judicial ni ningun otro
proceso legal o equitativo en ningun juicio, accion o procedimiento que se
tramite en algun tribunal contra el Estado o la Ciudad, o contra cualquier
funcionario del Estado o de la Ciudad, para evitar o prohibir el cobro bajo esta
ordenanza, o la Parte 1.6 de la Division 2 del Codigo de Ingresos e Impuestos,
de cualquier impuesto o monto del impuesto que deba recaudarse.

3.30.150.	Reembolsos v Creditos: Juicios v Procedimientos Leaales.

A.	Los reembolsos de y los creditos por algun impuesto pagado de
conformidad con este Capitulo solo podran hacerse segun lo dispuesto en la
Parte 1 (a partir de la Seccion 6001) de la Division 2 del Codigo de Ingresos
e Impuestos.

B.	Los juicios y procedimientos para la recuperation de alguna
suma cuya determination o cobro se presuma que ha sido erroneo o ilegal
segun este Capitulo pueden ser tramitados en cualquier tribunal solo de la
manera en que se establece en la Parte 1 (a partir de la Seccion 6001) de la
Division 2 del Codigo de Ingresos e Impuestos. No podra dictarse una
sentencia a favor del demandante en ninguna accion iniciada contra la Junta
Directiva Estatal de Impuestos sobre Ventas para recuperar alguna suma
pagada cuando la accion sea iniciada por o en nombre de un designado de
la persona que paga el monto o por cualquier persona que no sea la persona
que pago el monto.

3.30.160.	Fondo Especial: Uso Restrinqido de los Ingresos Provenientes del
Impuesto v Plan de Desembolsos.

Todos los ingresos provenientes del impuesto especial gravados y aplicados
por esta ordenanza seran explicados y se depositaran en un fondo o cuenta
especial designada para utilizar por la Ciudad de Lodi solo para los servicios
de parques segun lo establecido en el Plan de Desembolsos para Parques
para la administration y el desembolso de los ingresos provenientes del
impuesto, adjunto a esta ordenanza como Anexo 1, que forma parte de la
misma como si estuviera totalmente enunciado en esta. El Plan de
Desembolsos para Parques puede ser enmendado ocasionalmente por el voto
de la mayoria del Concejo Municipal, siempre que el fondo se siga utilizando
para reparaciones, mantenimiento y mejoras de los parques. No podran
gastarse los ingresos recaudados conforme al impuesto aplicado por esta
ordenanza en gastos operativos del Fondo General con vigor al momento en
que esta ordenanza entra en vigencia, o en proyectos que no sean parte del
Plan de Desembolsos para Parques. Los ingresos recaudados por esta
ordenanza complementaran, en lugar de reemplazar, los desembolsos
existentes de la Ciudad para los servicios de parques tal como se refleja en el
presupuesto para el AF 2016/2017.

3.30.170	Establecimiento del Comite Supervisor del Impuesto Especial
a las Ventas para Parques.

A.	Comite Establecido. Por la presente se establece en la Ciudad
de Lodi un Comite Supervisor de Ciudadanos para controlar los
desembolsos de los ingresos recaudados de conformidad con esta
Ordenanza solamente y para informar al Pueblo y al Concejo Municipal.

B.	Selection de Miembros. Los miembros del Comite Supervisor
de Ciudadanos seran designados por el Concejo Municipal. El Comite
estara compuesto por cinco miembros. Los miembros del Comite Supervisor
de Ciudadanos no podran ser empleados, funcionarios, contratistas o
proveedores de la Ciudad de Lodi. Sin embargo, los empleados,
funcionarios, contratistas o proveedores anteriores calificaran para prestar
servicios en el Comite, siempre que no existan conflictos de intereses segun
lo determine el Abogado de la Ciudad. De los miembros del Comite

39-804S

SJ 024-060

designados por primera vez, tres seran designados por mandatos de dos
anos y los otros dos por mandatos de tres anos. Sus sucesores seran
designados por mandatos de tres anos. Ningun miembro podra prestar
servicios por mas de dos mandatos consecutivos de tres anos. El Concejo
Municipal debera solicitar a los miembros del Comite Supervisor de
Ciudadanos a traves de un proceso de solicitud abierto que es promovido a
traves del proceso de reclutamiento adoptado por la Ciudad. Todo residente
de Lodi califica para solicitar la membresla del Comite, sujeto a las
restricciones indicadas arriba. Todas las solicitudes seran revisadas por el
Concejo Municipal, que tendra la autoridad de tomar todas las decisiones
finales sobre la composition del Comite, sujetas a las normas contenidas en
esta Ordenanza.

C.	Propositos v Jurisdiction. El Comite Supervisor de Ciudadanos
realizara una revision anual de los desembolsos de los ingresos recaudados
de conformidad con esta Ordenanza para determinar si esos fondos son
gastados para los propositos especificados en el Plan de Desembolsos para
Parques entonces vigente. Los miembros del Comite pueden revisar la
auditoria financiera anual realizada por un auditor independiente durante el
proceso de revision. El Comite Supervisor de Ciudadanos emitira un informe
anual sobre sus conclusiones para el Concejo Municipal y el Pueblo. El
informe anual del Comite Supervisor de Ciudadanos esta sujeto a la revision
y aprobacion del Concejo Municipal. El Comite limitara su revision
especificamente a los ingresos generados de conformidad con esta
Ordenanza y al desembolso de dichos ingresos. El Comite solamente
cumplira un rol de asesoramiento para el Concejo Municipal. Los miembros
del Comite no desempenaran un papel formal o informal en la contratacion,
gestion de proyectos o cualquier otro aspecto de las reparaciones, el
mantenimiento y las mejoras de los parques financiados por esta
Ordenanza. El Comite no tiene a su cargo la toma de decisiones sobre las
prioridades de gastos; cronogramas; detalles de los proyectos; decisiones
sobre las fuentes de financiamiento; planes de financiamiento, incluyendo
cambios o revisiones al Plan de Desembolsos para Parques; o presunciones
sobre la tasa impositiva. El Comite no tendra mas jurisdiccion que la
delegada por el Pueblo de conformidad con esta Ordenanza. El
Administrador de la Ciudad de Lodi, o quien este designe, debera brindar la
asistencia administrativa o tecnica razonable y requerida por el Comite a fin de
cumplir con sus responsabilidades o dar a conocer sus conclusiones.

D.	Reuniones. El Comite Supervisor de Ciudadanos se reunira
anualmente con fechas de reunion especificas que seran determinadas por
los miembros del Comite. Las reuniones del Comite Supervisor de
Ciudadanos estan sujetas a la Ley Brown. Las reuniones deberan ser
notificadas y abiertas al publico. Las actas y los informes del Comite son
una cuestion de registro publico y deben publicarse en un sitio web que
disponga la Ciudad. El Comite puede programar reuniones adicionales
cuando lo considere necesario. Todos los miembros del Comite deberan
asistir a una sesion de capacitacion y orientation antes de la primera
reunion ordinaria del Comite. Se espera que los miembros del Comite
asistan a todas las reuniones ordinarias. La ausencia a dos reuniones
consecutivas podria resultar en su remocion del Comite a criterio del Concejo
Municipal.

E.	Ooeraciones del Comite. El Comite Supervisor de Ciudadanos
seleccionara a los miembros que se desempenaran como Presidente y
Vicepresidente del Comite. Una persona del personal de la Ciudad sera
designada por el Administrador de la Ciudad, o por el designado del
Administrador de la Ciudad, para desempenarse como Secretario. El
Secretario sera responsable de preparar, publicar y distribuir el orden del
dfa, asi como de realizar las actas de cada reunion. Las actas aprobadas
deberan estar a disposicion del publico. Las decisiones, las opiniones, las
conclusiones y los procedimientos del Comite requeriran un voto de la
mayoria simple de aquellos miembros del Comite presentes. El requisito de
quorum para cualquier reunion sera de un minimo de tres (3) miembros.

F.	Vacantes. Los miembros del Comite pueden ser removidos del
Comite solamente por el Concejo Municipal en caso de ausencias reiteradas
a las reuniones, conducta indebida, incumplimiento de las calificaciones
establecidas en esta Seccion o por incapacidad o falta de disposicion para
cumplir con las obligaciones de un miembro del Comite. En caso de
remocion, renuncia o muerte, el Concejo Municipal debera designar a una
persona para ocupar el escano vacante.

G.	Miscelanea. Sujeto a las restricciones especificamente
consideradas en esta Seccion, el Comite puede preparar y adoptar sus
propios procedimientos y reglamentos internos estandares por el voto de la
mayoria. Todos los procedimientos y reglamentos del Comite Supervisor de
Ciudadanos quedan sujetos a la revision y aprobacion del Concejo
Municipal.

3.30.180	Informe v Auditoria Anual.

A.	Los ingresos provenientes del impuesto aplicado por el Capitulo
estaran sujetos a la auditoria anual realizada por el auditor
independiente de la Ciudad de los libros, registros, cuentas y
procedimientos fiscales de la Ciudad y cuyo informe esta en el
Informe Financiero Anual Integral de la Ciudad.

B.	Ademas de la auditoria anual, la Ciudad preparara un Informe
de Revision Anual, estableciendo el importe de los ingresos
recibidos del impuesto aplicado por este Capitulo, el monto de
los desembolsos y la description de los gastos. El proposito del
informe es asegurar la rendition de cuentas y el correcto
desembolso de los ingresos provenientes del impuesto aplicado
por este Capitulo. El Informe de Revision Anual sera presentado
en la Oficina del Secretario Municipal a mas tardar el 31 de enero
siguiente al ano fiscal en que se cobra el impuesto.

Seccion 2. Sin Obligation de Cuidar. Esta ordenanza no pretende ser, y
no se considerara ni dara lugar de manera alguna, a la imposition sobre la
Ciudad, o cualquier otro funcionario o empleado de la misma, de una
obligation de cuidar a las personas o propiedades dentro de la Ciudad o
fuera de ella como para dar una base de responsabilidad civil por danos,
excepto que se establezca lo contrario segun lo impuesto por la ley.

Seccion 3. Divisibilidad. Si alguna disposicion de esta ordenanza o su
aplicacion a alguna persona o circunstancia es considerada invalida por un
tribunal de jurisdiccion competente, el resto de esta ordenanza y la
aplicacion de dicha disposicion a otras personas o circunstancias no
resultaran afectadas por dicha invalidez. El Concejo Municipal de la Ciudad
de Lodi por la presente declara que habria adoptado cada una de las
disposiciones de esta ordenanza independientemente de la invalidez de
toda otra disposicion.

Seccion 4. Todas las ordenanzas y partes de ordenanzas en conflicto
con la presente son revocadas en tanto y en cuanto dicho conflicto pueda
existir.

Seccion 5. Cumolimiento de la Lev sobre la Calidad Ambiental de
California. La aprobacion de esta ordenanza esta exenta de la Ley sobre la
Calidad Ambiental de California (Secciones 21000, et seq., del Codigo de
Recursos Publicos, “CEQA” y Secciones 15000 et seq., del Cod. de Regul.
de Cal. 14, “Normas de CEQA”). Esta ordenanza aplica un impuesto
especial a las ventas que puede ser utilizado para cualquier proposito
legitimo del gobierno segun se indica en esta ordenanza. No es un
compromiso con algun proyecto especifico que pueda generar un impacto
fisico potencialmente significativo en el medio ambiente.

39-805S

SJ 024-061

Seccion 6. Codificacion. Suieto a la aprobacion de los votantes, en	ANEXO 1
consulta con el titular del cargo de Abogado de la Ciudad, por el presente se autoriza al titular del cargo de Secretario Municipal, y se le indica que codifique esta ordenanza en el Codigo Municipal de Lodi.	DE LA ORDENANZA QUE AGREGA EL CAPITULO 3.30 “IMPUESTO ESPECIAL AL USO DE BIENES Y LAS TRANSACCIONES
Seccion 7. Fecha de Viqencia. Si esta ordenanza es aprobada por los	PARA REPARACIONES, MANTENIMIENTO, MEJORASY ACTUALIZACIONES DE LOS PARQUES”
dos tercios de los votantes que votan en la cuestion en las elecciones del 8	
de noviembre de 2016, de conformidad con la Seccion 9217 del Codigo Electoral, esta ordenanza entrara en vigencia diez (10) dias despues que el Concejo Municipal declare los resultados de las elecciones.	PLAN DE GASTOS PARA PARQUES
Seccion 8. Certification v Publication. El titular del carqo de Secretario	
Municipal certificara la aprobacion final de esta ordenanza, la publicara tal como lo requiere la ley y enviara una copia certificada de la ordenanza adoptada a la Junta Directiva Estatal de Impuestos sobre Ventas.	
Aprobada el dia 20 de julio de 2016	
/f/ MARK CHANDLER	r \
Alcalde	
AVAL:	PR6XIMA pagina
/f/ JENNIFER M. FERRAIOLO,	
Secretaria Municipal	
Estado de California Condado de San Joaquin, ss.	V J
Yo, Jennifer M. Ferraiolo, Secretaria Municipal de la Ciudad de Lodi, por la presente certifico que la Ordenanza N° 1925 fue introducida en una reunion ordinaria del Concejo Municipal de la Ciudad de Lodi Nevada a cabo el 6 de julio de 2016, y fue a partir de entonces aprobada, adoptada y su impresion ordenada en una reunion ordinaria de dicho Concejo realizada el 20 de julio de 2016, con la siguiente votacion:	
SI: MIEMBROS DEL CONCEJO - Johnson, Kuehne Mounce, y el Alcalde Chandler	
NO: MIEMBROS DEL CONCEJO - Ninguno	
AUSENTES: MIEMBROS DEL CONCEJO - Nakanishi	
ABSTENCIONES: MIEMBROS DEL CONCEJO - Ninguno	
Certifico ademas que la Ordenanza N° 1925 fue aprobada y firmada por el Alcalde en la fecha de su aprobacion y la misma ha sido publicada de conformidad con la ley.	
/f/ JENNIFER M. FERRAIOLO	
Secretaria Municipal	
Aprobado de Conformidad:	
IV JANICE D. MAGDICH	
Abogada de la Ciudad	

39-806S	SJ	024-062

item # Plan de gastos para parques: Un octavo do centavo, 15 ados

2017/18 2018/19	2019/20	2020/21	2021/22	2022/23	2023/24	2024/25	2025/26	2026/27	2027/28	2028/29	2029/30	2030/31	2031/32

1 Reconstruccion de la Costa Sur del Parque Lodi Lake	$800,000

2	Control de la Erosion en Lodi Lake	$150,000	$1,000,000	$1,240,000

3	Renovacionesdel Parque Candy Cane	$115,000

4	Mejorasal Parque Legion	$100,000

5	Mejoras de campo/renovaciones del patio de juegos, Parque Emerson $175,000

6	Patio de juegos del Lado Norte del Parque Lodi Lake

7	Pavimento al Norte del Parque Lodi Lake

8	Reemplazo del techo del Anexo Parks

9	Rehabilitation del sendero del Area Natural

10	Comodidades para el Parque Canino

11	Instalacion del patio de juegos del Parque Beckman

12	Re-enyesado de la piscina del Parque Blakely/reparaciones

13	Reemplazo del Bano de la Costa Sur del Parque Lodi Lake

14	Mejorasen el Parque Peterson

15	Reemplazo de la iluminacion deportiva del Parque Salas

16	Reemplazo del patio de juegos del Parque Henry Glaves

17	Patio de juegos/picnic comunes de English Oaks

18	Paseo ribereno de Lodi Lake

19	Reemplazo/demo del Bano del Parque Vinewood

20	Superficie del patio de juegos del Parque Century Meadows

21	Mejoras a definir del Plan Maestro del Parque Lodi Lake

22	Mejoras al sistema de riego del Parque Vinewood

23	Sist. de calef., ventil. y Mde la Piscina, Hutchins Street Square

24	Reduce.: area del patio de juegos, repar.: paredes, English Oaks

25	Repar.: campo/renov. del bano: instal. acuatica, Parque Blakely

26	Retiro del bano del Parque Lawrence

27	Reconstruccion del estacionamiento del Parque Salas

28	Reparaciones en el Parque Kofu

29	Renovaciones del Complejo de Softball

30	Reempl. mecanico/Re-enyesado: piscina de ninos, Lake

31	Bomba elevadora de presion de riego del Parque Beckman

32	Construir atraccion de agua para ninos en lugar a definir

33	Reemplazo de la iluminacion en el Campo Zupo

34	Reparaciones al Campo Chapman

35	Reparaciones de las butacas del Campo Zupo

36	Reemplazo mecanico de la instalacion acuatica

37	Nuevo patio de juegos en los parques Borchardty Vinewood

38	Refugio para picnic en el Parque Beckman
Reemplazo del patio de juegos del Parque Century

39	Reemplazo del bano al Norte del Parque Lodi Lake

40	Reemplazo del Patio de Juegos del Parque Salas

41	Reemplazo	del	patio de juegos del	Parque	Lawrence

42	Reemplazo	del	patio de juegos del	Parque	Peterson

43	Renovaciones del cesped del campo de juego, Campo Zupo

44	Reemplazo de los banos del Parque Emerson

45	Mejoras: taller de Mecanica Parks

46	Renovaciones a los Banos/Centro Comunitario, Parque Hale

47	Reemplazo: cancha de deportes/patio de juegos, Parque Blakely

48	Reemplazo	del	patio de juegos del	Parque	Hale

49	Reemplazo	del	patio de juegos de Century Meadows

50	Reempl.: revestimiento de la Piscina, Hutchins Street Square

51	Reemplazo del patio de juegos de Hutchins Street Square

52	Renovaciones a los banos/concesion del Parque Kofu

53	Renovacion del patio de juegos/bahos del Parque Katzakian

54	Reemplazo del patio de juegos del Parque Van Buskirk

55	Renovaciones al Parque Lawrence, a definir

56	Reconstruccion del estacionamiento del Parque Hale

57	Renovaciones de los banos del Parque Salas

58	Reparaciones de los asientos de las gradas del Parque Salas

59	Reempl: aparatos del patio de juegos/zonas de calda desgastados	$5,000	$5,000	$5,000
60	Reemplazo y reparaciones de mobiliario/refugiosdel parque	$35,000	$35,000	$30,000
61	Reemplazo/reparacion/instalacion de bebederos	$10,000	$10,000	$10,000
62	Seguridad para los arboles (poda, retiro)	$75,000	$50,000	$40,000
63	Readaptacion/mantenimiento del cesped	$20,000	$20,000	$20,000
64	Mejorasen Grape Bowl (moment, interrumpidas)	$50,000	$50,000	$50,000
65	Reparaciones anuales en Skate Park	$5,000	$5,000	$5,000
66	Mejoras/reparaciones del sistema de riego del parque	$35,000	$25,000	
67	Manten./renov.: estacionamiento (moment, interrumpidos)		$25,000	
	Total	$1,400,000 $1,400,000		$1,400,000

$225,000

$175,000

$200,000

$750,000

$85,000

$180,000

$25,000

$200,000

$80,000 $80,000

$400,000

$45,000

$300,000

$180,000	$225,000

$245,000
$675,000
$255,000

$55,000

$500,000 $500,000 $500,000 $500,000

$150,000

$350,000

$55,000

$80,000	$405,000

$10,000
$500,000
$142,000

$575,000

$20,000

$60,000

$200,000

$150,000

$160,000

$450,000

$40,000

$200,000 $200,000

$225,000

$180,000

$400,000

$225,000

$175,000

$225,000

$85,000

$300,000

$80,000

$400,000

$300,000

$180,000

$200,000

$75,000

$225,000

$150,000

$225,000

$5,000

$5,000	$5,000	$5,000	$5,000	$5,000	$5,000	$5,000	$5,000	$5,000	$5,000	$5,000	$5,000

$30,000	$30,000	$35,000	$40,000	$35,000	$40,000	$10,000	$35,000	$40,000	$35,000	$35,000	$35,000

$10,000	$10,000	$10,000	$10,000	$10,000	$10,000	$10,000	$10,000	$10,000	$10,000	$10,000	$10,000

$40,000	$40,000	$40,000	$40,000	$40,000	$40,000	$40,000	$40,000	$40,000	$40,000	$40,000	$40,000

$20,000	$30,000	$20,000	$20,000	$40,000	$120,000	$115,000	$100,000	$120,000	$20,000	$20,000	$20,000

$50,000	$50,000	$50,000	$50,000	$50,000	$50,000	$50,000	$50,000	$50,000	$50,000	$50,000	$50,000

$5,000	$5,000	$5,000	$5,000	$5,000	$5,000	$5,000	$5,000	$5,000	$5,000	$5,000	$5,000

$35,000 $15,000 $38,000 $10,000	$75,000 $100,000	$50,000 $55,000

$25,000	$25,000	$25,000	$25,000	$25,000	$25,000	$25,000	$25,000	$25,000	$25,000	$25,000

$1,400,000	$1,400,000	$1,400,000	$1,400,000	$1,400,000	$1,400,000	$1,400,000	$1,400,000	$1,400,000	$1,400,000	$1,400,000	$1,400,000

Totales del proyecto
$800,000
$2,390,000
$115,000
$325,000
$350,000
$200,000
$750,000
$85,000
$180,000
$25,000
$200,000
$160,000
$400,000
$45,000
$300,000
$405,000
$245,000
$675,000
$255,000
$55,000
$2,000,000
$150,000
$350,000
$55,000
$485,000
$10,000
$500,000
$142,000
$575,000
$20,000
$60,000
$200,000
$150,000
$160,000
$450,000
$40,000
$400,000
$225,000
$180,000
$400,000
$225,000
$175,000
$225,000
$85,000
$300,000
$80,000
$400,000
$300,000
$180,000
$200,000
$75,000
$225,000
$150,000
$225,000
$0
$0
$0
$0
$5,000
$75,000
$500,000
$150,000
$645,000
$705,000
$750,000
$75,000
$438,000
$300,000
$21,000,000

39-807S

SJ 024-063

ANALISIS IMPARCIAL DE LA MEDIDA R

MEDIDA DE REPARACIONES, MANTENIMIENTO, MEJORAS Y
ACTUALIZACIONES DE LOS PARQUES

ANALISIS IMPARCIAL DE LA ABOGADA DE LA CIUDAD

La Medida R busca la aprobacion de los votantes de un impuesto especial al
uso de bienes y las transacciones temporario (comunmente denominado un
“impuesto a las ventas”) de un octavo de centavo (0.125%). Si es aprobado, el
impuesto a las ventas de un octavo de centavo se pagaria ademas del actual
impuesto a las ventas y seria cobrado por la Junta Directiva Estatal de
Impuestos sobre Ventas de California en el mismo momento y de la misma
manera que el impuesto a las ventas existente.

La seccion 7285.91 del Codigo de Ingresos e Impuestos de California autoriza
al Concejo Municipal a aplicar un impuesto con fines especiales a una tasa del

0.125 por ciento o cualquier multiplo del mismo, siempre que el impuesto sea
aprobado con un voto de los 2/3 de todos los miembros del Concejo Municipal
y que el impuesto sea aprobado por los 2/3 de los votantes en una eleccion
general. Los ingresos provenientes del impuesto especial estan legalmente
restringidos a los propositos identificados en la medida de la boleta electoral y
no pueden ser reasignados a otros propositos para otras operaciones,
programas o servicio de la Ciudad sin la aprobacion de los votantes.

La Medida R requiere que los ingresos adicionales provenientes del impuesto
sean utilizados para reparaciones y mantenimiento de los parques de la
Ciudad, ademas de mejorar los equipamientos y la infraestructura de los
parques, incluyendo la reconstruction de las carreteras y los estacionamientos
de los parques, la rehabilitation de los senderos de los parques, la reparation
de la erosion en el area del anfiteatro de Lodi Lake, el reemplazo del
equipamiento del patio de juegos, la renovation de los banos de los parques,
el reemplazo de las mesas para picnic, bancos y bebederos, segun lo
especificado en un plan de desembolsos detallado incorporado en la
Ordenanza.

Si la Medida R es aprobada, el impuesto para propositos especiales
aumentara el impuesto a las ventas local en la Ciudad de Lodi de la actual
tasa del 8% al 8.125% y estara vigente desde el 1° de abril de 2017 hasta el
31 de marzo de 2032. Cualquier extension del impuesto mas alia del 31 de
marzo de 2032, requeriria la aprobacion adicional de los 2/3 de los votantes
en una eleccion general.

La Ciudad estima que la Medida R generara $1,400,000 en ingresos anuales.
La medida requiere que los ingresos adicionales provenientes del impuesto
sean depositados en un fondo especial y que los auditores independientes de
la Ciudad auditen anualmente el cobro, la administration y el desembolso de
los ingresos provenientes del impuesto durante su auditoria anual de las
finanzas de la Ciudad.

La Medida R establece tambien un comite supervisor de ciudadanos para
supervisar los desembolsos de los ingresos adicionales provenientes del
impuesto y exige que el comite se reuna anualmente para revisar los
desembolsos del ano anterior de los ingresos provenientes del impuesto
aumentado y que presente un informe al Concejo Municipal que indique como
se gastaron los fondos.

La Medida R se coloca en la boleta electoral por action del Concejo Municipal
de la Ciudad de Lodi (Ordenanza N° 2016-126).

/f/ Janice D. Magdich
Abogada de la Ciudad
Ciudad de Lodi

ARGUMENTO A FAVOR DE LA MEDIDA R

jSI en la Medida R para Recreacion y para salvar al Parque Lodi Lake, la joya
de la corona de nuestro sistema de parques!

Pocas comunidades estan bendecidas con un parque de semejante belleza
natural que todos pueden disfrutar. Pero el Parque Lodi Lake esta en peligro
por el desgaste de la erosion que esta consumiendo en la orilla norte del
parque y en la orilla que protege a Pigs Lake. Con tan solo diez pies restantes,
es solo cuestion de tiempo para que Pigs Lake sea tragado por el rio.
Lamentablemente, eso significara la inundation del area natural, que tiene una
elevation a algunos pies debajo del rio, a menos que tomemos medidas.

La Medida R invertira estimadamente $21 millones en 15 anos en las
reparaciones de Lodi Lake, y en las mejoras y reparaciones atrasadas en otros
parques, tales como reemplazar las estructuras obsoletas de los patios de
juego y los banos anosos, y crear nuevos senderos de excursion. No obstante,
el retorno a la comunidad excederia ampliamente esa inversion. Los parques
saludables y bien mantenidos promueven la vitalidad economica, mejoran la
calidad de vida de los residentes y aumentan los valores de sus hogares.

Como la Medida R es un aumento gradual del impuesto a las ventas, su
impacto se esparciria entre todos los que vienen a Lodi de compras, no solo a
los residentes de Lodi. Aumenta el impuesto a las ventas de Lodi en 0.125 por
ciento, o un centavo sobre cada $8 gastados en articulos imponibles. Totaliza
casi $3.50 por hogar por mes.

Es un pequeno monto que ayuda mucho, recaudando estimadamente $1.4
millones por ano. Ni un centavo de los nuevos ingresos iria para las pensiones
o los beneficios de los empleados publicos o para el personal de la Ciudad.
Todo vuelve en reparaciones y mejoras que podemos ver y tocar, como un
paseo ribereno en el Parque Lodi Lake, comodidades para el parque canino y
mejores campos de deportes, no en cosas cuyo mantenimiento no podemos
costear.

Por favor, VOTE SI por la Medida R el 8 de noviembre de 2016.

Presentado por:

/f/ Mark Chandler, Alcalde
/f/ David Phillips

/f/ Larry Long, Presidente de la Comision de Recreacion
/f/ Annette V. Murdaca

/f/ Robert Paine, Boosters of Boys and Girls Sports

ARGUMENTO EN CONTRA DE LA MEDIDA R

Falta de Rendition de Cuentas: una razon para votar NO.

La medida del impuesto a las ventas aumenta el impuesto a las ventas de Lodi
del 8.0% al 8.125%. Es mas economico comprar bienes en Lodi que en
Stockton donde el impuesto a las ventas es del 9%. Segun la Fundacion de
Impuestos, California tiene el impuesto a las ventas mas alto de la nation. El
Condado de LA y algunos condados del Area de la Bahia avanzan poco a
poco al 10% y 11%.

39-808S

SJ 024-064

Lodi tiene una poblacion de 63,000 residentes y una tasa de desempleo de
alrededor del 10%. La ciudad tiene 397 empleados. La ciudad aumento los
salarios en 2015, 2016 y 2017. ^Recibio usted un aumento de salario el ano
pasado? ^Por que la ciudad aumento los salarios cuando los costos de
pensiones estan escalando? La deuda de pensiones no financiadas de
Lodi es de mas de $92 millones.

Los costos de las pensiones en aumento reducen los servicios municipales
como el mantenimiento a los parques, las carreteras, las mejoras y
reparaciones. Los ingresos disponibles son desviados para financiar los
aumentos anuales de las pensiones.

Durante las buenas epocas financieras la ciudad ignoro el mantenimiento y la
reparacion de los parques existentes. La ciudad ha actuado
irresponsablemente aumentando los salarios de los empleados municipales
que incrementa la futura deuda por pensiones. El presupuesto para Parques y
Recreacion es de $6.2 millones. ^Por que Parques y Recreacion no ha
apartado dinero para mantenimiento y reparaciones?

Un impuesto a las ventas alto es un impuesto regresivo. Perjudica a la clase
media y a las personas con ingresos fijos y mas bajos. Aumenta el costo de
los bienes y servicios.

Falta de Rendicion de Cuentas: una razon para votar NO en la Medida R.

Presentado por:

/f/ Gregory P. Goehring
/f/ Alexander S. Aliferis
/f/ Jim Shoemaker

REFUTACION AL
ARGUMENTO A FAVOR DE LA MEDIDA R

Falta de Rendicion de Cuentas: Otra razon para votar NO.

La mayoria del presupuesto de la ciudad es salarios/beneficios. ^Que es lo
que usted esta realmente pagando?

^Que es lo que la ciudad no le dice? Es terrible que la ciudad tenga una
deuda por pensiones no financiadas de $92 millones.

^Cual es la garantia de que el aumento del impuesto para fondos generales
no se utilizara para pagar las pensiones en aumento, las deudas y los costos
de salarios futuros? jSimplemente diga No!

El Director de Servicios de Parques, Recreacion y Cultura de Lodi en 2015
gano $176,948.18 en beneficios y pagas totales. ^Usted gana esta cantidad?
Un superintendente del parque gano $128,525.93 en beneficios y pagas
totales. ^Es alii a donde van sus dolares provenientes de impuestos?

Segun el Centro de Pollticas de California, los empleados de la seguridad
publica (policla y bomberos) en California vieron aumentar su compensacion
total del 20% al 30% mas que el indice de inflation durante el periodo 1991-
2011.

Segun transparentcalifornia.com, en 2015, mas de 200 empleados
municipales de Lodi ganaron mas de $100,000 por ano en beneficios y pagas
totales.

Un impuesto a las ventas alto es un impuesto regresivo. Perjudica a la clase
media y a las personas con ingresos fijos y mas bajos. Aumenta el costo de
los bienes y servicios.

El problema de la Ciudad no es una falta de ingresos provenientes del
impuesto a las ventas sino que se gasta demasiado en paquetes de
compensacion y en beneficios de las pensiones en aumento.

Falta de Rendicion de Cuentas: Otra razon para votar NO en la Medida R.

Presentado por:

/f/ Gregory P. Goehring
/f/ Alexander S. Aliferis
IV Jim Shoemaker

REFUTACI6N al
ARGUMENTO EN CONTRA DE LA MEDIDA R

Ni una moneda de diez centavos de los ingresos de la Medida R ira para los
salarios, las pensiones o los beneficios de la Ciudad. Cada parte de los
ingresos ira para salvar al Parque Lodi Lake de la erosion, reemplazando el
equipamiento desgastado de los patios de juegos en todos nuestros parques,
reparando los senderos existentes y construyendo nuevos, y para otras
mejoras atrasadas.

La mayoria del sistema de parques de Lodi es como una casa de 50 anos de
antiguedad que no ha reemplazado los electrodomesticos, las alfombras, la
pintura y el techo originales. Es hora de mejoras. No podemos estirar nuestra
mano y esperar que alguien nos rescate. Debemos esforzarnos y ayudarnos a
nosotros mismos. Numerosos estudios destacan el beneficio de un sistema de
parques saludable en la calidad de vida de una comunidad, su salud publica,
los valores de sus propiedades y su desarrollo economico.

Los que se oponen a la Medida R no mencionan su alternativa a un aumento
mmimo en el impuesto a las ventas. ^Favorecen la erosion continua en Lodi
Lake y el pavimento cada vez mas desgastado? ^Se oponen a que nuestros
ninos visiten un patio de juegos mas seguro? ^Creen que alguien mas
pagara? La dotation de personal de los parques ha sido reducida en un tercio
los ultimos 10 anos ya que los recursos de la Ciudad cada vez son mas
utilizados para pagar las necesidades de Salud Publica, dejando pocos
dolares para mantenimiento y reparaciones adicionales de los parques.

La mitad de los hogares de Lodi pagaran menos de $20 al ano. La Medida R
incluye un comite supervisor de ciudadanos para asegurar que los parques
sean reparados y mejorados segun lo prometido. Ninguna parte del dinero
adicional ira para la jubilation o los beneficios de salud de los empleados
publicos. Los beneficios pertenecen a la comunidad. jVote SI en la Medida R!

Presentado por:

IV Mark Chandler, Alcalde
IV David Phillips
IV Annette Murdaca

/f/ Larry Long, Comisionado de Recreacion de Lodi
IV Robert Paine, Boosters of Boys & Girls Sports

SJ 024-065

CIUDAD DE LODI

MEDIDA S		
s	^Debera la Ciudad de Lodi combatir el delito y aumentar los programas para reducir la violencia de las pandillas contratando policlas adicionales y un interventor de pandillas, restablecer el servicio del Camion de Bomberos 1 del centra urbano y aumentar el entrenamiento, mediante la aprobacion de un impuesto al uso de bienes y las transacciones (“ventas”) de un cuarto de centavo por dolar (0.25%), que se estima que recaudara $2,800,000 al ano, con el 64% para policia, 36% para bomberos, con vencimiento en 15 anos, todos los ingresos aplicados exclusivamente a estos propositos especlficos, sujeto a la supervision ciudadana y auditorlas anuales?	SI
		NO

TEXTO COMPLETO DE LA MEDIDA S

ORDENANZA N° 1926

UNA ORDENANZA DEL CONCEJO MUNICIPAL DE LA CIUDAD
DE LODI QUE ENMIENDA EL TITULO 3 DEL CODIGO
MUNICIPAL DE LODI - INGRESOS Y FINANZAS AGREGANDO
EL CAPITULO 3.40, “IMPUESTO ESPECIAL AL USO DE BIENES
Y LAS TRANSACCIONES PARA LA SEGURIDAD PUBLICA,”
QUE APLICA UN IMPUESTO ESPECIAL AL USO DE BIENES Y
LAS TRANSACCIONES DE UN CUARTO DE CENTAVO POR
DOLAR (0.25%) PARA AUMENTAR LA DOTACION DE
PERSONAL DE POLICIA Y BOMBEROS Y MEJORAR EL
ENTRENAMIENTO PARA EL PERSONAL DE LA SEGURIDAD
PUBLICA, QUE SERA COBRADO Y ADMINISTRADO POR LA
JUNTA DIRECTIVA ESTATAL DE IMPUESTOS SOBRE VENTAS
SUJETO A LA APROBACION DE LOS VOTANTES

El Concejo Municipal de la Ciudad de Lodi por la presente concluye lo siguiente:

A.	Se necesitan ingresos adicionales para aumentar la cantidad de
agentes de policia jurados de Lodi para reducir los disturbios publicos y delictivos
asociados con los efectos del Proyecto de Ley de la Asamblea 109 (Realineacion
de la Seguridad Publica) y otras actividades delictivas en la Ciudad, as! como
para aumentar los niveles de dotacion de bomberos para restablecer el servicio
del Camion de Bomberos 1 del centra urbano, y mejorar el entrenamiento del
personal de la seguridad publica (policia y bomberos).

B.	El presupuesto de la Ciudad adoptado para el AF 2016/17 no
tiene ingresos suficientes para aumentar los niveles de dotacion dentro de los
departamentos de policia y bomberos o para financiar el entrenamiento
avanzado para el personal de la seguridad publica. La prevision financiera de la
Ciudad para los proximos cinco anos sigue reflejando una falta de recursos
disponibles para aumentar los niveles de dotacion del personal de la seguridad
publica o para aumentar el presupuesto para su entrenamiento.

C.	El Concejo Municipal puede proponer que los votantes aprueben
impuesto especial al uso de bienes y las transacciones (impuesto a las ventas)
para recaudar fondos adicionales para aumentar la cantidad de agentes de
policia jurados, contratar a un trabajador de alcance social para jovenes de
medio tiempo adicional para que trabaje en la intervencion y prevencion de
pandillas, aumentar los niveles de dotacion del personal de bomberos para
restablecer el servicio del Camion de Bomberos 1 del centra urbano, as! como
mejorar el entrenamiento del personal de la seguridad publica.

D.	Un impuesto especial al uso de bienes y las transacciones es un
tipo de impuesto especial que puede ser aplicado por el Concejo Municipal para
lograr estos propositos.

E.	De conformidad con la Seccion 7285.91 del Codigo de Ingresos
e Impuestos, el Concejo Municipal puede aplicar un impuesto especial al uso de
bienes y las transacciones para propositos generales a la tasa de un octavo del
uno por ciento (0.125%) o un multiplo de este, si la ordenanza que propone el
impuesto es aprobada por el voto de los dos tercios de todos los miembros del
Concejo Municipal y si posteriormente el impuesto es aprobado por el voto de los
dos tercios de los votantes calificados de la Ciudad que votan en una eleccion.

F.	Un impuesto especial al uso de bienes y las transacciones de un
cuarto del uno por ciento (0.25%) generarla los ingresos suficientes para
aumentar la cantidad de agentes de policia, financiar su equipamiento de
seguridad, y contratar a un trabajador de alcance social para jovenes de medio
tiempo para que trabaje en la intervencion y prevencion de pandillas. Ademas, el
Camion de Bomberos 1 del centra urbano podria volver a funcionar al aumentar
la dotacion de personal, y brindar entrenamiento avanzado al personal de la
seguridad publica. El impuesto especial generarla ingresos adicionales
estimados de $2,800,000 anuales, asumiendo que las ventas imponibles
continuen en su tasa estimada, para ser distribuidos el 64% para la Policia
($1,792,000 estimados por ano) y el 36% para Bomberos ($1,008,000 estimados
por ano), (acumulativamente, y $26,880,000 estimados para la Policia y
$15,120,000 para Bomberos en quince anos).

G.	La Seccion 53724(c) del Codigo de Gobierno requiere la
consolidacion de una eleccion sobre un impuesto especial en una eleccion
primaria de todo el estado, una eleccion general de todo el estado o una eleccion
local regularmente programada en la cual todos los electores del distrito o
gobierno local tengan derecho a votar.

H.	El 8 de noviembre de 2016 es la fecha de las elecciones
generales de todo el estado y es la siguiente fecha electoral elegible para incluir
esta medida del impuesto especial.

POR LO TANTO, AHORA, EL CONCEJO MUNICIPAL DE LA CIUDAD DE LODI
APRUEBA:

Seccion 1. Por la presente se enmienda el Tltulo 3 del Codigo Municipal de
Lodi - Ingresos y Finanzas mediante el agregado del Capltulo 3.40, “Impuesto
Especial al Uso de Bienes y Transacciones para la Seguridad Publica,” y debe
decir lo siguiente:

CAPITULO 3.40

ORDENANZA DEL IMPUESTO ESPECIAL AL USO DE BIENES Y LAS
TRANSACCIONES PARA LA SEGURIDAD PUBLICA

Secciones:

3.40.010	Titulo

3.40.020	Fecha de Entrada en Vigor

3.40.030	Proposito

S-901S

SJ 024-066

3.40.040	Contrato con el Estado

3.40.050	Tasa del Impuesto a las Transacciones

3.40.060	Lugarde Venta

3.40.070	Tasa del Impuesto al Uso de Bienes

3.40.080	Fecha de Terminacion

3.40.090	Adopcion de las Disposiciones de la Ley del Estado

3.40.100	Limitaciones a la Adopcion de la Ley del Estado y al Cobra

de los Impuestos al Uso de Bienes

3.40.110	Permiso No Requerido

3.40.120	Exenciones y Exclusiones

3.40.130	Enmiendas

3.40.140	Prohibition de Impedir el Cobra

3.40.150	Reembolsos y Creditos; Juicios y Procedimientos Legales

3.40.160	Fondo Especial; Uso Restringido de los Ingresos Provenientes
del Impuesto y Plan de Desembolsos

3.40.170	Establecimiento del Comite Supervisor del Impuesto Especial a
las Ventas para la Seguridad Publica

3.40.180	Informe y Auditoria Anual

3.40.010	Tltulo. Esta ordenanza sera conocida como la Ordenanza
del Impuesto Especial al Uso de Bienes y las Transacciones para la
Seguridad Publica de la Ciudad de Lodi. En adelante, la Ciudad de Lodi
sera denominada la "Ciudad.” Esta ordenanza sera de aplicacion en el
territorio incorporado de la Ciudad.

3.40.020	Fecha de Entrada en Vigor. "Fecha de entrada en vigor"
significa el primer dia del primer trimestre calendario que comienza mas de
110 dias despues de la adopcion de esta ordenanza, siendo la fecha de
adopcion la que se establece a continuation.

3.40.030	Proposito. Esta ordenanza se adopta para lograr los
siguientes propositos, entre otros, e indica que las disposiciones de la
presente sean interpretadas de manera de cumplir esos fines:

A.	Establecer un impuesto al uso de bienes y las transacciones
al por menor de acuerdo con las disposiciones de la Parte 1.6 (a partir de la
Seccion 7251) de la Division 2 del Codigo de Ingresos e Impuestos y la
Seccion 7285.91 de la Parte 1.7 de la Division 2 que autoriza a la Ciudad a
adoptar esta ordenanza impositiva que entrara en vigor si dos tercios de los
electores que votan en la medida votan para aprobar la aplicacion del
impuesto en una election convocada para ese fin.

B.	Adoptar una ordenanza sobre el impuesto al uso de bienes y
las transacciones al por menor que incorpora disposiciones identicas a las
de la Ley del Impuesto a las Ventas y el Uso de Bienes del Estado de
California en tanto y en cuanto esas disposiciones no sean inconsistentes
con los requisitos y limitaciones contenidos en la Parte 1.6 de la Division 2
del Codigo de Ingresos e Impuestos.

C.	Adoptar una ordenanza del impuesto al uso de bienes y las
transacciones al por menor que aplica un impuesto y establece una medida
por la cual pueda ser administrado y recaudado por la Junta Directiva
Estatal de Impuestos sobre Ventas de manera tal de adaptarse a, en la
mayor medida posible, y de exigir la menor desviacion posible de, los
procedimientos estatutarios y administrativos existentes seguidos por la
Junta Directiva Estatal de Impuestos sobre Ventas en la administracion y el
cobra de los Impuestos a las Ventas y el Uso de bienes del Estado de
California.

D.	Adoptar una ordenanza del impuesto al uso de bienes y las
transacciones al por menor que pueda ser administrado de la manera que
sea, en la mayor medida posible, consistente con las disposiciones de la
Parte 1.6 de la Division 2 del Codigo de Ingresos e Impuestos, que minimice
el costo de recaudar los impuestos al uso de bienes y las transacciones, y al
mismo tiempo, reduzca la carga de mantener el registro de las personas

sujetas a la aplicacion de impuestos bajo las disposiciones de esta
ordenanza.

3.40.040	Contrato con el Estado. Antes de la fecha de entrada en
vigor, la Ciudad debera contratar a la Junta Directiva Estatal de Impuestos
sobre Ventas para que realice todas las funciones relacionadas con la
administracion y la operation de esta ordenanza del impuesto al uso de
bienes y las transacciones; siempre que, si la Ciudad no hubiera contratado
a la Junta Directiva Estatal de Impuestos sobre Ventas antes de la fecha de
entrada en vigor, debera hacerlo de todas maneras y en ese caso, la fecha
de entrada en vigor sera el primer dia del primer trimestre calendario luego
de la ejecucion de dicho contrato.

3.40.050	Tasa del Impuesto a las Transacciones. Por el privilegio de
vender bienes personales tangibles al por menor, por la presente se aplica
un impuesto a todos los comerciantes minoristas del territorio incorporado
de la Ciudad a la tasa de un cuarto por ciento (0.25%) de los ingresos
brutos de cualquier comerciante minorista provenientes de la venta de todo
bien personal tangible vendido al por menor en dicho territorio el dia de la
fecha de entrada en vigor de esta ordenanza y con posterioridad a la
misma.

3.40.060	Luaar de Venta. A los fines de esta ordenanza, todas las
ventas al por menor se realizan en el domicilio comercial del comerciante
minorista a menos que el bien personal tangible vendido sea enviado por el
comerciante minorista o su agente a un destino fuera del estado o a una
empresa de transportes comun para su envio a un destino fuera del estado.
Los ingresos brutos provenientes de dichas ventas incluiran los cargos por
envio, cuando esos cargos esten sujetos al impuesto a las ventas y el uso
de bienes del estado, independientemente del lugar al que se realice el
envio. En caso de que un comerciante minorista no tenga un domicilio
comercial permanente en el Estado o que tenga mas de un domicilio
comercial, el o los lugar(es) en donde se realicen las ventas al por menor
seran determinados segun las reglas y reglamentaciones a ser prescritas y
adoptadas por la Junta Directiva Estatal de Impuestos sobre Ventas.

3.40.070	Tasa del Impuesto al Uso de Bienes. Por la presente se
aplica un impuesto al consumo especlfico sobre el almacenamiento, uso u
otro consumo en la Ciudad de bienes personales tangibles adquiridos a un
comerciante minorista en la fecha de entrada en vigor de esta ordenanza y
despues de la misma, para su almacenamiento, uso u otro consumo en
dicho territorio a la tasa de un cuarto de centavo (0.25%) del precio de venta
de los bienes. El precio de venta debera incluir los cargos por envio cuando
dichos cargos esten sujetos al impuesto al uso de bienes o las ventas del
Estado, independientemente del lugar al que se realice el envio.

3.40.080.	Fecha de Terminacion. La autoridad para gravar el

impuesto aplicado por esta ordenanza vencera al cumplirse los quince anos
de la fecha de entrada en vigor, a menos que sea extendido por el voto
mayoritario de los dos tercios de los votantes de la Ciudad.

3.40.090	Adopcion de las Disposiciones de la Lev del Estado.

Excepto que se establezca lo contrario en esta ordenanza y excepto hasta
la medida en que sean inconsistentes con las disposiciones de la Parte 1.6
de la Division 2 del Codigo de Ingresos e Impuestos, todas las disposiciones
de la Parte 1 (a partir de la Seccion 6001) de la Division 2 del Codigo de
Ingresos e Impuestos son adoptadas y forman parte de esta ordenanza
como si estuvieran totalmente enunciadas en la misma.

3.40.100.	Limitaciones a la Adopcion de la Lev del Estado v al Cobra de los
Impuestos al Uso de Bienes. Al adoptar las disposiciones de la Parte 1 de la
Division 2 del Codigo de Ingresos e Impuestos:

A. Siempre que se mencione o se haga referencia al Estado de
California como la agenda impositiva, se debera reemplazar con el nombre

S-902S

SJ 024-067

de esta Ciudad. Sin embargo, esa sustitucion no se realizara cuando:

1.	La palabra “Estado” sea utilizada como parte del cargo
del Controlador del Estado, Tesorero del Estado, Junta de
Compensacion de Victimas de California y de Reclamaciones de
Gobierno, Junta Directiva Estatal de Impuestos sobre Ventas,
Tesoreria del Estado o la Constitution del Estado de California;

2.	El resultado de esa sustitucion requeriria que se tome
alguna medida a favor o en contra de esta Ciudad o cualquier agenda,
funcionario o empleado de la misma en lugar de hacerlo a favor o en
contra de la Junta Directiva Estatal de Impuestos sobre Ventas, en la
realization de las funciones inherentes a la administration u operation
de esta ordenanza.

3.	En	aquellas secciones,	incluyendo,	pero	no

necesariamente limitadas a las que se refieren a los Ifmites exteriores
del Estado de California, en donde el resultado de la sustitucion seria
para:

a.	Brindar una exencion de este impuesto con
respecto a ciertas ventas, almacenamiento, uso u otro
consumo de bienes personales tangibles que de otra
manera no estarian exentos de este impuesto mientras
estas ventas, almacenamiento, uso u otro consumo
continuen sujetos a impuestos por el Estado bajo las
disposiciones de la Parte 1 de la Division 2 del Codigo
de Ingresos e Impuestos, o;

b.	Aplicar este impuesto con respecto a ciertas
ventas, almacenamiento, uso u otro consumo de bienes
personales tangibles que no estarian sujetos a
impuestos por parte del estado bajo la mencionada
disposition de ese codigo.

4.	En las Secciones 6701, 6702 (excepto en la ultima
oration de la misma), 6711, 6715, 6737, 6797 o 6828
del Codigo de Ingresos e Impuestos.

B. La palabra “Ciudad” sustituira a la palabra “Estado” en la
frase “comerciante minorista que realiza actividades en este Estado” en la
Seccion 6203 y en la definition de esa frase en la Seccion 6203.

3.40.110.	Permiso No Reauerido. Si el permiso de vendedor ha sido emitido
a un comerciante minorista bajo la Seccion 6067 del Codigo de Ingresos e
Impuestos, esta ordenanza no exigira un permiso adicional al comerciante.

3.40.120.	Exenciones v Exclusiones.

A.	Quedara excluido de la medida del impuesto a las
transacciones y del impuesto al uso de bienes el monto de cualquier
impuesto a las ventas o impuesto al uso de bienes aplicado por el Estado de
California o por cualquier ciudad, ciudad y condado, o condado conforme a
la Ley Uniforme del Impuesto sobre las Ventas y el Uso de Bienes Locales
Bradley-Burns o el monto de cualquier impuesto a las transacciones o al uso
de bienes administrado por el estado.

B.	Estan exentos del calculo del monto del impuesto a las
transacciones los ingresos brutos provenientes de:

1.	Las ventas de bienes personales tangibles, a exception
del combustible o los productos derivados del petroleo, a los
operadores de aviones para ser utilizados o consumidos
principalmente fuera del condado en el que se realiza la venta y
directa y exclusivamente para el uso de esos aviones como medios de

transporte comunes de pasajeros o bienes bajo la autoridad de las
leyes de este Estado, de los Estados Unidos o de cualquier gobierno
extranjero.

2.	Las ventas de bienes a ser utilizados fuera de la Ciudad
que se transportan a un destino fuera de la misma, conforme al
contrato de venta, mediante el envlo a ese destino realizado por el
comerciante minorista o su agente, o por el comerciante minorista a
una empresa de transporte para su transporte a un consignatario en
ese lugar. A los fines de este parrafo, el envlo a un destino fuera de la
Ciudad quedara concluido:

a.	Con respecto a los vehlculos (excepto los vehlculos
comerciales) sujetos a ser registrados conforme al
Capltulo 1 (a partir de la Seccion 4000) de la Division 3
del Codigo de Vehlculos, los aviones autorizados en
cumplimiento de la Seccion 21411 del Codigo de
Servicios Publicos, y los buques no documentados
registrados bajo el Capltulo 2 de la Division 3.5 (a partir
de la Seccion 9840) del Codigo de Vehlculos, mediante
el registro en una direccion fuera de la Ciudad y
mediante una declaracion bajo pena de perjurio,
firmada por el comprador, indicando que esa direccion
es, de hecho, su principal lugar de residencia; y

b.	Con respecto a los vehlculos comerciales, mediante
el registro en un domicilio comercial fuera de la Ciudad
y la declaracion bajo pena de perjurio, firmada por el
comprador, de que el vehlculo sera operado desde esa
direccion.

3.	La venta de bienes personales tangibles si el vendedor
esta obligado a proporcionar los bienes por un precio fijo de
conformidad con un contrato concertado antes de la fecha de entrada
en vigor de esta ordenanza.

4.	Un arrendamiento de bienes personales tangibles que
continua con la venta de dicho bien, por un perlodo de tiempo durante
el cual el arrendador esta obligado a arrendar el bien por un monto
fijado en el arrendamiento antes de la fecha de entrada en vigor de
esta ordenanza.

5.	A los fines de las subsecciones (3) y (4) de esta
seccion, la venta o el arrendamiento de los bienes personales
tangibles se considerara no obligado de conformidad con un contrato o
arrendamiento por algun perlodo de tiempo durante el cual cualquiera
de las partes involucradas tiene el derecho incondicional de rescindir
el contrato o el arrendamiento con la debida notification,
independientemente de que ese derecho sea ejercido o no.

C.	Quedan exentos del impuesto al uso de bienes que aplica
esta ordenanza, el almacenamiento, uso u otro consumo en esta Ciudad de
bienes personales tangibles:

1.	Los ingresos brutos provenientes de la venta de
aquellos bienes que hayan estado sujetos a un impuesto a las
transacciones bajo una ordenanza del impuesto al uso de bienes y las
transacciones administrada por el estado.

2.	Los productos que no sean combustibles ni derivados
del petroleo adquiridos por los operadores de aviones y utilizados o
consumidos por dichos operadores directa y exclusivamente en el uso
de esos aviones como medios de transporte comunes de pasajeros o
bienes para alquiler o compensacion conforme a un certificado de
conveniencia y necesidad publica emitido de acuerdo con las leyes de

S-903S

SJ 024-068

este Estado, los Estados Unidos o cualquier gobierno extranjero. Esta
exencion se agrega a las dispuestas en las Secciones 6366 y 6366.1
del Codigo de Ingresos e Impuestos del Estado de California.

3.	Si el comprador esta obligado a comprar los bienes por
un precio fijo conforme a un contrato realizado antes de la fecha de
entrada en vigor de esta ordenanza.

4.	Si la posesion o el ejercicio de algun derecho o poder
sobre los bienes personales tangibles surge bajo un arrendamiento
que continua con la compra de dicho bien por un periodo de tiempo
durante el cual el arrendatario esta obligado a arrendar los bienes por
un monto fijado por arrendamiento antes de la fecha de entrada en
vigor de esta ordenanza.

5.	A los fines de las subsecciones (3) y (4) de esta
seccion, el almacenamiento, uso u otro consumo o posesion o
ejercicio de algun derecho o facultad sobre los bienes personales
tangibles se consideraran no obligados de conformidad con un
contrato o arrendamiento por un periodo de tiempo durante el cual
cualquiera de las partes tiene el derecho incondicional de rescindir el
contrato o arrendamiento despues de enviar la debida notificacion,
independientemente de que ese derecho sea ejercido o no.

6.	Excepto lo dispuesto en el inciso (7), un comerciante
minorista que realiza actividades comerciales en la Ciudad no estara
obligado a cobrarle el impuesto al uso de bienes al comprador de los
bienes personales tangibles, a menos que el comerciante minorista
transporte o envie los bienes a la Ciudad o participe dentro de la
Ciudad en la venta de los bienes, incluyendo, sin limitaciones, la
solicitud o el recibo de la orden de compra, ya sea directa o
indirectamente, en un domicilio comercial del comerciante minorista en
la Ciudad o a traves de un representante, agente, visitador a domicilio,
negociador, subsidiaria o persona en la Ciudad bajo la autoridad del
comerciante minorista.

7.	“Un comerciante minorista que realiza actividades
comerciales en la Ciudad" tambien incluira a todo comerciante
minorista de cualquiera de las siguientes categorias: los vehlculos
sujetos a registro conforme al Capitulo 1 (a partir de la Seccion 4000)
de la Division 3 del Codigo de Vehlculos, los aviones autorizados en
cumplimiento de la Seccion 21411 del Codigo de Servicios Publicos,
o buques no documentados registrados bajo el Capitulo 2 de la
Division 3.5 (a partir de la Seccion 9840) del Codigo de Vehlculos.
Ese comerciante minorista debera cobrarle el impuesto al uso de
bienes a todo comprador que registre o licencie el vehlculo, buque o
avion en un domicilio en la Ciudad.

D.	Toda persona sujeta al impuesto al uso de bienes bajo esta
ordenanza puede descontar de ese impuesto todos los impuestos a las
transacciones o reintegros por el impuesto a las transacciones pagado a
un distrito que lo aplique, o a un comerciante minorista sujeto a un
impuesto a las transacciones, de conformidad con la Parte 1.6 de la
Division 2 del Codigo de Ingresos e Impuestos con respecto a la venta a
la persona de los bienes cuyo almacenamiento, uso u otro consumo este
sujeto al impuesto al uso de bienes.

3.40.130.	Enmiendas.

A. Toda enmienda realizada con posterioridad a la fecha de
entrada en vigencia de esta Ordenanza a la Parte 1 de la Division 2 del
Codigo de Ingresos e Impuestos relacionada con los impuestos a las
ventas y los impuestos al uso de bienes y que no sea inconsistente con la
Parte 1.6 y la Parte 1.7 de la Division 2 del Codigo de Ingresos e
Impuestos, y todas las enmiendas realizadas a la Parte 1.6 y la Parte 1.7

de la Division 2 del Codigo de Ingresos e Impuestos, automaticamente
formaran parte de esta Ordenanza, siempre que, no obstante, ninguna
enmienda opere de manera de afectar la tasa del impuesto que esta
ordenanza aplica.

B. De conformidad con la Seccion 9217 o cualquier estatuto
subsiguiente del Codigo Electoral de California, el Concejo Municipal
puede enmendar o revocar esta ordenanza o alguno de sus anexos, pero
no puede aumentar o extender la tasa del impuesto aplicada aqui, sin el
voto del pueblo.

3.40.140	Prohibition de Impedir el Cobro.

No podra emitirse ningun requerimiento o mandamiento judicial ni ningun
otro proceso legal o equitativo en ningun juicio, accion o procedimiento
que se tramite en algun tribunal contra el Estado o la Ciudad, o contra
cualquier funcionario del Estado o de la Ciudad, para evitar o prohibir el
cobro bajo esta ordenanza, o la Parte 1.6 de la Division 2 del Codigo de
Ingresos e Impuestos, de cualquier impuesto o monto del impuesto que
deba recaudarse.

3.40.150.	Reembolsos v Creditos; Juicios v Procedimientos Leqales.

A.	Los reembolsos de y los creditos por algun impuesto
pagado de conformidad con este Capitulo podran hacerse solo segun lo
dispuesto en la Parte 1 (a partir de la Seccion 6001) de la Division 2 del
Codigo de Ingresos e Impuestos.

B.	Los juicios y procedimientos para la recuperation de alguna
suma cuya determination o cobro se presuma que ha sido erroneo o
ilegal segun este Capitulo pueden ser tramitados en cualquier tribunal
solo de la manera en que se establece en la Parte 1 (a partir de la
Seccion 6001) de la Division 2 del Codigo de Ingresos e Impuestos. No
podra dictarse una sentencia a favor del demandante en ninguna accion
iniciada contra la Junta Directiva Estatal de Impuestos sobre Ventas para
recuperar alguna suma pagada cuando la accion sea iniciada por o en
nombre de un designado de la persona que paga el monto o por cualquier
persona que no sea la persona que pago el monto.

3.40.160.	Fondo Especial; Uso Restrinqido de los Ingresos Provenientes
del Impuesto v Plan de Desembolsos.

Todos los ingresos provenientes del impuesto especial gravado y aplicado
por esta ordenanza seran explicados y se depositaran en un fondo o
cuenta especial designada para utilizar por la Ciudad de Lodi solo para la
seguridad publica segun lo establecido en el Plan de Desembolsos para la
Seguridad Publica para la administration y el desembolso de los ingresos
provenientes del impuesto, adjunto a esta ordenanza como Anexo 1, que
forma parte de la presente como si estuviera totalmente enunciado en la
misma. El Plan de Desembolsos para la Seguridad Publica puede ser
enmendado ocasionalmente por el voto de la mayorla del Concejo
Municipal, siempre que el fondo se siga utilizando para la seguridad
publica. No podran gastarse los ingresos recaudados de conformidad con
el impuesto aplicado por esta ordenanza en gastos operativos del Fondo
General con vigor al momento en que esta ordenanza entre en vigencia, o
en proyectos que no sean parte del Plan de Desembolsos para la
Seguridad Publica, en ausencia de una disminucion correspondiente de
los ingresos del Fondo General o un aumento en los gastos no
discrecionales del Fondo General (“Contingencias Financieras”). No
obstante, los ingresos pueden ser utilizados en la dotation de personal
ademas de aquellas que el Fondo General pueda financiar en caso de
Contingencias Financieras. Los ingresos recaudados por esta ordenanza
complementaran, en lugar de reemplazar, los desembolsos existentes de
la Ciudad para la seguridad publica (policla y bomberos) tal como se
refleja en el presupuesto del AF 2016/2017, en ausencia de una disminucion

S-904S

SJ 024-069

3.40.170	Establecimiento del Comite Supervisor del Impuesto

Especial a las Ventas para la Sequridad Publica.

A.	Comite Establecido. Por la presente se establece en la
Ciudad de Lodi un Comite Supervisor de Ciudadanos para controlar los
desembolsos de los ingresos recaudados de conformidad con esta
ordenanza solamente y para informar al Pueblo y al Concejo Municipal.

B.	Selection de Miembros. Los miembros del Comite Supervisor
de Ciudadanos seran designados por el Concejo Municipal. El Comite estara
compuesto por cinco miembros. Los miembros del Comite Supervisor de
Ciudadanos no podran ser empleados, funcionarios, contratistas o
proveedores de la Ciudad de Lodi. Sin embargo, los empleados,
funcionarios, contratistas o proveedores anteriores calificaran para prestar
servicios en el Comite, siempre que no existan conflictos de intereses segun
lo determine el Abogado de la Ciudad. De los miembros del Comite
designados por primera vez, tres seran designados por mandatos de dos
anos y los otros dos por mandatos de tres anos. Sus sucesores seran
designados por mandatos de tres anos. Ningun miembro podra prestar
servicios por mas de dos mandatos consecutivos de tres anos. El Concejo
Municipal debera solicitar a los miembros del Comite Supervisor de
Ciudadanos, a traves de un proceso de solicitud abierto que es promovido a
traves del proceso de reclutamiento adoptado por la Ciudad. Todo residente
de Lodi califica para solicitar la membresia del Comite, sujeto a las
restricciones indicadas arriba. Todas las solicitudes seran revisadas por el
Concejo Municipal, que tendra la autoridad de tomar todas las decisiones
finales sobre la composition del Comite, sujetas a las normas contenidas en
esta Ordenanza.

C.	Propositos v Jurisdiction. El Comite Supervisor de
Ciudadanos realizara una revision anual de los desembolsos de los ingresos
recaudados de conformidad con esta Ordenanza para determinar si esos
fondos son gastados para los propositos especificados en el Plan de
Desembolsos para la Seguridad Publica entonces vigente. Los miembros
del Comite pueden revisar la auditoria financiera anual realizada por un
auditor independiente durante el proceso de revision. El Comite Supervisor
de Ciudadanos emitira un informe anual sobre sus conclusiones para el
Concejo Municipal y el pueblo. El informe anual del Comite Supervisor de
Ciudadanos esta sujeto a la revision y aprobacion del Concejo Municipal. El
Comite limitara su revision especificamente a los ingresos generados de
conformidad con esta ordenanza y al desembolso de dichos ingresos. El
Comite cumplira un rol solamente de asesoramiento para el Concejo
Municipal. Los miembros del Comite no desempenaran un papel formal o
informal en la contratacion, retention o el entrenamiento del personal de la
seguridad publica financiado por esta ordenanza. El Comite no tiene a su
cargo la toma de decisiones sobre las prioridades de gastos; cronogramas;
niveles de dotacion de personal; decisiones sobre las fuentes de
financiamiento; planes de financiamiento, incluyendo cambios o revisiones
al Plan de Desembolsos para la Seguridad Publica; o presunciones sobre la
tasa impositiva. El Comite no tendra mas jurisdiccion que la delegada por el
pueblo de conformidad con esta ordenanza. El Administrador de la Ciudad
de Lodi, o quien este designe, debera brindar la asistencia administrativa o
tecnica razonable requerida por el Comite a fin de cumplir con sus
responsabilidades o dar a conocer sus conclusiones.

D.	Reuniones. El Comite Supervisor de Ciudadanos ser reunira
anualmente con fechas de reunion especfficas que seran determinadas por
los miembros del Comite. Las reuniones del Comite Supervisor de
Ciudadanos estan sujetas a la Ley Brown. Las reuniones deberan ser
notificadas y abiertas al publico. Las actas y los informes del Comite son
una cuestion de registro publico y deben publicarse en un sitio web que
disponga la Ciudad. El Comite puede programar reuniones adicionales

cuando lo considere necesario. Todos los miembros del Comite deberan
asistir a una sesion de capacitacion y orientation antes de la primera
reunion ordinaria del Comite. Se espera que los miembros del Comite
asistan a todas las reuniones ordinarias. La ausencia a dos reuniones
consecutivas podria resultar en su remocion del Comite a criterio del
Concejo Municipal.

E.	Qperaciones del Comite. El Comite Supervisor de
Ciudadanos seleccionara a los miembros que se desempenaran como
Presidente y Vicepresidente del Comite. Una persona del personal de la
Ciudad sera designada por el Administrador de la Ciudad, o por el
designado del Administrador de la Ciudad, para desempenarse como
Secretario. El Secretario sera responsable de preparar, publicar y distribuir
el orden del dia, as! como de realizar las actas de cada reunion. Las actas
aprobadas deberan estar a disposicion del publico. Las decisiones, las
opiniones, las conclusiones y los procedimientos del Comite requeriran un
voto de la mayorla simple de aquellos miembros del Comite presentes. El
requisito de quorum para cualquier reunion sera de un mlnirno de tres (3)
miembros.

F.	Vacantes. Los miembros del Comite pueden ser removidos
del Comite solamente por el Concejo Municipal en caso de ausencias
reiteradas a las reuniones, conducta indebida, incumplimiento de las
calificaciones establecidas en esta Seccion o por incapacidad o falta de
disposicion para cumplir con las obligaciones de un miembro del Comite. En
caso de remocion, renuncia o muerte, el Concejo Municipal debera designar
a una persona para ocupar el escano vacante.

G.	Miscelanea. Sujeto a las restricciones especificamente
consideradas en esta Seccion, el Comite puede preparar y adoptar sus
propios procedimientos y reglamentos internos con el voto de la mayorla.
Todos los procedimientos y reglamentos internos del Comite Supervisor de
Ciudadanos quedan sujetos a la revision y aprobacion del Concejo Municipal.

3.40.180	Informe v Auditoria Anual.

A.	Los ingresos provenientes del impuesto aplicado por este
Capltulo estaran sujetos a la auditoria anual realizada por el
auditor independiente de la Ciudad de los libros, registros,
cuentas y procedimientos fiscales de la Ciudad y cuyo informe
esta en el Informe Financiero Anual Integral de la Ciudad.

B.	Ademas de la auditoria anual, la Ciudad preparara un Informe de
Revision Anual, estableciendo el importe de los ingresos recibidos
del impuesto aplicado por este Capltulo, el monto de los
desembolsos y la description de los gastos. El proposito del
informe es asegurar la rendition de cuentas y el correcto
desembolso de los ingresos provenientes del impuesto aplicado
por este Capltulo. El Informe de Revision Anual sera presentado
en la Oficina del Secretario Municipal a mas tardar el 31 de enero
siguiente al ano fiscal en que se cobra el impuesto.

Seccion 2. Sin Obligation de Cuidar. Esta ordenanza no pretende ser, y
no se considerara ni dara lugar de manera alguna, a la imposition sobre la
Ciudad, o cualquier otro funcionario o empleado de la misma, de una
obligation de cuidar a las personas o propiedades dentro de la Ciudad o fuera
de ella como para dar una base de responsabilidad civil por danos, excepto
que se establezca lo contrario segun lo impuesto por la ley.

Seccion 3. Divisibilidad. Si alguna disposicion de esta ordenanza o su
aplicacion a alguna persona o circunstancia es considerada invalida por un
tribunal de jurisdiccion competente, el resto de esta ordenanza y la aplicacion
de dicha disposicion a otras personas o circunstancias no resultaran afectadas
por dicha invalidez. El Concejo Municipal de la Ciudad de Lodi por la presente

S-905S

SJ 024-070

declara que habria adoptado cada una de las disposiciones de esta ordenanza
independientemente de la invalidez de toda otra disposition.

Seccion 4. Todas las ordenanzas y partes de ordenanzas en conflicto
con la presente son revocadas en tanto y en cuanto dicho conflicto pueda
existir.

Seccion 5. Cumplimiento de la Lev sobre la Calidad Ambiental de
California. La aprobacion de esta ordenanza esta exenta de la Ley de Calidad
Ambiental de California (Secciones 21000, et seq., del Codigo de Recursos
Publicos, “CEQA” y Secciones 15000 et seq., del Cod. de Regul. de Cal.
14, “Normas de CEQA”). Esta ordenanza aplica un impuesto especial a
las ventas que puede ser utilizado para cualquier proposito legitimo del
gobierno segun se indica en esta ordenanza. No es un compromiso con
un proyecto especlfico que pueda generar un impacto fisico
potencialmente significativo en el medio ambiente.

Seccion 6. Codification. Sujeto a la aprobacion de los votantes, en
consulta con el titular del cargo de Abogado de la Ciudad, por la presente
se autoriza al titular del cargo de Secretario Municipal, y se le indica que
codifique esta ordenanza en el Codigo Municipal de Lodi.

Seccion 7. Fecha de Viqencia. Si esta ordenanza es aprobada por los
dos tercios de los votantes que votan en la cuestion en las elecciones del
8 de noviembre de 2016, de conformidad con la Seccion 9217 del Codigo
Electoral, esta ordenanza entrara en vigencia diez (10) dias despues que el
Concejo Municipal declare los resultados de las elecciones.

Seccion 8. Certification v Publication. El titular del cargo de Secretario
Municipal certificara la aprobacion final de esta ordenanza, la publicara tal
como lo requiere la ley y enviara una copia certificada de la ordenanza
adoptada a la Junta Directiva Estatal de Impuestos sobre Ventas.

Aprobada el 20 de julio de 2016

IV MARK CHANDLER
Alcalde

AVAL:

IV JENNIFER M.FERRAIOLO
Secretaria Municipal

Estado de California
Condado de San Joaquin, ss.

Yo, Jennifer M. Ferraiolo, Secretaria Municipal de la Ciudad de Lodi, por
la presente certifico que la Ordenanza N° 1926 fue introducida en una
reunion ordinaria del Concejo Municipal de la Ciudad de Lodi Nevada a
cabo el 6 de julio de 2016, y fue a partir de entonces aprobada, adoptada
y su impresion ordenada en una reunion ordinaria de dicho Concejo
realizada el 20 de julio de 2016, con la siguiente votacion:

SI:	MIEMBROS	DEL	CONCEJO	-	Johnson,

Kuehne, Mounce, y el Alcalde Chandler
NO:	MIEMBROS	DEL	CONCEJO	- Ninguno

AUSENTES:	MIEMBROS	DEL	CONCEJO	- Nakanishi

ABSTENCIONES:	MIEMBROS	DEL	CONCEJO	- Ninguno

Certifico ademas que la Ordenanza N° 1926 fue aprobada y firmada por el
Alcalde en la fecha de su aprobacion y la misma ha sido publicada de
conformidad con la ley.

IV JENNIFER M.FERRAIOLO
Secretaria Municipal

Aprobado de Conformidad:

IV JANICE D. MAGDICH
Abogada de la Ciudad

Anexo 1

Plan de Desembolsos para la Seguridad Publica

Se estima que el impuesto a las ventas para la Seguridad Publica generara
aproximadamente $2,800,000 anuales por un periodo de 15 anos. Los
ingresos se repartiran el 64% ($1,792,000) para Policia y el 36% ($1,008,000)
para Bomberos. Abajo se indican los desembolsos anuales estimados para
cada departamento.

Policia (el 64% de los ingresos adicionales del impuesto a las ventas)

•	Financiar hasta ocho (8) agentes de policia jurados

o Costo estimado AF 2016/17 - $1,376,072 (8 puestos)

•	Financiar hasta dos (2) guardabosques de medio tiempo (puestos
jurados)

o Costo estimado AF 2016/17 - $59,830 (2 puestos)

•	Financiar un (1) Coordinador de Alcance Social para Jovenes de
medio tiempo

o Costo estimado AF 2016/17 - $31,509

•	Financiar equipamiento para hasta 10 agentes jurados

o Costo estimado AF 2016/17 - $107,750

•	El saldo de los fondos se utilizara para entrenamiento del personal
policial

Bomberos (el 36% de los ingresos adicionales del impuesto a las ventas)

•	Aumentar el financiamiento para la dotation de personal de bomberos
para poner en funcionamiento el Camion de Bomberos 1

o Costo estimado AF 2016/17 - $798,929

•	El saldo de los fondos se utilizara para entrenamiento del personal de
bomberos

o AF 2016/17 - $209,071 estimado

anAlisis imparcial de la medida s

MEDIDA DE SEGURIDAD PUBLICA

anAlisis imparcial de la abogada de la ciudad

La Medida S busca la aprobacion de los votantes de un impuesto especial al
uso de bienes y las transacciones temporario (comunmente denominado un
“impuesto a las ventas”) de un cuarto de centavo (0.25%). Si es aprobado, el
impuesto a las ventas de un cuarto de centavo se pagarla ademas del actual
impuesto a las ventas y serla cobrado por la Junta Directiva Estatal de
Impuestos sobre Ventas de California en el mismo momento y de la misma
manera que el impuesto a las ventas existente.

La seccion 7285.91 del Codigo de Ingresos e Impuestos de California autoriza

S-906S

SJ 024-071

al Concejo Municipal a aplicar un impuesto con fines especiales a una tasa del
0.125 por ciento o cualquier multiplo del mismo, siempre que el impuesto sea
aprobado con un voto de los 2/3 de todos los miembros del Concejo Municipal
y que el impuesto sea aprobado por los 2/3 de los votantes en una eleccion
general. Los ingresos provenientes del impuesto especial estan legalmente
restringidos a los propositos identificados en la medida de la boleta electoral y
no pueden ser reasignados a otros propositos para otras operaciones,
programas o servicio de la Ciudad sin la aprobacion de los votantes.

Si es aprobada, la Medida S aumentara el impuesto a las ventas local en la
Ciudad de Lodi de la actual tasa del 8% al 8.25% y estara vigente desde el 1°
de abril de 2017 hasta el 31 de marzo de 2032. Cualquier extension del
impuesto mas alia del 31 de marzo de 2032, requeriria la aprobacion adicional
de los 2/3 de los votantes en una eleccion general.

La Medida S requiere que los ingresos adicionales provenientes del impuesto
a las ventas se utilicen para aumentar la cantidad de agentes de policia en la
nomina, financiar su equipamiento de seguridad, contratar a un trabajador de
alcance social para jovenes de medio tiempo para que actue en la intervencion y
prevencion de pandillas, poner a funcionar nuevamente el Camion de Bomberos
1 del centra urbano, y brindar entrenamiento avanzado al personal de la
seguridad publica, segun lo especificado en el plan de desembolsos incorporado
en la Ordenanza. No se podra gastar ninguna parte de los ingresos recaudados
del impuesto bajo la Medida S en los proyectos o gastos operativos del Fondo
General de la Ciudad, o en deficits de las pensiones publicas (PERS). En caso
de recesion o gastos descontrolados, los ingresos provenientes del impuesto de
la Medida S podrian ser utilizados para complementar los servicios de policlas y
bomberos ademas de los que el Fondo General podria financiar en ese
momento. Los ingresos provenientes del impuesto de la Medida S estan
limitados a complementar, en lugar de reemplazar, los desembolsos existentes
de la Ciudad para seguridad publica tal como se establece en el presupuesto
para el ano fiscal 2016/2017 de la Ciudad.

La Ciudad estima que la Medida S generara $2,800,000 en ingresos anuales.
La medida requiere que los ingresos adicionales provenientes del impuesto
sean depositados en un fondo especial y que los auditores independientes de
la Ciudad auditen anualmente el cobra, la administration y el desembolso de
los ingresos provenientes del impuesto durante su auditoria anual de las
finanzas de la Ciudad.

La Medida S establece tambien un comite supervisor de ciudadanos para
supervisar los desembolsos de los ingresos adicionales provenientes del
impuesto y exige que el comite se reuna anualmente para revisar los
desembolsos del ano anterior de los ingresos provenientes del impuesto
aumentado y que presente un informe al Concejo Municipal que indique como
se gastaron los fondos.

La Medida S se coloca en la boleta electoral por action del Concejo Municipal
de la Ciudad de Lodi (Ordenanza N° 2016-127).

/f/ Janice D. Magdich
Abogada de la Ciudad
Ciudad de Lodi

ARGUMENTO A FAVOR DE LA MEDIDA S

Lodi ha sido por mucho tiempo habitable y adorable porque somos una
comunidad muy unida y segura. Pero nuestra seguridad esta en creciente
riesgo debido a los cambios en la ley del estado.

Las llamadas a la policia estan llegando al maximo debido al experimento

inedito de la justicia penal del Estado de California que regresa a los
delincuentes habituales a nuestras calles poco despues de sus repetidos
arrestos. Las llamadas a la policia de Lodi aumentaron en 2,000 desde
2015 a 2016, los casos delictivos aumentaron en mas de 400 y los
arrestos aumentaron en 145. Los ciudadanos que llaman al 911 esperan
mas tiempo para que los oficiales lleguen porque tienen hasta 15
llamadas con prioridad. Si Lodi va a mantener su habitabilidad debemos
aumentar la dotacion de nuestro personal policial para estar a la altura de
estos desafios.

Un voto si tambien asegurara que El Departamento de Bomberos de Lodi
brinde a los residentes los niveles de servicio mas altos. Mas de la mitad
de las veces, el camion de bomberos de nuestra estacion del centra
urbano esta fuera de servicio. La Medida S brindarla los fondos
necesarios para mantener el camion de bomberos en servicio 24 horas al
dla. Ademas, restablecerla un presupuesto para entrenamiento agotado
para que los bomberos puedan brindar el mejor servicio de bomberos y
medicos a aquellos que lo necesiten, as! como proteger mejor a nuestra
comunidad de los materiales peligrosos.

La Medida S contratara ocho agentes de calle, dos guardaparques de
medio tiempo, un interventor de pandillas de medio tiempo y dotara
completamente de personal al Camion de Bomberos Uno al costo de un
aumento de % por ciento en el impuesto a las ventas, costandole a los
contribuyentes de Lodi solo 2 centavos sobre una compra imponible de
$8. Es importante senalar que la Medida S solo puede ser gastada en
dotacion de personal adicional (ni un centavo puede ir para resolver la
crisis de las pensiones o los proyectos favoritos) y la Medida S viene con
supervision ciudadana.

jVOTE SI por la Seguridad Publica el 8 de noviembre de 2016, VOTE SI
en la Medida S!

Presentado por:

IV John Della Monica
IV Mark Chandler, Alcalde
/f/ Michael K. Woznick
/f/ Nathan Woods
/f/ Tracy Williams

ARGUMENTO EN CONTRA DE LA MEDIDA S

Falta de Rendition de Cuentas: una razon para votar NO

La medida del impuesto a las ventas aumenta el impuesto a las ventas de
Lodi del 8.0% al 8.25%. Es mas economico comprar bienes en Lodi que en
Stockton donde el impuesto a las ventas es del 9%. Segun la Fundacion de
Impuestos, California tiene el impuesto a las ventas mas alto de la nation.
El Condado de LA y algunos condados del Area de la Bahia avanzan de a
poco al 10% y 11%.

Lodi tiene una poblacion de 63,000 residentes y una tasa de desempleo de
alrededor del 10%. La ciudad tiene 397 empleados. La ciudad aumento los
salarios en 2015, 2016 y 2017. ^Recibio usted un aumento de salario el ano
pasado? ^Por que la ciudad aumento los salarios cuando los costos de
pensiones estan escalando? La deuda de pensiones no financiadas de
Lodi es de mas de $92 millones.

S-907S

SJ 024-072

Los costos de las pensiones en aumento dejan menos dinero para poner
policlas en las calles. Los ingresos de la Ciudad son desviados para
financiar los aumentos anuales de las pensiones.

La Seguridad Publica (Bomberos y Policia) comprende mas del 60% del
presupuesto de la ciudad. La contribution estimada a PERS (Sistema de
Jubilation para Empleados Publicos) para Lodi en 2016/17 solo es de $9.2
millones. Luego aumenta mas de un millon de dolares cada ano. En
2017/18, aumenta a $10.2 millones y en 2018/19 a $11.2 millones. Para
2019/20, el costo aumenta de $1.1 millones a $12.3 millones. Luego en
2012/22 se estima que tendra un enorme aumento de $1.5 millones a $13.4
millones.

^Debera la ciudad despedir policlas y bomberos para financiar las
pensiones de los empleados jubilados?

Un impuesto a las ventas alto es un impuesto regresivo. Perjudica a la clase
media y a las personas con ingresos fijos y mas bajos. Aumenta el costo de
los bienes y servicios.

Falta de Rendicion de Cuentas: una razon para votar NO en la Medida S.

Presentado por:

/f/ Gregory P. Goehring
/f/ Alexander S. Aliferis
/f/ Jim Shoemaker

REFUTACION AL
ARGUMENTO A FAVOR DE LA MEDIDA S

Falta de Rendicion de Cuentas: Otra razon para votar NO.

La mayoria del presupuesto de la ciudad es salarios/beneficios. ^Que es lo
que usted esta realmente pagando?

^Que es lo que la ciudad no le dice? Es terrible que la ciudad tenga una
deuda por pensiones no financiadas de $92 millones.

^Cual es la garantia de que el aumento de este impuesto para fondos
generales no se utilizara para pagar las pensiones en aumento, las deudas
y los costos de salarios futures? jSimplemente diga No!

El Jefe de Bomberos de Lodi en 2015 gano $247,175.98 en beneficios y
pagas totales. ^Usted gana esta cantidad? Segun el Centro de Politicas de
California, el bombero promedio de California gana mas de $200,000 al ano
en beneficios	y pagas	totales. Lo	invitamos a visitar

transparentcalifornia.com y ver los paquetes de compensaciones en Lodi.

Segun el Centro de Politicas de California, los empleados de la seguridad
publica (policia y bomberos) en California vieron aumentar su
compensacion total 20%-30% mas que el indice de inflation durante el
periodo 1991-2011.

Segun transparentcalifornia.com, en 2015, mas de 200 empleados
municipales de Lodi, incluyendo policia y bomberos, ganaron mas de
$100,000 por ano en beneficios y pagas totales.

Un impuesto a las ventas alto es un impuesto regresivo. Perjudica a la clase
media y a las personas con ingresos fijos y mas bajos. Aumenta el costo de
los bienes y servicios.

El problema de la Ciudad no es una falta de ingresos provenientes del
impuesto a las ventas sino que se gasta demasiado en paquetes de
compensacion y en beneficios de las pensiones en aumento.

Falta de Rendicion de Cuentas: Otra razon para votar NO en la Medida

S.

Presentado por:

/f/ Gregory P. Goehring
/f/ Alexander S. Aliferis
IV Jim Shoemaker

REFUTACION AL
ARGUMENTO EN CONTRA DE LA MEDIDA S

Los opositores a la Medida S no ofrecen soluciones para el problema que
ellos tacitamente reconocen que existe: El delito en California esta
aumentando y Lodi necesita mas agentes y al Camion de Bomberos Uno si
vamos a mantener el nivel de servicio que hemos llegado a esperar. En
cambio, ellos objetan la paga de los empleados. Pero la verdad es que la
policia y los bomberos de Lodi se llevan a casa el cuatro por ciento menos
hoy que lo que se llevaban en 2008. La Policia y los Bomberos acordaron
una reduccion de la paga del nueve por ciento para mantener los niveles de
servicio durante la Gran Recesion. Restablecer el cinco por ciento de esa
reduccion de la paga no es un aumento.

Los opositores tambien se quejan de la crisis de financiamiento de PERS,
pero la Medida S exige la supervision ciudadana para asegurar que el
dinero sea gastado solamente en aumentar los niveles de servicio, no en
resolver la crisis de financiamiento de las jubilaciones.

Lodi no puede resolver la crisis de PERS. Eso requiere legislation estatal.
Pero podemos mantener nuestra calidad de vida agregando ocho agentes
policiales de calle, dos oficiales en los parques y aumentar nuestro trabajo
de intervention de las pandillas. Podemos poner al camion de bomberos
uno nuevamente en servicio completo. Todo al costo de aproximadamente
$40 por ano por hogar promedio de Lodi.

jVote si en la medida S para preservar la calidad de vida de Lodi!

Presentado por:

/f/ Mark Chandler, Alcalde

/f/ Mike Woznick, Presidente de la Asoc. de Bomberos de Lodi
/f/ John Della Monica
/f/ Tracy Williams

S-908S	SJ	024-073

VOTE

PROTECT YOUR RIGHTS

Save Time at Your Polling Place

•	Mark your choices in this Sample Ballot and take it to your
polling place for reference.

•	Your polling place location is shown on the back cover.

•	If possible, vote in the mid-morning or mid-afternoon hours. This
will help shorten lines during the evening rush.

•	Polls are open from 7 a.m. to 8 p.m.

PVOTE

PROTEGA SUS DERECHOS

Ahorre Tiempo en su Centro de Votacion

•	Marque sus selecciones en la Muestra de Boleta y llevela a su
centro de votacion para referencia.

•	La ubicacion de su centro de votacion se encuentra en la
portada posterior.

•	Si es posible, vote antes de mediodia o a media tarde. Esto
ayudara acortar las lineas durante el pico de la noche.

•	Los centros de votacion estan abiertos de 7 a.m. a las 8 p.m.

SAVTIMEB

SJ 024-074

ATTENTION!

VOTE-BY-MAIL & MAIL BALLOT VOTERS

In order for your ballot to be counted:

1.	You MUST sign the outside of your return envelope.

2.	You MUST return your voted ballot:

>	In person: must be received by 8:00 p.m. on Election Day; or

>	By mail: must be post stamped no later than the date of the
Election and delivered to the Registrar of Voters Office no later
than 3 business days after the day of election.

1.	Usted DEBE firmar la parte designada de su sobre de envio.

2.	Usted DEBE devolver su boleta votada:

>	En persona: debe ser recibida antes de las 8:00 p.m. el dia de la
Eleccion; o

>	Por correo: debe ser posterior sellado a mas tardar de la fecha de
la Eleccion y entreqado a la Oficina del Registro de Votantes a mas
tardar 3 dias habiles posteriores al dia de la eleccion.

iATENCION!

VOTANTES DE VOTO-POR-CORREO Y
SIN CENTROS DE VOTACION

Para que su voto sea contado:

HANDB

SJ 024-076

INSTRUCTIONS FOR VO VOTING
INSTRUCCIONES PARA EL VOTO DE VOTO-POR-CORREO

LAST DAY TO REGISTER FOR THIS ELECTION

If you moved within the county on or before the date shown to the right and did not OCTOBER

reregister at your new address, you may vote and register for future elections EITHER at

the county elections office OR at the polling place where you now live. If you moved	24

AFTER the date shown, you may vote a Vote-by-Mail ballot or at the polling place for your

current or previous address for this election only. Then, you must reregister and vote at OCTUBRE

your new address for future elections.

ULTIMO DIA PARA REGISTRARSE PARA ESTA ELECCION

Si usted se mudo dentro del mismo condado en la fecha indicada a mano izquierda o antes de la misma,
y no se registra para votar en su nueva direccion, usted puede votar y registrarse para elecciones futuras
YA SEA en la oficina electoral del condado 0 en el centra electoral donde usted vive ahora. Si se mudo
DESPUES de la fecha indicada, puede votar en una boleta de Voto-por-Correo, o en el centra electoral
correspondiente a su direccion actual o anterior solamente para esta eleccion. Entonces, para las
elecciones futuras, usted tiene que registrarse y votar en su nueva direccion.

LAST DAY TO RECEIVE YOUR VOTE-BY-MAIL BALLOT REQUEST

To qualify for a Vote-by-Mail Ballot you must:

•	Be a registered voter in the County.

•	Sign your request in your own handwriting.

•	Submit your request to the Registrar’s Office no later than 5 p.m. on the date shown (the
7th day prior to Election Day).

ft Separate Here

NOVEMBER

1

NOVIEMBRE

ULTIMO DIA PARA RECIBIR SU SOLICITUD DE BOLETA DE VOTO-POR-CORREO

Para calificar para una Boleta de Votante Por Correo usted debe:

•	Ser un votante registrado en el condado.

•	Firme su peticion personalmente.

•	Presente su peticion en la oficina del Registrador antes de las 5 de la tarde de la fecha mostrada (el
7° dia anterior al Dia de la Eleccion).

SepareAqui 'X,

39-AV-10643

FROM: (REMITE)

DID YOU SIGN YOUR APPLICATION?
^FIRMO USTED SU SOLICITUD?

FIRST

CLASS

POSTAGE

REQUIRED

PLACE STAMP HERE
PONGA ESTAMPILLAAQUI

TO:	AUSTIN	G.	ERDMAN

REGISTRAR OF VOTERS
SAN JOAQUIN COUNTY
PO BOX 810

STOCKTON CA 95201-0810

ELECTION DAY: NOVEMBER 8,2016

RETURNING YOUR VOTE-BY-MAIL BALLOT

In Person: must be delivered to the Registrar of Voters Office or any polling place within
the county no later than 8:00 p.m. on Election Day.

By Mail: must be postmarked on or before Election Day and received by the Elections
Office no later than 3 business days after the day of the Election.

DIA DE LA ELECCION: NOVIEMBRE 8,2016

DEVOLVIENDO SU BOLETA DE VOTO-POR-CORREO

En persona: debe devolver la boleta a la Oficina del Registrador de Votantes o a cualquier centra de votacion
dentro del condado a mas tardar 8:00 p.m. del Dia de Eleccion.

Por correo: debe tener el matasello el dia o antes del Dia de Eleccion y ser recibida por la Oficina del Registrador de
Votantes a mas tardar tres dias de negocio despues de la Eleccion.

NOTICE TO ALL VOTERS: Any voter may request permanent Vote-by-Mail voter status. This
means that you would automatically receive a Vote-by-Mail ballot by mail for any election in which
you are entitled to vote. You can remain a permanent Vote-by-Mail for as long as you wish.
However, failure to return a voted Vote-by-Mail ballot for four consecutive statewide general
elections will cause your “permanent Vote-by-Mail’ standing to be canceled, and you would have
to vote at your local polling place or reapply for permanent Vote-by-Mail. EC 3206
If you are interested, phone (209) 468-2890 for more information, or mark the PERM VOTE-
BY-MAIL option box on the Vote-by-Mail ballot application.

AVISO A TODOS LOS VOTANTES: Cualquier elector puede solicitar la estatus permanente del elector de Voto-por-Correo.
Esto significa que recibira automaticamente, por correo, una boleta de elector de Voto-por-Correo, para todas las elecciones
en las cuales tiene derecho a votar. Puede preservar por el periodo de tiempo que desee su condicion permanente de elector
de Voto-por-Correo. Sin embargo, si deja de votar y de devolver la boleta de elector de Voto-por-Correo en cuatro elecciones
consecutivas generates estatales se cancelara su clasificacion de “Voto-por-Correo permanente” y tendra que votar en el
centra electoral correspondiente o volver a solicitar la condicion permanente de elector de Voto-por-Correo. 3206 del CE
Si desea mas information sobre este asunto, Name al (209) 468-2890, o ponga una marca en el encasillado de Voto-
por-Correo permanente en la solicitud para boleta de Voto-por-Correo.

NOTICE TO VOTERS WITH DISABILITIES: If a polling place is not indicated as
accessible to voters with disabilities, such voter is entitled to vote in the following way:

A precinct board member shall take a regular ballot to a voter with disabilities at a place as
near as possible to the polling place and which is accessible to such person, qualify that
person to vote and return the voted ballot to the polling place.

~	AVISO A LOS VOTANTES FISICAMENTE IMPEDIDOS: Si el lugar de votacion no esta indicado como accesible

T	para el votante fisicamente impedido, tal votante tiene derecho a votar en la forma siguiente:

Un miembro del colegio electoral entregara una boleta regular a la persona fisicamente impedida en un lugar tan
I	cercano	como	sea posible al lugar de votacion y que sea accesible a dicha persona, comprobara la calificacion de

tal persona para votar y devolvera la boleta votada al lugar de votacion.

39AV10643

95201081010

AUSTIN G. ERDMAN
REGISTRAR OF VOTERS
SAN JOAQUIN COUNTY
44 N. San Joaquin Street, Suite 350
P.O. Box 810

Stockton, California 95201
Tel: (209) 468-2890

ELECTRONIC SERVICE REQUESTED



Separate Here

Take this Voter Information Pamphlet to your Polling Place for reference.
Lleve este Folleto de Informacion a su Centro Electoral para referenda.

NOTICE/AVISO------------------------------------------------

IF THE PERSON NAMED ON THIS SAMPLE BALLOT IS NOT AT THIS ADDRESS,

PLEASE RETURN THIS SAMPLE BALLOTTOYOUR MAIL CARRIER.

SI LA PERSONA NOMBRADA EN ESTA MUESTRA DE BOLETA NO ESTA EN ESTA
DIRECCION, FAVOR DE DEVOLVER ESTA MUESTRA DE BOLETA A SU CARTERO.

POSTMASTER DELIVER TO:

Separe Aqui



POLLING PLACE LOCATION:
LUGAR DE VOTACION:

&

I HEREBY REQUEST A VOTE-BY-MAIL BALLOT FOR THE PRESIDENTIAL GENERAL ELECTION, NOVEMBER 8, 2016
POR LA PRESENTE SOLICITO UNA BOLETA DE VOTO-POR-CORREO PARA LA ELECCION GENERAL PRESIDENCIAL, 8 DE NOVIEMBRE DE 2016

□ “Permanent VOTE-BY-MAIL”. Check here if you wish to become a Permanent Vote-by-Mail Voter.	I	I Check here if you prefer your ballot in Spanish.

“VOTO-POR-CORREO Permanente”. Marque aquf si desea ser Elector de Voto-por-Correo Permanente. I_I Marque aquf si prefiere su boleta en espanol.

RESIDENCE ADDRESS

DOMICILIO	__________________________________________________________________________________________________

Street Address Only/Direccion de Residencia Solamente	City/Ciudad	State/Estado	Zip/Codigo Postal

MAILING ADDRESS

direcciPn postal ______________________________________________________________________________________________________

If Different From Residence/Si es diferente del Domicilio	City/Ciudad	State/Estado	Zip/Codigo Postal

I certify under penalty of perjury that this information is true and correct / Declaro bajo pena de perjurio que esta informacion es verdadera y correcta

Date

Fecha

Application MUST be received by 11/1/2016	  La	solicitud	DEBE	ser	recibida	no	mas	tardar	de	11/1/2016

X Separate Here	FOLD HERE AND DETACH/DOBLE AQUI Y SEPARE Separe Aqui

Must sign as registered
Debe firmar como se registro

Application for Vote-By-Mail Ballot

If you find that for any reason you will be unable to vote in person on
Election Day, promptly complete and sign the application for a Vote-
by-Mail Ballot printed above and return it to the Office of the Registrar
no less than 7 days before the day of the election. Application must
be received by November 1, 2016.

You need to submit this application ONLY if:

^ You are not a permanent Vote-by-Mail voter and wish to become one, or

^ You are not a permanent Vote-by-Mail voter and wish to vote by mail this
election only.

Solicitud para Boleta de Voto-Por-Correo

Si usted, por alguna razon no puede votar personalmente el Dia de la
Eleccion, llene y firme enseguida la solicitud de Voto-por-Correo que
esta imprimida arriba y devuelvala a la Oficina del Registrador no menos
de 7 dias antes de la eleccion. La Solicitud debe ser recibida no mas
tardar del 1 de noviembre de 2016.

Presente esta solicitud SOLO si:

^ No es votante de Voto-por-Correo permanente y desea ser, o

No es votante de Voto-por-Correo permanente y desea votar por correo
esta eleccion solamente.