Cl I CHfNTHE OFFICE OF THE
rlUCU CHIEF ELECTIONS OFFICER
OF SAN MATEO COUNTY, CALIF.

JUL 28 2016

RESOLUTION NO. 4759

DEPUTY

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF EAST PALO

ALTO

CALLING AND ORDERING THE SUBMISSION TO THE QUALIFIED
ELECTORS OF THE CITY OF EAST PALO ALTO A CERTAIN MEASURE
RELATING TO A PROPOSED ORDINANCE ADDING CHAPTER 3.57 TO THE
EAST PALO ALTO MUNICIPAL CODE ENACTING A ONE-HALF CENT
(1/2%) GENERAL PURPOSE TRANSACTIONS (SALES) AND USE TAX AT
THE GENERAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION TO BE HELD ON
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 8,2016

WHEREAS, like many cities of similar size in the Bay Area, East Palo Alto is
equipped with its own City run police department, owns its water system, maintains its
parks, and provides other vital services to its residents; and

WHEREAS, without additional revenue, the City will be forced to consider
cutting back on locally controlled City services and expand contracting with outside
entities to provide these services or even reduce the provision of such services; and

WHEREAS, the City wishes to continue to address service priorities the public
has identified such as public safety services including maintaining rapid police response
times, maintaining neighborhood policing programs, repairing streets, fixing potholes;
and

WHEREAS, many streets in East Palo Alto have cracked or buckled sidewalks, or
no sidewalks at all and many roads have potholes and other maintenance conditions; and

WHEREAS, additional funding will help maintain East Palo Alto’s financial
viability as a city providing a good level of services to its citizens, and protect the small
town quality of life; and

WHEREAS, additional funding is needed to update our storm drain system and
prevent flooding our local streets and to stop pollution from flowing to the Bay; and

WHEREAS, additional funding can improve drinking water quality and make
vital repairs that will protect us in case of earthquake or other disaster; and

WHEREAS, additional funding is needed to ensure that the City can maintain
youth and senior programs, and other vital City services such as ensuring local parks are
properly maintained for children to play and families to visit; and

WHEREAS, East Palo Alto needs local control over local funds, for local needs;

and

WHEREAS, this includes tough accountability provisions such as annual
independent audits and publishing of expenditure reports; and

WHEREAS, on July 5,2016 the City Council held a public hearing introducing
an Ordinance adding Chapter 3.57 to the East Palo Alto Municipal Code imposing a one-
half cent (1/2%) transactions and use tax for general purposes subject to the approval of
the voters; and

WHEREAS, the tax provided for by the proposed Ordinance shall be enacted
solely to raise revenue for general purposes, and shall be placed into the City’s General
Fund;and

WHEREAS, the City Council also desires, on its own motion, to submit to the
voters at the General Municipal Election a question relating to the imposition of a one-
half cent (1/2%) transactions and use tax for general purposes; and

WHEREAS, a Consolidated General Municipal Election on Tuesday, November
8, 2016 has been called by Resolution Nos. 4750 and.4751, adopted on July 5,2016; and

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF
THE CITY OF EAST PALO ALTO THAT:

SECTION 1. The City Council pursuant to its right and authority, does order to be
submitted to the voters at the Consolidated General Municipal Election the following
question:

EAST PALO ALTO NEIGHBORHOOD SAFETY AND VITAL CITY SERVICES MEASURE.	
To make neighborhoods safer by maintaining rapid police response ^ times/number of police officers patrolling neighborhood streets; repairing streets/potholes; updating drinking water/storm drain * infrastructure; maintaining youth/senior programs and other vital City ^ services, shall East Palo Alto enact a one-half cent (1/2%) sales tax that 'i. ean only be ended by voters providing about $1,800,000 annually, with it citizens’ oversight, annual independent audits, all funds benefitting East Palo Alto?	YES
	NO

SECTION 2. The full text of the proposed measure submitted to the voters is as
attached in Exhibit A to this Resolution, which is incorporated herein by this reference.
To become effective, two-thirds of the City Council must vote to place the measure on

the ballot and a majority of the voters voting on the measure must vote in the affirmative.
The tax shall be administered by the State Board of Equalization.

SECTION 3. The City Council hereby requests the San Mateo County Registrar of
Voters to provide all services necessary to conduct the Election and to conduct and
canvass the results of the Election. The City will reimburse San Mateo County for the
actual cost incurred in conducting the election when the work is completed and upon
receipt of a bill stating the amount due as determined by the elections official.

SECTION 4. In all particulars not recited in this Resolution, the election shall be
held and conduced as provided by law for holding municipal elections.

SECTION 5. Notice of the time and place of holding the election is given and the
City Clerk is authorized, instructed and directed to give further or additional notice of the
election, in time, for and a manner as required by law. The hours during which the
polling places for the Election shall be open shall be the hours established for the
Consolidated Municipal Election.

SECTION 6. The City Clerk is hereby directed to do all things required by law to
effectuate the Consolidated General Municipal Election, and to present the measure
submitted herein to the electorate, including, but not limited to, required publications,
postings, noticing and filings.

SECTION 7. Pursuant to California Elections Code Section 9280, the City
Council hereby directs the City Clerk to transmit a copy of the measure to the City
Attorney. The City Attorney shall prepare an impartial analysis of the measure, not to
exceed 500 words in length, showing the effect of the measure on the existing law and
the operation of the measure, and transmit such impartial analysis to the City Clerk
within fifteen (15) days of the adoption of this Resolution.

SECTION 8. Arguments for and against, not to exceed 300 words in length may
be filed consistent with Elections Code Section 9282 requirements. The City Council
declines, pursuant to the provisions of Section 9285 of the Elections Code to permit
rebuttal arguments.

SECTION 9. The City Clerk is herby directed to file a certified copy of this
Resolution with the San Mateo County Board of Supervisors and the San Mateo County
Registrar of Voters.

ADOPTED this I?"1 day of July 2016, by the following vote:

AYES:	ROMERO,	GAUTHIER,	RUTHERFORD,	MOODY,	ABRICA

NOES:

ABSENT:	SIGNED:

ABSTAIN:

ATTEST:	APPROVED	AS	TO	FORM:

EXHIBIT A

ORDINANCE NO.____

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF EAST PALO
ALTO ADDING CHAPTER 3.57 TO THE EAST PALO ALTO MUNICIPAL
CODE IMPOSING A TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX FOR GENERAL
PURPOSES TO BE ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE BOARD OF
EQUALIZATION SUBJECT TO THE APPROVAL OF THE VOTERS

NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF EAST
PALO ALTO DOES ORDAIN as follows:

Section 1.

Title 3 (Revenue and Finance) of the East Palo Alto Municipal Code is hereby
amended adding a new Chapter 3.57 (Transactions and Use Tax) to read as follows:

Chapter 3.57

Transactions and Use Tax

Sections:	
3.57.010	Short Title.
3.57.020	Definitions.
3.57.030	Purpose.
3.57.040	Contract with State.
3.57.050	Transactions tax rate.
3.57.060	Place of sale.
3.57.070	Use tax rate.
3.57.080	Adoption of provisions of state law.
3.57.090	Limitations on the adoption of state law and collection of use taxes.
3.57.100	Permit not required.
3.57.110	Exemptions and exclusions.
3.57.120	Annual Independent Audit and Citizen Oversight.
3.57.130	Amendments.
3.57.140	Enjoining collection forbidden.
3.57.150	Termination.

3.57.010 Short Title. This chapter shall be known as the Transactions
and Use Tax Ordinance of the City of East Palo Alto.

3.57.020 Definitions. For the purposes of this chapter the follow terms
shall have the meanings given in this section:

"City" means the incorporated territory of the City of East Palo Alto.

"Operative Date" means the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing more
than 110 days after the adoption of this chapter and the approval by the voters of the
city of a measure approving the imposition of a transactions and use tax; provided,
that if the city shall not have contracted with the State Board of Equalization as
required by section 3.57.040 prior to such date, the city shall nevertheless so contract
and in such a case the Operative Date shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter
following the execution of such a contract.

3.57.030 Purpose. This ordinance is adopted to achieve the following, among
other purposes, and directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to
accomplish those purposes:

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the provisions
of Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code and Section 7285.9 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 which authorizes the city to adopt this
tax ordinance which shall be operative if a majority of the electors voting on the
measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax at an election called for that purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates
provisions identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California
insofar as those provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and limitations
contained in Part 1,6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax and
provides a measure therefore that can be administered and collected by the State Board
of Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and requires the
least possible deviation from, the existing statutory and administrative procedures
followed by the State Board of Equalization in administering and collecting the
California State Sales and Use Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be administered
in a manner that will be, to the greatest degree possible, consistent with the provisions
of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of
collecting the transactions and use taxes, and at the same time, minimize the burden of
record keeping upon persons subject to taxation under the provisions of this ordinance.

3.57.040 Contract with State. Prior to the Operative Date, the city shall
contract with the State Board of Equalization to perform all functions incident to the
administration and operation of this chapter; provided, that if the city shall not have
contracted with the State Board of Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall
nevertheless so contract and in such a case the operative date shall be the first day of the
calendar quarter following the execution of such a contract.

3.57.050 Transactions tax rate. For the privilege of selling tangible personal
property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in the city at the rate of one-
half cent (1/2%) of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible
personal property sold at retail in the city on and after the Operative Date.

3.57.060 Place of sale. For the purposes of this chapter, all retail sales are
consummated at the place of business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property
sold is delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common
carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall
include delivery charges, when such charges are subject to the state sales and use tax,
regardless of the place to which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no permanent
place of business in the state or has more than one place of business, the place or places at
which the retail sales are consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations to
be prescribed and adopted by the State Board of Equalization.

3.57.070 Use tax rate. An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or
other consumption in the city of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer
on and after the Operative Date for storage, use or other consumption in said territory at
the rate of one-half cent (1/2%) of the sales price of the property. The sales price shall
include delivery charges when such charges are subject to state sales or use tax
regardless of the place to which delivery is made.

3.57.080 Adoption of provisions of State law. Except as otherwise provided
in this chapter and except insofar as they are inconsistent with the provisions of Part 1.6
of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1
(commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are
hereby adopted and made a part of this chapter as though fully set forth herein.

3.57.090 Limitations on the adoption of State law and collection of use taxes.

In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing
agency, the name of the city shall be substituted therefore; however, the substitution
shall not be made when:

1.	The word "State" is used as a part of the title of the State Controller, State
Treasurer, Victim Compensation and Government Claims Board, State Board of
Control, State Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or the Constitution of the State of
California;

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against
the city or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by or against the State
Board of Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the administration or
operation of this chapter.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sections referring
to the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the result of the substitution
would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales, storage,
use or other consumption of tangible personal property which would not otherwise be
exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other consumption remain subject
to tax by the State under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, or

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other
consumption of tangible personal property which would not be subject to tax by the
state under the provision of that code.

4.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711, 6715,
6737, 6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

B.	The word "city" shall be substituted for the word "State" in the phrase "retailer
engaged in business in this State" in Section 6203 and in the definition of that phrase in
Section 6203.

3.57.100 Permit not required. If a seller's permit has been issued to a retailer
under Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional transactor's permit
shall not be required by this chapter.

3.57.110 Exemptions and exclusions.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the use
tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or by any
city, city and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Bums Uniform Local Sales and
Use Tax Law or the amount of any state-administered transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax
the gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum products, to
operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the county in which the
sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers
of persons or property under the authority of the laws of this state, the United States, or
any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the city which is shipped to a point
outside the city, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by the retailer
or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at
such point. For the purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point outside the city shall
be satisfied:

a.	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject to
registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the
Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities
Code, and undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with
Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration to an out-of-city address and by a
declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that such address is, in
fact, his or her principal place of residence; and

b.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of business
out-of-city and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, that the
vehicle will be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to furnish the
property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the Operative Date
of this chapter.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such
property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the property
for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the Operative Date of this chapter.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, the sale or lease
of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract
or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the
unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such
right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this chapter, the storage,
use or other consumption in the city of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a transactions
tax under any state-administered transactions and use tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of aircraft and
used or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft
as common carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under a certificate
of public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this state, the United
States, or any foreign government. This exemption is in addition to the exemptions
provided in Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of
California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price
pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this chapter.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the tangible
personal property arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such property
for any period of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the property for an
amount fixed by a lease prior to the Operative Date of this chapter.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, storage, use, or
other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power over, tangible
personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for
any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional
right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is
exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in business in the
city shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible personal
property, unless the retailer ships or delivers the property into the city or participates
within the city in making the sale of the property, including, but not limited to, soliciting
or receiving the order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer
in the city or through any representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or
person in the city under the authority of the retailer.

7.	A retailer engaged in business in the city" shall also include any retailer of
any of the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing
with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance
with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels registered
under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer
shall be required to collect use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the
vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the city.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this chapter may credit against that tax
any transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district imposing, or
retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code with respect to the sale to the person of the property the storage, use
or other consumption of which is subject to the use tax.

3.57.120	Annual Independent Audit and Citizen Oversight.

A.	Annual Independent Audit. An accounting of the revenues generated by this
ordinance, and how such revenues are used, shall be included in the annual financial
audit performed by the independent auditors hired by the city council to conduct the
audit of, and provide audited financial statements for, the city's financial activities.

B.	Citizen Oversight. Annually, the city council shall hold a community forum
to review the financial audit results and discuss use of the revenues generated by this
ordinance. Such forum shall include a discussion of spending priorities related to this
ordinance as part of the city’s annual strategic goal-setting and budget process. A report
shall be prepared detailing how the funds are being used to address the city council's
strategic priorities.

3.57.130 Amendments. All amendments subsequent to the Operative Date of
this chapter to Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales
and use taxes and which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part of this
chapter, provided however, that no such amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate
of tax imposed by this chapter.

3.57.140 Enjoining collection forbidden. No injunction or writ of mandate or
other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit, action or proceeding in any court
against the state or the city, or against any officer of the state or the city, to prevent or
enjoin the collection under this chapter, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.

3.57.150 Termination. The authority to levy the tax imposed by this chapter
shall not expire, unless ended by a vote of the people of the City of East Palo Alto.

Section 2.

Severability. If any provision of this Ordinance or the application thereof to any person or
circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the Ordinance and the application of such
provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

The City Council hereby declares that it would have passed this and each section, subsection,
phrase or clause thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, subsections,
phrase or clauses be declared unconstitutional on their face or as applied.

Section 3.

Effective date. This Ordinance relates to the levying and collecting of the city transactions
and use taxes and shall take effect immediately; however, no tax imposed by this Ordinance
shall be imposed until approved by the voters of the City as required by section 2(b) of Article
Xlll C of the California Constitution and applicable law.

Section 4.

Declaration. The proceeds of the taxes imposed by this Ordinance may be used for any
lawful purpose of the city, as authorized by ordinance, resolution or action of the City
Council or by ordinance adopted by the electorate of the city. These taxes do not meet the
criteria established by Section 1(d) of Article XIIIC of the California Constitution for
special taxes, and are general taxes imposed for general government purposes.

Section 5.

Relationship to existing tax. The tax imposed by this Ordinance is separate from, and in
addition to, any transactions and use tax currently imposed by the city. Nothing in this
Ordinance shall be interpreted to affect the rate or administration of any tax other than the
tax imposed by this Ordinance.

This Ordinance was introduced by the City Council of the City of East Palo Alto at a regular
meeting of said Council held on the 5th day of July 2016.