San Jose, California, General Sales Tax,
Measure B (June 2016)

| Text of measure

Ballot question

The following question appeared on the ballot;!2]

// To fund essential City services such as: improving police response to

reduce violent crimes and burglaries; improving 911/emergency medical/fire
response times; repairing potholes and streets; expanding gang prevention;
and maintaining the City’s long-term financial stability, shall the City of San
Jose enact a 14 percent sales tax for 15 years, providing about $40 million
annually, requiring Independent Citizens Oversight with public review of
spending, and all revenues controlled locally?!3)

Impartial analysis

The following impartial analysis of the measure was prepared by the office of the
San Jose City Attorney:

Measure B is a ballot measure that, if approved by a majority of the voters, would
amend the San Jose Municipal Code to enact a one quarter percent (0.25%)
transactions and use tax. The Measure is a "general" tax, which means the City of
San Jose may use the tax revenues for any governmental purpose, including
improving police response to reduce violent crimes and burglaries; improving
911/emergency medical/fire response times; repairing potholes and streets;
expanding gang prevention; and maintaining the City's long-term financial stability.
The tax would terminate automatically on September 30, 2031, unless extended by
voters.

If approved. Measure B would also require annual financial audits and yearly
reports of the tax revenues. Additionally, the City Council would be required to
appoint an independent citizen oversight committee that would review expenditures
of the tax revenues.

While Measure B, which was placed on the ballot by the City Council, is a
"transactions and use tax", it is commonly referred to as a sales tax. A transactions
and use tax is levied on the same purchases as the existing sales tax with some
minor exceptions.

Currently, the cumulative tax rate on retail sales in San Jose is 8.75% of the
purchase price. The tax revenue is allocated among the State, Santa Clara County,
the City, and other public agencies. San Jose's share is 1% of the purchase price,

Measure B would increase the cumulative tax rate in San Jose to 9.00% and San
Jose's share would increase from 1% to 1.25%.

Retailers and other businesses that collect the sales tax and the transactions and use
tax at the time of sale remit the funds to the State Board of Equalization which
administers these taxes, including transmitting payment to the City.

A ”Yes” vote is a vote to approve a one-quarter percent transactions and use tax for
15 years.

A “No” vote is a vote against the transactions and use tax pl
—San Jose City Attorney14!

Arguments in favor

The following official argument was submitted in favor of the measured

Mayor Liccardo, San Jose police officers, firefighters, and business leaders agree:
Measure B will make our city safer and stronger.

Measure B is needed to improve police response times. We have lost hundreds of
police officers, making it difficult to respond quickly to 911 calls. Measure B will
make funding available to hire more officers.

Measure B is needed to reduce response times for medical emergencies, when every
second counts. Measure B raises funds that can be used to ensure that those
suffering from heart attacks, strokes, or other emergencies get an immediate
response.

Measure B is needed to help fight gangs and drug crimes. It will raise funds that can
be used to expand gang suppression and prevention programs, crack down on drug
dealers, and provide options for at-risk youth.

Measure B is needed to repair roads and infrastructure. San Jose has over 550 miles
of major streets and neighborhood roads rated as being in "poor" or "failed"
condition, with many containing huge potholes. Every dollar of Measure B revenue
used to fix poor roads today will save $5 reconstructing those same roads later.

Measure B allows us to avoid debt and provides needed funding to invest in
important basic services like:

•	Improving 911 police and fire response times;

•	Improving police response to violent and property crimes;

•	Restoring additional police officers on patrol;

•	Expanding proven anti-crime programs like gang prevention and after-school
academics;

•	Restoring fire engines, paramedic and firefighting services;

•	Repairing streets.

Measure B has strong.accountability provisions. It requires independent citizens
oversight and annual financial audits to help ensure funds are spent appropriately.

Now that we've tightened our belts through fiscal reforms and cut costs, we need
this temporary measure to restore basic city services.

For a safer san Jose, vote Yes on Measure B.pi

Arguments against

The following official argument was submitted in opposition to the measure:^

// Budgets reflect priorities, especially with expenditures.

What's in the budget is a priority.

What is NOT in the budget is NOT a priority.

That means that the projects the San Jose City Council wants to fund (police, fire,
road improvements) with new taxes are NOT a priority because they're not in the
current budget.

If it's NOT a priority for the City Council, why should the voters of San Jose
support any new taxes? Answer: they shouldn't.

The streets of San Jose are terrible. If the San Jose City Council thinks they are a
priority, then why is road maintenance under-funded?

Because they don't consider roads a priority. Do you agree?

The City Council says we need to hire more police to be fully staffed. Again, if
money for new police isn't in the current budget, that means that everything
currently in the budget is higher priority than a fully staffed police department is.
Do you agree?

What does the City Council think is more important than police, fire, and roads?

Answer: Three golf courses, a luxury hotel, the Mexican Heritage Plaza, and
millions to subsidize art groups that go bankrupt. Do you agree?

Remember, sales taxes are regressive: they most hurt the poor, the unemployed, the
homeless, and those on fixed incomes.

Furthermore, high sales taxes drive consumers to shop the internet to avoid sales
taxes, hurting local businesses, and local jobs.

One final thought: the levels of taxes we pay are either:

1. too high 2. about right 3. too low

If you think taxes are too low, by all means, raise them. But, if you think taxes are
about right or too high, you should oppose this sales tax increase, and Vote NO on
Measure B.121