CHIEF ELECTIONS OFFICER
OF SAN MATEO COUNTY. CALIF.

IN THE OFFICE OF THE

AUG 08 2016

RESOLUTION NO. 16-07-27B

RESOLUTION OF THE BOARD OF EDUCATION OF THE JEFFER$Wa
ELEMENTARY SCHOOL DISTRICT CALLING FOR A NOVEMBER 8, 2016
ELECTION TO APPROVE AN EDUCATION AND LOCAL CONTROL

PARCEL TAX

WHEREAS, the Jefferson Elementary School District (the “District”) is devoted to
quality well-rounded public education and believes that all local students deserve equal access to
a quality education; and

WHEREAS, the District believes schools with effective programs in math, science,
technology, reading and writing will attract and retain high-quality teachers; and

WHEREAS, the District’s elementary and middle schools are among the lowest funded
in San Mateo County and one of the only elementary school districts on the Peninsula without a
voter-approved local funding source; and

WHEREAS, the District requires a stable local funding to maintain our core programs in
math, science, reading, technology and writing, to maintain hands-on science learning
opportunities, and to maintain dedicated literacy instruction to help struggling students read at
their grade levels; and

WHEREAS, Article XIIIA, Section 4 of the California Constitution and Sections 50075
et seq.. of the California Government Code permit a school district to propose a parcel tax for
specified purposes and to levy such tax following approval by at least two-thirds of the voters
voting upon the proposition; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Education (the “Board”) of the District proposes to place a
measure on the November 8, 2016 ballot to approve a quality education and local control parcel
tax upon parcels of land within the District for the purposes set forth in this Resolution; and

WHEREAS, the Board will apply all the proceeds of the parcel tax to support high
achieving core academic programs in math, science, technology, reading and writing, and for
uses as set forth in this Resolution, and will not use any of said proceeds for administrator’s
salaries, benefits or pensions; and

WHEREAS, all expenditures of the parcel tax will be subject to citizen oversight and
annual reports to ensure funds are spent appropriately; and

WHEREAS, the Board proposes to enact the parcel tax because the revenues will benefit
only the District’s schools and cannot be taken by the State of California or by other school
districts; and

1

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the Board of Education of the Jefferson
Elementary School District as follows:

Section 1. This Board finds and determines that the foregoing recitals are true and

correct.

Section 2. This Board hereby proposes to establish the levy of the quality education and
local control parcel tax to provide stable local funding the State cannot take away to help:

•	Protect math, science, reading, technology and writing programs;

•	Expand hands-on science learning opportunities;

•	Maintain dedicated literacy instruction to help struggling students read at their grade
level;

•	Attract, retain and train high-quality teachers;

•	Support after-school and summer school programs, including homework centers;

•	Enhance art and music classes;

•	Support school libraries; and

•	Protect the taxpayers’ investment in education and ensure District accountability by
providing for taxpayer oversight and independent financial audits of revenues and
expenditures.

UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES SHALL ANY OF THE PROCEEDS OF THE
QUALITY EDUCATION AND LOCAL CONTROL PARCEL TAX BE USED FOR
ADMINISTRATORS’ SALARIES, BENEFITS OR PENSIONS.

Pursuant to Government Code Section 50075.1 the Board determines that the proceeds of
the quality education and local control parcel tax shall only be applied for the purposes stated
above.

Section 3. Subject to voter approval, the quality education and local control parcel tax
shall be $68 per year per Parcel, commence on July 1, 2017 and shall continue for nine years
from that date.

As used herein, the term “Parcel” means any parcel of land which lies wholly or partially
within the boundaries of the District, for which the San Mateo County Assessor/Tax Collector
(together, “Tax Collector”), issues a separate tax bill for ad valorem property taxes; provided,
however, that any such parcels which are (i) contiguous, and (ii) used solely for owner-occupied,
single-family residential purposes, and (iii) held under identical ownership, may, by submitting

2

an application of the owners thereof by June 15 of any year to the District be treated as a single
parcel for purposes of the levy of this quality education local control parcel tax.

Section 4. Subject to voter approval as set forth below, the parcel tax shall be levied
commencing with the 2017-2018 (starting on July 1, 2017) fiscal year of the District, and shall
be collected with, and in the same manner and subject to the same interest and penalties as
general ad valorem taxes collected by the San Mateo County Treasurer and Tax Collector.
In accordance with the requirements of Government Code Section 50075.1(c), the District shall
create a separate account into which the proceeds of the special tax shall be deposited.

Section 5. The levy and collection of the parcel tax is not intended to decrease or offset
any increase in local, state or federal government funding sources that would otherwise be
available to the District at any time during which the parcel tax may be levied. In the event that
the levy and collection of the parcel tax does have such an effect, the District shall reduce the
parcel tax levy to the extent of any such decrease or offset. Additionally, any persons who are
the owner of a Parcel used solely for owner-occupied, single-family residential purposes, and
either (a) 65 years of age or older on or before June 30 of the fiscal year immediately preceding
the fiscal year in which the tax should apply, or (b) receiving Supplemental Security Income for
a disability regardless of age, or (c) receiving Social Security Disability Insurance benefits,
regardless of age, whose yearly income does not exceed 250 percent of the 2012 federal poverty
guidelines issued by the United States Department of Health and Human Services, may obtain an
exemption from the levy of the high quality education and local control parcel tax, by submitting
to the District an application of such owners or persons, prior to June 15 of any year.

Section 6. The Board shall provide in each year (pursuant to Section 7902.1 of the
Government Code) for any increase in the District’s appropriation limit as shall be necessary to
ensure that proceeds of the parcel tax may be spent for the authorized purposes set forth in
Section 2 above and Section 7 below.

Section 7. The Board hereby requests that the San Mateo County Registrar of Voters
submit the measure attached hereto as Exhibit B to the voters of the District and to print the
entire Full Ballot Text in the ballot pamphlet to be published and mailed for the election
scheduled for Tuesday, November 8,2016.

The abbreviated text of the ballot proposition with respect to the foregoing measure shall
read as shown in Exhibit A hereto.

The District's Superintendent, or designee, is hereby authorized and directed to make any
changes to the text of the measure, or to the abbreviated form of the measure, as may be
convenient or necessary to comply with the intent of this Resolution, the requirements of
elections officials, and requirements of law.

Section 8. The measure set forth in Exhibits A and B shall be submitted to the voters of
the District at an election to be held on November 8, 2016. If approved by at least two-thirds of
the voters voting on the measure, the measure shall take effect on July 1, 2017.

3

Section 9. This Resolution shall stand as the order to the San Mateo County Registrar of
Voters, respectively, to call an election within the boundaries of the District on November 8,
2016. This Board requests that the District election be consolidated with any and all elections to
be held within the boundaries of the District on November 8, 2016. Pursuant to Elections Code
Section 10403 the Board acknowledges that the consolidation election will be held and
conducted in the manner prescribed in Elections Code Section 10408.

Section 10. The Board hereby requests that the San Mateo County Registrar of Voters or
other appropriate election officials of San Mateo County, take all actions which are necessary or
appropriate in connection with the election, including, but not limited to, printing and mailing
sample ballots, arguments and applications for absentee ballots, canvassing election returns and
certifying the results of the election to the Board. The Board hereby agrees to reimburse San
Mateo County in full for any services performed by each for the District upon presentation of an
invoice to the District.

Section 11. The Secretary of the Board is hereby authorized and directed to deliver a
copy of this Resolution to the San Mateo County Superintendent of Schools by August 9, 2016
and the Registrars of Voters/Elections Department of San Mateo County, as well as the Clerk of
the Board of Supervisors of San Mateo County, not later than August 12, 2016, and to give
notice of the election by causing the Registrar of Voters/Elections Department to publish the text
of the measure and other items, not later than 15 days before the date of the election. The
Secretary of the Board is hereby further authorized and directed to post a copy of this Resolution
on or near the doors of the District Office and in three public places within the District for at
least two weeks before the date of the election.

Section 12. If any section, subsection, phrase or clause of this Resolution is for any
reason found to be invalid, such section, subsection, phrase or clause shall be severed from, and
shall not affect the validity of, all remaining portions of this Resolution which can be given
effect without the severed portion.

Section 13. The members of the Board are hereby authorized, but not directed, to prepare
and file with the San Mateo County Registrar of Voters/Election Department, respectively, a
ballot argument in favor of the proposition contained in Section 7 hereof, within the time
established by such Department.

Section 14. Subject to two-thirds approval of the District’s voters, the parcel tax shall be
collected by the San Mateo County Tax Collector, at the same time and manner and shall be
subject to the same penalties as ad valorem property taxes collected by the Tax Collector. The
Parcel Tax shall bear interest at the same rate for unpaid ad valorem property taxes until paid.

Section 15. The chief fiscal officer of the District shall, pursuant to Government Code
Section 50075.3, file an annual report to the Board of Education as provided herein accounting
for the high quality education and local control tax revenues collected and the manner in which
they have been spent.

4

Section 16. The officers of the District are, and each of them acting alone is, hereby
directed to take such other actions and to execute such other documents as are necessary to carry
out the purposes of this Resolution.

Section 17. Pursuant to Elections Code Section 10400 the Board requests the governing
body of any such other political subdivision, or any officer otherwise authorized by law, to
partially or completely consolidate such election and to further provide that the canvass be made
by anybody or official authorized by law to canvass the returns of the election, and that the
Board consents to such consolidation.

The foregoing Resolution was adopted by the Board of Education of the Jefferson
Elementary School District at a regular meeting held on July 27, 2016 by the following vote:

AYES:	 5

NOES:	 0

ABSTAIN: ___0

ABSENT:	0

Jefferson Elementary School District

5

EXHIBIT A

ABBREVIATED BALLOT TEXT

“To maintain and enhance quality education with local funding the State cannot take away by /S
protecting core academics in math, science, technology, reading and writing; attracting and
retaining high quality teachers; supporting students struggling to read at grade level; and 13
providing after-school/ homework programs, shall Jefferson Elementary School District levy $68 °\
per parcel annually, for nine years, exempting seniors, with independent citizens’ oversight, no 17
money for administrators and all funds for our community’s elementary and middle schools?” 13

Yes	No______

EXHIBIT B

♦START OF FULL BALLOT TEXT*

JEFFERSON ELEMENTARY SCHOOL DISTRICT
Quality Education and Local Control Funding Measure_

INTRODUCTION AND PURPOSE

To provide funding for core programs in math, science, technology, reading and writing,
provide local reliable funding for local schools that cannot be taken by the State, attract and
retain highly qualified teachers, maintain hands-on science learning opportunities, upgrade
classrooms, computers and instructional technology, support teaching assistants and counselors
and extend library hours, with no proceeds used for administrators’ salaries, benefits and
pensions, the Jefferson Elementary School District (“District”) proposes a quality education and
local control parcel tax for a period of nine years starting on July 1, 2017 at a rate of $68 per
parcel per year, with an exemption available for senior citizens and certain disabled persons, and
to implement accountability measures, including citizen oversight, to ensure the funds are used
to help:

•	Protect math, science, reading, technology and writing programs;

•	Expand hands-on science learning opportunities;

•	Maintain dedicated literacy instruction to help struggling students read at their grade
level;

•	Attract, retain and train high-quality teachers;

•	Support after-school and summer school programs, including homework centers;

•	Enhance art and music classes;

•	Support school libraries; and

•	Protect the taxpayers’ investment in education and ensure District accountability by
providing for taxpayer oversight and independent financial audits of revenues and
expenditures.

The proceeds of the parcel tax shall be deposited into a separate account created by the
District.

B-l

DEFINITION OF “PARCEL”

For purposes of the education and local control parcel tax, the term “Parcel” means any
parcel of land which lies wholly or partially within the boundaries of the Jefferson Elementary
School District, that receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem property taxes from the San
Mateo County Assessor/Tax Collector, as applicable. All property that is otherwise exempt from
or upon which are levied no ad valorem property taxes in any year shall also be exempt from the
education and local control parcel tax in such year.

For purposes of this education and local control parcel tax, any such “Parcels” which are
(i) contiguous, and (ii) used solely for owner-occupied, single-family residential purposes, and
(iii) held under identical ownership may, by submitting to the District an application of the
owners thereof by June 15 of any year, be treated as a single “parcel” for purposes of the levy of
the high quality education and local control parcel tax.

EXEMPTION FOR SENIORS AND SSI RECIPIENTS

Pursuant to California Government Code Section 50079 (b)(1), any owner of a Parcel
used solely for owner-occupied, single-family residential purposes and who are either (a) 65
years of age or older on or before June 30 of the fiscal year immediately preceding the year in
which the tax would apply, or (b) persons receiving Supplemental Security Income for a
disability, regardless of age, or (c) receiving Social Security Disability Insurance benefits,
regardless of age, whose yearly income does not exceed 250 percent of the 2012 federal poverty
guidelines issued by the United States Department of Health and Human Services, may obtain an
exemption from the parcel tax by submitting an application therefore, by June 15 of any year, to
the District.

With respect to all general property tax matters within its jurisdiction, the San Mateo
County Treasurer and Tax Collector or other appropriate county tax officials, shall make all final
determinations of tax exemption or relief for any reason, and that decision shall be final and
binding. With respect to matters specific to the levy of the high quality education and local
control parcel tax, including any exemptions and the classification of property for purposes of
calculating the tax, the decisions of the District shall be final and binding.

B-2

REDUCTION IN TAX IF RESULT IS LESS OTHER GOVERNMENT SUPPORT

The collection of the education and local control parcel tax is not intended to decrease or
offset any increase in local, state or federal government revenue sources that would otherwise be
available to the District during the period of the parcel tax. In the event that the levy and
collection does have such an effect, the District may cease the levy or shall reduce the parcel tax
to the extent that such action would restore the amount of the decrease or offset in other
revenues.

ACCOUNTABILITY MEASURES

In accordance with the requirements of California Government Code Sections 50075.1
and 50075.3, the following accountability measures, among others, shall apply to the parcel tax
levied in accordance with this Measure: (a) the specific purposes of the parcel tax shall be those
purposes identified above; (b) the proceeds of the parcel tax shall be applied only to those
specific purposes identified above; (c) a separate, special account shall be created into which the
proceeds of the education and local control parcel tax must be deposited; and (d) an annual
written report shall be made to the Board of Education of the District showing (i) the amount of
funds collected and expended from the proceeds of the high quality education and local control
parcel tax and (ii) the status of any projects or programs required or authorized to be funded from
the proceeds of the parcel tax, as identified above. In addition to the accountability measures
required by law, the District will maintain its existing Citizens’ Oversight Committee to provide
oversight as to the expenditure of parcel tax revenues.

*End of Full Ballot Text of Measure*

B-3

EXHIBIT C

FORMAL NOTICE OF PARCEL TAX ELECTION

NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN to the qualified electors of the Jefferson Elementary School
District that in accordance with the provisions of the Government Code of the State of
California, an election will be held on November 8, 2016, at which election the following
proposition shall be submitted to the qualified electors of the District and voted upon:

“To maintain and enhance quality education with local funding the State cannot take away by
protecting core academics in math, science, technology, reading and writing; attracting and
retaining high quality teachers; supporting students struggling to read at grade level; and
providing after-school/ homework programs, shall Jefferson Elementary School District levy $68
per parcel annually, for nine years, exempting seniors, with independent citizens’ oversight, no
money for administrators and all funds for our community’s elementary and middle schools?”

The San Mateo County Superintendent of Schools, by this Notice of Election, has called
the election pursuant to a Resolution of the Board of Education of the Jefferson Elementary
School District, adopted on July 27,2016.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this 29th day of
July________2016.

San Mateo County Superintendent of Schools

C-l