From Voter's Edge

Cameron Estates Community Services
District

Measure K Parcel Tax - 2/3 Approval
Required

Impartial analysis / Proposal

This measure, if approved by 2/3 of the voters voting on the measure, would authorize a special
tax on parcels of real property in the Cameron Estates Community Services District (“District”),
to be used for the costs to fund improvements and upgrades to the roads and to increase the level
of maintenance of the roads within the District.

This special tax increase would be in an amount not to exceed $400 per parcel per year. The
special tax authorized by this measure would commence on July 1, 2017 and would replace an
existing special tax of $250 imposed on parcels within the District.

The special tax may be listed as a separate item on the county property tax bill for each affected
parcel of land, and will be collected in the same way as the general property tax. All laws
applicable to the levy, collection, and enforcement of county property taxes, including the
provisions for penalties and the procedures for sale of the property in case of delinquency, may
also apply to the special tax.

State law requires the proceeds from the special tax be applied only to the identified purposes,
and that an annual report be made indicating the amount of funds collected and expended and the
status of any project required or authorized to be funded by the proceeds.

This measure was placed on the ballot by Resolution No. 2016-01 of the Board of Directors of
the District.

A “YES” vote is a vote to authorize an increase in the annual special tax by $150.00 per parcel
per year.

A “NO” vote is a vote against an increase in the annual special tax.

— Michael J. Ciccozzi, County Counsel

Financial effect

YES vote means

A “YES” vote is a vote to authorize an increase in the annual special tax by $150.00 per parcel
per year.

NO vote means

A “NO” vote is a vote against an increase in the annual special tax.

Arguments FOR

The current yearly assessment is $250.00 per parcel and has been that same amount for over 30
years. Measure K asks the voters for an additional $150.00 in the yearly assessment in order to
provide for needed road improvements, upgrades, and maintenance for the 16 miles of roadways
in the District. If Measure K passes, then the District would be able to fill potholes that surface
during the year, perform the needed improvements to preserve and protect the roadways,
maintain culverts and road edges, and decrease drainage problems that erode the roadways.

Doris Miller, Director

David Proft, Director

James Sholl, Director

Ken Moonitz, Director

Eva Robertson, Director

Arguments FOR

The current yearly assessment is $250.00 per parcel and has been that same amount for over 30
years. Measure K asks the voters for an additional $150.00 in the yearly assessment in order to
provide for needed road improvements, upgrades, and maintenance for the 16 miles of roadways
in the District. If Measure K passes, then the District would be able to fill potholes that surface
during the year, perform the needed improvements to preserve and protect the roadways,
maintain culverts and road edges, and decrease drainage problems that erode the roadways.

Doris Miller, Director

David Proft, Director

James Sholl, Director

Ken Moonitz, Director

Eva Robertson, Director

Arguments AGAINST

Arguments AGAINST

During the regular meeting in May of 2016 the Cameron Estate Community Services District
Board stated they had not conducted a study to determine the need for an increase in the
District’s special tax, nor did they have a business plan for the use of the money if the measure
passed. The requested amount was arbitrarily selected as they have done in the past.

In 2006 Measure H would have permanently increased the special tax by $950 per parcel to
$1200 per residential parcel per year. The increased taxes would have made it possible to make
major improvements in all the District roads. Once the District roads were improved road
maintenance costs would have been significantly reduced below current annual needs. A
temporary increase in the special tax would have been more appropriate, yet there was no sunset
clause for the proposed increase.

Consider as an example that in 1989 EID had Teichert completely rebuild Cameron Road after
their sewer project was completed. Cameron Road has required almost zero maintenance over
the past 27 years.

Working within the current budget, the District was able to upgrade part of Flying C Road. Now
Flying C from Cambridge to Cameron Road is virtually maintenance free. There are other
District roads that could be upgraded in a similar fashion within the current budget. Every mile
of improved roads reduces the need for maintenance and increases the funds available for
additional improvements.

The voters did not approve Measure D in 2014 for an increase of $100, why would we approve
an increase of $150 in 2016. Oil is currently less than half of its price in 2014.

Vote No on Measure K

David L Leippe

Replies to Arguments FOR

True, the District’s special tax per parcel has not changed in over 30 years. However, since the
inception of Cameron Estates the number of parcels has increased over 40% from 200 parcels to
over 280 parcels. Since the last voter approved special tax in 1989 the revenues have increased
by property annexations. The pocket annexation in 1989 added 39 parcels or approximately a
20% increase in parcels and revenue.

The District doesn’t mention the other source of revenue, ad valorem taxes. Ad valorem taxes are
based upon property values. Ad valorem taxes increase with annexations, increasing property
values, and improved parcels.

According to District documents revenues from special taxes have increased from $63,000 in
1989 to $72,000 in 2015, or about 114%.

Ad valorem tax dollars increased from $25,900 in 1989 to $82,115 in 2015, or about 317%. Total
revenues have increased from about $110,000 in 1989 to about $353,000 in 2015, or about
315%.

The special tax should not be increased indefinitely for capital improvements.

As more miles of district roads are improved the need for maintenance decreases.

If increased funding is proven to be necessary for capital improvements the funding should have
a sunset.

When oil prices were twice as high, the CECSD found ways with the current revenues to make
significant improvements to Flying C Road and other problem areas.

Vote No on Measure K

David L Leippe

Replies to Arguments AGAINST

Road work is discussed at every Board meeting and the Directors have been working for years
surveying roads and prioritizing work to make the difficult decisions on what projects to do. We
are shocked that anyone would say the Board doesn’t have a plan when roads are discussed at
every meeting in order to formulate the plan and strategy that makes up the yearly road bid
package.

The decision to ask voters for an additional $150 per year for road maintenance was not arbitrary
and was discussed at length at the March meeting. Directors discussed that this increase would
give the District an additional $43,650 per year so that each year potholes could be fixed, we
could perform needed crack sealing, drainage problems could be fixed, and any surplus be
carried over for a future large project.

Director reports regularly given at meetings show that several roads are failing due to ditch,
shoulder backing and drainage problems, and deteriorating culverts causing water to undermine
roads. These issues need to be fixed soon and this has nothing to do with oil prices. Even the
good roads need maintenance, including Cameron, Strollng Hills, and Flying C Roads which
required crack sealing, culvert and drainage repair since 2013 amounting to $77,192. That is not
zero spending and the roads are not maintenance free.

David Proft, Director

Doris Miller, Director

Ken Moonitz, Director

James Sholl, Director
Proposed legislation
REVISED RESOLUTION NO. 2016-01

OF THE CAMERON ESATES COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
PROPOSING A BALLOT MEASURE TO INCREASE THE SPECIAL TAX WITHIN
THE DISTRICT TO PROVIDE FOR IMPROVEMENTS, UPGRADES AND
INCREASED MAINTENANCE OF THE DISTRICT’S ROADS

WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of the Cameron Estates Community Services District
wishes to submit to the voters of the District a proposal to fund improvements and upgrades to
the roads within the District and to increase the level of maintenance of the roads; and

WHEREAS, Government Code § 50075 et. seq. provides authority for special districts to
impose special taxes; and

WHEREAS, the Board has determined that an increase of the existing tax rate is necessary in
order to adequately fund needed road improvements and upgrades and to increase the level of
road maintenance within the District; and

WHEREAS, the Board has determined that the electors within the District should have the
opportunity to decide whether the level of funding for road improvements, upgrades and
maintenance should be increased; and

WHEREAS, Government Code §53722 provides that a special tax must be submitted to the
electorate of the District and approved by a two-thirds vote of the voters voting on the issue.

NOW THEREFORE, BE IT HEREBY RESOLVED by the Board of Directors of the
Cameron Estates Community Services District as follows:

1.	The Board shall submit to the voters the question of whether to increase a special tax within
the District for the purpose of needed improvements, upgrades and an increased level of
maintenance of the roads within the District.

2.	A measure shall be placed on the ballot at the statewide general election to be held on
November 8, 2016, for an increase of the special tax within the boundaries of the District to fund
road improvements, upgrades and increased maintenance.

3.	The measure shall appear on the ballot in substantially the following form:

“Shall the Cameron Estates Community Services District levy a special tax for the purpose of
providing needed road

improvements, upgrades, and maintenance at an annual rate not to exceed an increase of $150.00
per year per parcel over and above the current rate, for a total not to exceed $400.00 per parcel
per year?”

4.	A certified copy of this Resolution shall be delivered to the Office of the El Dorado County
Clerk and the County Clerk shall be directed to conduct said election pursuant to applicable laws
of the State of California.

5.	In accordance with applicable laws, the Cameron Estates Community Services District shall
reimburse the County of El Dorado for the costs of such election.

6.	If approved by the electorate as set forth above, said special tax shall be levied and collected in
accordance with this resolution and shall be collected in the same manner and subject to the same
penalty as, or with, other charges and taxes fixed and collected by the District or by the County
of El Dorado.

7.	Pursuant to Government Code § 50075.1 the specific purposes of the special taxes are hereby
identified as providing road improvements, upgrades, and maintenance within the District.

8.	The proceeds of the special tax shall only be applied to the specific purposes identified above
and the proceeds of the special tax shall be deposited into the existing special account.

9.	The District shall prepare an annual report pursuant to Government Code § 50075.3 to
determine the amount of funds collected and expended and to identify the purpose for which the
special tax funds have been expended.

10.	In the event of any ambiguity, uncertainty or conflict regarding the application of the special
tax to a particular parcel of land, such ambiguity shall be resolved by formal motion of the Board
of Directors of the Cameron Estates Community Services District.