FREMONT UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT MEASURE I

"To continue providing Fremont	yES

schools stable funding for quality _______________

local education/programs that cannot	jyQ

be taken away by the State, maintaining [_____
math, science, reading and writing programs, relieving
overcrowding in classrooms, and attracting/retaining
qualified teachers including quality science teachers,
shall the Fremont Unified School District renew its
expiring voter approved $73 per parcel tax, for nine years,
exempting seniors, with no money for administrator
salaries and all money benefiting local schools?"

collected and expended and the status of any project.
Proceeds may not be used for any non-specified purposes,
such as administrator salaries. The District will also
maintain the existing citizens’ oversight committee to
provide oversight of the revenue expenditures.

If two-thirds of the qualified electors voting on this
measure do not vote for approval, the measure will fail,
and the District will not be authorized to levy the special
tax.

This measure is placed on the ballot by the governing
board of the District.

COUNTY COUNSEL'S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF
MEASURE !

ANALYSIS BY THE COUNTY COUNSEL OF A
FREMONT UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT SPECIAL
PARCEL TAX MEASURE
Measure I, a Fremont Unified School District
("District") special parcel tax measure, seeks voter
approval to authorize the District to levy an annual special
parcel tax in the amount of $73 on each parcel of taxable
real property for a period of nine years, beginning July 1,
2016. The District’s voters previously authorized Measure
K, which is a special parcel tax assessment at a rate of
$53 per parcel that will expire on December 10, 2016. If
approved, this measure will replace Measure K.

A school district has the authority to levy special
taxes upon approval by two-thirds of the votes cast on the
special tax proposal (See Cal Const. Art. XIII A, § 4; Art.
XIII C, §2; Cal Gov't Code §§ 50075-50077, 50079, &
53722.) If two-thirds of the qualified electors voting on
this measure vote for approval, a special parcel tax will
be imposed annually for nine years at the rate described
above. The tax will be collected by the Alameda County
Treasurer-Tax Collector at the same time and in the same
manner as ad valorem property' taxes are collected.

Upon application to the District, an exemption of any
tax assessment year may be granted to any owner of a parcel
used solely for owner-occupied, single-family residential
purposes who is: aged 65 years and over; receiving
Supplement Security Income for a disability regardless
of age; or receiving Social Security Disability Insurance
benefits regardless of age with a yearly income below a
certain amount Any person who receives an exemption
from Measure K automatically qualifies for an exemption
from Measure I without filing a new application.

If two-thirds of the qualified electors voting on this
measure vote for approval the allocation of the funding
revenue will be used for the specific purposes set forth in the
full text of the measure printed in this sample ballot. These
purposes include, among others, attracting and retaining
teachers, keeping school libraries open, protecting student
safety and security, and relieving classroom overcrowding.
The measure further provides that the District’s Board
shall receive an annual written report detailing the funds

s/DONNA R. ZIEGLER
County Counsel

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure I,
which is printed in full in this sample ballot pamphlet. If
you desire an additional copy of the measure, please cal!
the Elections Official's office at (510) 272-6933 and a copy
will be mailed at no cost to you. You may also access the
full text of the measure on the Alameda County website at
the following address: www.acgov.org/rov/.

FRMM

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE I

Fremont’s outstanding schools need Measure I to renew
existing voter-approved local funding that maintains
quality education for Fremont’s students. Thanks to your
support, our schools have implemented essential academic
programs that our students still need.

YES on I will allow the Fremont Unified School
District to preserve math, science, reading and writing
programs, keep school libraries open, support classroom
technology and protect student safety and security. By
improving local teaching and learning environments, Yes
on I attracts, supports, and retains highly qualified teachers.
YES on I will allow FUSD to preserve essential programs
to prepare students for college and the workforce with voter
approved local funding that the State cannot take away.
YES on I includes strong oversight that guarantees benefits
to all schools and provides fiscal accountability including:
S Independent Citizens’ Oversight Committee
S Annual independent audits
^ ALL funds will support Fremont public schools
S NO funds can be used for administrator salaries
or pensions

Yes on I expires in 9 years. Currently exempt seniors who
are 65 and over will continue to be exempt. Seniors who
do not have a current exemption, but qualify, may apply.
Join the Fremont Board of Education, civic and business
leaders, students, educators and school staff, parents and
residents throughout Fremont VOTE - YES ON I!

www.supportfremontschools.com

REBUTTALTO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
MEASURE I

Measure I is an attempt to renew Measure K. Measure K
is $53 for 5 years. Measure I is in fact $73 for 9 years. An
increase in both dollars and years has been made.

While Measure K and the new Measure I promise much,
Fremont Unified School District (FUSD) has consistently
failed to deliver. Please go to FUSD’s website, www.
fremont.kl2.ca.us. and search for the 2015-16 Measure
K Parcel Tax Financial Report, ft is dated 1/20/2016.
FUSD does not need Measure K or Measure I money to
pay for Library Technicians, Librarians, and Elementary
Computer Prep Teachers. That’s all Measure K has been
doing - shifting routine and normal costs.

Measure I would not provide additional benefits for
Fremont students.

FUSD pays teachers by seniority and education degrees.
Job Performance or “quality” has nothing to do with
anything. Some teachers try hard. Others are ineffective.
This is FUSD education reality.

In fact, FUSD needs to improve math (and music...)
education. Not maintain it. The current Common Core
math pathways have seen intense debates. For months,
many students and parents have attended School Board
meetings asking for positive changes. So far, nothing
effective has been done.

The so called “Independent” Oversight Committee is not
really independent. All members are appointed by the
School Board. People who are known to have second
opinions would not be appointed.

Thank you very much for reading true and honest comments
from a regular person. Measure I has no meaningful reality
behind it. Please vote no.

s/HIU NG
Fremont Resident

Thank you,

s/BILL HARRISON
Mayor

s/ANUNATARAJAN
Chair, FUSD Bond Oversight Committee
s/DIRK LORENZ
Local Businessman and Taxpayer Advocate
s/SHEREA WESTRA
President, Fremont Unified District Teachers
Association
s/LILY MEI
Vice Mayor, Fremont

FRMl-2

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE I

Fremont Unified School District (FUSD) has plenty of
money. According to its 2015-2016 Second Interim Budget
Report, it is expecting a General Fund total revenue of
$336.7 million and an ending balance of $41.4 million this
school year - 3/9/16 FUSD School Board meeting agenda
item #14.4.

Measure I was approved at the same 3/9/2016 School
Board meetingas agenda item #14.3. In other words, FUSD
School Board has decided to ask the people of Fremont
to pay more property tax even before it has reviewed its
own most recent financial numbers. FUSD clearly fails to
explain why the current level of state/federal funding is
insufficient.

On 6/3/14, Fremont voters has already generously
approved Measure E - a $650 million school facilities
bond. Ultimately, the entire Fremont community would
pay more than $1 billion in property tax for its principal
and interest Series B of Measure E, $129,715 million, will
be available to FUSD on 3/24/16 - 3/9/2016 School Board
meeting Consent Calendar item #11.3. FUSD also has
plenty of money outside of its General Fund for its school
facilities need.

Also, FUSD has been making many false benefit claims
without ever mentioning how much money would be used
specifically for what student benefits. FUSD did a voter
survey and simply mentioned everything highly supported
by Fremont voters. That’s all. By contrast, in 2013, all
FUSD employees including all administrators received
an one-time 4% (relative to their salaries) payment and
a 2% salary raise retroactive back to 2012. In 2014, ail
employees received a 5.9% salary increase. In 2015, the
salary increase is 5%. There is another salary negotiation
underway this year for the 4th consecutive year. Measure 1
money would be used to mostly offset routine and normal
FUSD expenses.

Please reject. Draw a line. For the kids.

s/HIUNG
Fremont Resident

REBUTTALTO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE I

Don’t be misled! ALL Measure I funds must be spent only
on preserving math, science, reading and writing programs
for our students. KNOW THE FACTS:

FACT: State school funding is unpredictable. California
still ranks as one of the lowest in the nation in per pupil
funding.

FACT: All Measure I funds are legally required to be
spent only on Fremont’s excellent education programs

that can’t be taken by Sacramento politicians.

FACT: Since 2008, Fremont Unified has lost more than
$90 MILLION dollars in education funding from the state.
Without renewing local funding for our schools we may
face cuts that will threaten the quality of education our
students receive. YES on I maintains stable local funding
for our schools, ensuring quality school programs.

FACT: Every Independent Citizen Oversight Committee
has confirmed that all funds are being spent as voters
intended - educating our children.

FACT: xMeasure I includes tough taxpayer protections/
guarantees:

•	Citizens Oversight Committee

•	Annua! published financial audits

•	Expiration after nine years

•	NO funds used for administrator salaries /
pensions.

Measure I is essential to attracting and retaining highly
qualified teachers for 21st Century education.

Thank you Fremont, for your continued
support of our schools.

VoteHSMI!

www.supportfremontschools.com

s/LESLIE GUPTA
Chair, Measure K Oversight Committee
s/BERNARD L. STEWART
Washington Hospital Board of Director

s/CRAIG T. STECKLER
Fremont Police Department Chief, Retired

s/LINDA WASSERMAN
Senior Civic Leader
s/YANG SHAO
Trustee, Fremont Board of Education

FRMI-3

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE I

FREMONT UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
Quality Education and Local Control Funding
Measure I
INTRODUCTION AND PURPOSE

To continue funding for core programs in math, science
and reading, provide local reliable funding for local schools
that cannot be taken by the State, attract and retain highly-
qualified teachers including quality science teachers,
maintain math, science, reading and writing programs, keep
school libraries open, relieve overcrowding in classrooms,
maintain programs to prepare students for the workforce,
and protect student safety and security, with no proceeds
used for administrators' salaries, benefits and pensions, the
Fremont Unified School District ("District") proposes to
renew and extend its expiring voter approved education
and local control parcel tax for a period of nine years from
starting date of July 1, 2016 at a rate of $73 per parcel per
year (the existing Measure K which expires on December
10, 2016 shall be replaced by this Measure starting July 1,
2016), with an exemption available for senior citizens and
certain disabled persons, and to implement accountability
measures, including citizen oversight, to ensure the funds
are used to help:

♦	Attract and retain highly-qualified teachers
including quality science teachers;

♦	Protect quality academic instruction in core
subjects like math, science, reading and writing;

♦	Relieve overcrowding in classrooms;

*	Keep school libraries open;

*	Maintain programs to prepare students for the
workforce; and

•	Protect student safety and security.

The proceeds of the parcel tax shall be deposited into a
separate account created by the District.

DEFINITION OF "PARCEL"

For purposes of the high quality education parcel tax,
the term "Parcel" means any parcel of land which lies
wholly or partially within the boundaries of the Fremont
Unified School District, that receives a separate tax bill
for ad valorem property taxes from the Alameda County
Assessor/Tax Collector, as applicable. All property that
is otherwise exempt from or upon which are levied no ad
valorem property taxes in any year shall also be exempt
from the education and local control parcel tax in such
year.

For purposes of this education and local control parcel
tax, any such "Parcels" which are (i) contiguous, and (ii)
used solely for owner-occupied, single-family residential
purposes, and (iii) held under identical ownership may,
by submitting to the District an application of the owners
thereof by June 15 of any year, be treated as a single "parcel"
for purposes of the levy of the high quality education and
local control parcel tax.

EXEMPTION FOR SENIORS AND SSI RECIPIENTS

Pursuant to California Government Code Section

50079 (b)(1), any owner of a Parcel used solely for owner-
occupied, single-family residential purposes and who are
either (a) 65 years of age or older on or before June 30 of
the fiscal year immediately preceding the year in which
the tax would apply, or (b) persons receiving Supplemental
Security Income for a disability, regardless of age, or (c)
receiving Social Security Disability Insurance benefits,
regardless of age, whose yearly income does not exceed
250 percent of the 2012 federal poverty guidelines issued
by the United States Department of Health and Human
Services, may obtain an exemption from the parcel tax
by submitting an application therefore, by June 15 of any
year, to the District.

Persons who are owners of Parcels used solely for
owner-occupied, single-family residential purposes and
currently exempted from the District’s expiring Measure
K parcel tax shall automatically be exempted from this
Measure without having to file a new application.

The District may establish administrative procedures
to periodically verify the continuance of any previously
granted exemption.

With respect to all general property tax matters within
its jurisdiction, the Alameda County Treasurer and Tax
Collector or other appropriate county tax officials, shall
make ail final determinations of tax exemption or relief for
any reason, and that decision shall be final and binding.
With respect to matters specific to the levy of the high
quality education and local control parcel tax, including
any exemptions and the classification of property for
purposes of calculating the tax, the decisions of the District
shall be final and binding.

REDUCTION IN TAX IF RESULT IS LESS OTHER
GOVERNMENT SUPPORT

The collection of the education and local control parcel
tax is not intended to decrease or offset any increase in
local, state or federal government revenue sources that
would otherwise be available to the District during the
period of the parcel tax. In the event that the levy and
collection does have such an effect, the District may cease
the levy or shall reduce the parcel tax to the extent that
such action would restore the amount of the decrease or
offset in other revenues.

ACCOUNTABILITY MEASURES

In accordance with the requirements of California
Government Code Sections 50075.1 and 50075.3, the
following accountability measures, among others, shall
apply to the parcel tax levied in accordance with this
Measure: (a) the specific purposes of the parcel tax shall
be those purposes identified above; (b) the proceeds of the
parcel tax shall be applied only to those specific purposes
identified above; (c) a separate, special account shall be
created into which the proceeds of the education and local
control parcel tax must be deposited; and (d) an annual
written report shall be made to the Board of Education of
the District showing (i) the amount of funds collected and
expended from the proceeds of the high quality education
and local control parcel tax and (ii) the status of any
projects or programs required or authorized to be funded

FRMI‘4

from the proceeds of the parcel tax, as identified above. In
addition to the accountability measures required by law,
the District will maintain its existing Citizens' Oversight
Committee to provide oversight as to the expenditure of
parcel tax revenues.

FRMi-5