From Contra Costa Elections Division Website

Measure M
City of Richmond

Measure Wording

Shall the Ordinance to amend the City of Richmond’s Municipal Code to increase the City’s
Real Estate Documentary Transfer Tax from .7% to 1% and 1.5%, based on the property’s sale
price, be adopted?

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE M
Current Law

Under the Richmond Municipal Code, there is a tax (“Transfer Tax”) on all real property
transfers by deeds or any other document, for properties located in the City of Richmond, which
are granted or otherwise conveyed to a purchaser. The Transfer Tax is currently levied at the rate
of .7% of the property’s sale price.

Measure M

Measure M has been placed on the ballot by the Richmond City Council. Measure M would
make the following changes to the Richmond Municipal Code:

Measure M would raise the Transfer Tax rate to 1% of the property’s sale price on transfers of
property sold for an amount less than $400,000.

Measure M would also raise the Transfer Tax rate to 1.5% of the property’s sale price on
transfers of property sold for an amount equal to or greater than $400,000.

THE ABOVE STATEMENT IS AN IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE M. IF YOU
DESIRE A COPY OF THE INITIATIVE, PLEASE CALL THE RICHMOND CITY CLERK’S
OFFICE AT 510-620-6513 AND A COPY WILL BE MAILED AT NO COST TO YOU.

Financial Analysis of Measure M

Finance Director’s Statement on the fiscal impact of Measure M:

If the proposed ordinance is approved by the voters, in my opinion, it would generate additional
tax revenue for the City that can be used for any public purpose. The ordinance would increase
the property transfer tax rate on transactions of properties with sale prices between zero and
$399,999.99 from 0.7% to 1%, and the rate on transactions of properties with sale prices
$400,000 and above from 0.7% to 1.5%.

Based on the actual pattern of transactions and revenues received by the City through the
property transfer tax, had the proposed ordinance been in place during the period from fiscal year
2009-2010 through fiscal year 2015-2016, it would have resulted in additional annual revenue
ranging from $2.6 million to $5.6 million. An average amount of $3.6 million annually would
have been generated during that period.

While we estimate that the proposed ordinance would have resulted in average additional
revenue of $3.6 million per year in the recent past, it is important to note that this is the City’s
most volatile revenue source. Estimates based on prior years’ activity may not be predictive of
future revenues.

Belinda Warner
Finance Director
City of Richmond

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE M
None Filed.

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE M

The Contra Costa Taxpayers Association strongly opposes this tax proposal.

What service does the City of Richmond provide the County Clerk-Recorder, who is responsible
for real estate document recording? NONE

What recording service does the City of Richmond provide the parties in a transfer of real
property? NONE

What preparation of recordable documents does Richmond do in a real estate transaction? NONE

It is customary for local governments to charge a reasonable fee for services rendered, but this is
a proposed tax for NO services.

Richmond doesn’t have a revenue problem; it has a spending problem. The people of Richmond
have a nation-wide reputation as hard workers - the legacy of “Rosie the Riveter.” But,
Richmond’s politicians routinely find ways to waste hard-earned taxpayer money, like paying to
send a sex worker involved in a recent police scandal to Florida, for “rehabilitation.”

Richmond officials need to honor what Richmond families and businesses do, and learn to live
within their means.

Contra Costa Taxpayers urges you to VOTE NO on this money grab.

Contra Costa County Taxpayers Association,

Jack Weir, President