(http://lakecountygrowers.org/)

30

to

Measure C

AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING A CANNABIS CULTIVATION TAX
IN THE UNINCORPORATED AREAS OF THE COUNTY OF LAKE
ORDINANCE NO. 3047

WHEREAS, on September 11,2015, the Medical Marijuana Regulation and Safety Act, which
consists of three separate bills, was enacted; andWHEREAS, the Medical Marijuana Regulation
and Safety Act (hereinafter, the “Act”) creates a comprehensive state licensing system for the
commercial cultivation, manufacture, retail sale, transport, distribution, delivery, and testing of
medical cannabis; and

WHEREAS, the Act authorizes a county to impose a tax on the privilege of engaging in those
activities therein enumerated relating to medical cannabis, which authorization is codified in
Business and Professions Code section 19348; and

WHEREAS, Business and Professions Code section 19348 includes among those activities which
are subject to said tax, the cultivation of medical cannabis; and

WHEREAS, funding must be increased to address impacts to the County and its residents related
to medical cannabis cultivation in Lake County, which impacts affect law enforcement
resources, environmental protection resources, and water quality protection resources; and

WHEREAS, additional funding will further allow the County to develop and maintain necessary
educational services for the children of the County to educate them in regard to the negative
impacts of drug and alcohol use; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Supervisors wishes to impose such a license tax on medical cannabis
cultivation occurring in the unincorporated areas of the County of Lake in order to provide such
funding; and

WHEREAS, revenues collected on a tax imposed pursuant to Revenue and Taxation Code section
7284 may be reserved for specific or general local purposes as determined by the Board of
Supervisors; and

WHEREAS, in regard to the imposition of a tax on the cultivation of medical cannabis and/or
upon any of the activities enumerated in Business and Professions Code section 19348, that
code section authorizes a county board of supervisors to determine whether to impose said tax
on individually, collectively, or cooperatively, and regardless of whether the activity is for
compensation or gratuitous; and

WHEREAS, Business and Professions Code section 19348 requires that the Board of Supervisors
specify in an ordinance proposing such a tax on those activities subject to the tax, the applicable
rate or rates, the method of apportionment, if necessary, and the manner of collection of the tax.

NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION ONE: Chapter 18 is hereby added to Article VI of the Lake County Code to read as
follows:

“Sec. 18-45 Title

This Chapter shall be known as the Lake County Cannabis Cultivation Tax Ordinance.

Sec. 18-48 Purpose

The purpose of this ordinance is to impose a tax on cannabis cultivation operations which occur
in the unincorporated areas of the County of Lake in order to raise additional revenue to help
fund law enforcement, environmental protection, and water quality resources in the County as

well as to establish additional educational programs for County youth relating to drug and
alcohol use.

Sec. 18-49 Definitions

49.1	“Cultivation” means the germinating, cloning, seed production, planting, growing, and
harvesting of cannabis plants and the on-site drying, curing, grading, or trimming of cannabis
plants.

49.2	“Person” means an individual, firm, partnership, joint venture, association, corporation,
limited liability company, estate, trust, cooperative, collective, syndicate or any other group of
combination acting as a unit and includes the plural as well as the singular number.

49.3	“Cultivation site” means the sum of the area(s) of cannabis cultivation as measured
around the perimeter of each discrete area of cannabis cultivation on a single premises, as
defined herein.

49.4	“Legally-Authorized Cannabis Cultivation” means cannabis cultivation performed in
compliance with local and state laws and regulations.

49.5	“Personal Use” means cultivation of medical cannabis under one of the following two
conditions:

a.	Cultivation of medical cannabis by an individual in an area which does not exceed 100 square
feet if cultivated for his/her personal use and which is not sold, distributed, donated, or provided
to any other person or entity; or

b.	Cultivation of medical cannabis by a primary caregiver if the cultivation site does not exceed
500 square feet and he/she cultivates cannabis exclusively for the personal use of no more than
five (5) specified qualified patients for whom he/she is the primary caregiver.

49.6	“Outdoor Cultivation” means the cultivation of cannabis using no artificial light of any
kind.

49.7	“Indoor Cultivation” means the cultivation of cannabis in permanent structures using
exclusively artificial light sources.

49.8	“Mixed Light Cultivation” means the cultivation of cannabis which involves the use of a
combination of natural and supplemental artificial lighting at a maximum threshold as
determined by the Department of Food and Agriculture.

49.9	“Premises” means a legal parcel compliant with the Subdivision Map Act, or leasehold
interest in agricultural land for agricultural purposes of outdoor, mixed-light, or indoor
cultivation or processing of cannabis, or leased or owned space in an industrial or commercial
building for purposes of indoor cultivation, processing, manufacture or distribution of cannabis.

Sec. 18-50 Activities Su bject to the Tax

Except as otherwise exempted herein, all legally authorized cannabis cultivation which occurs in
the unincorporated areas of the County of Lake is subject to the imposition of the Lake County
Cannabis Cultivation Operations Tax. The imposition of said tax is in addition to any permitting
or other requirements imposed by the Lake County Code.

Sec. 18-51 Tax Rate Imposed

In addition to any requirements imposed by Chapter 21 of the Lake County Code, each person
engaged in legally-authorized cannabis cultivation within the unincorporated area of Lake
County shall pay an annual tax of $1 per square foot of an outdoor cultivation site, $2 per square
foot of a mixed-light cultivation site, and/or $3 per square foot of an indoor cultivation site,
subject to annual Consumer Price Index increases as provided in Section 18-53 herein.

Sec. 18-52 Tax Exemption

No tax shall be imposed for medical cannabis cultivated strictly for personal use as defined
herein.

Sec. 18-53 Annual CPI Increase

The tax imposed by this Chapter shall be adjusted on July 1,2017, and on the first of July of each
succeeding year based on the Consumer Price Index (“CPI”) for all urban consumers in the San
Francisco-Oakland-San Jose areas as published by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. No
adjustment shall decrease the taxes imposed by this chapter.

Sec. 18-54 Manner of Collection

The tax imposed by this Chapter shall be collected by the Lake County Treasurer-Tax Collector
biannually in the same manner as other taxes fixed and collected by the County of Lake. For
purposes of this Chapter, taxes shall begin to accrue on the date on which a person becomes
engaged in legally-authorized cannabis cultivation in accordance with the applicable provisions
of the Lake County Code and all other applicable state and federal laws and regulations.

Sec. 18-55 Penalties

Any person who fails to pay the tax required by this Chapter within thirty (30) days after the due
date shall pay, in addition to the tax, a penalty for nonpayment in a sum equal to twenty-five
percent (25%) of the total amount due. Receipt of the tax payment by the Lake County
Treasurer-Tax Collector’s Office shall govern the determination of whether the tax is delinquent.
Postmarks will not be accepted as adequate proof of a timely payment.

Sec. 18-56 Implementation Subsequent to Vote

Upon approval of the Ordinance enacting this Chapter by a majority of the voters, the County
may take such actions necessary for the implementation and administration of the provisions of
this Chapter. Such actions shall include, but shall not be limited to:

56.1	Adoption of Policies and Regulations. The County may adopt those policies and regulations
determined by the Board of Supervisors to be necessary for said implementation and
administration.

56.2	Modification, Repeal, or Amendment. The Lake County Board of Supervisors may repeal
this Chapter, or amend it in a manner which does not result in an increase in the amount of tax
or broaden the scope of the tax imposed herein without further voter approval. If the Board of
Supervisors repeals any provision of this Chapter, it may subsequently re-enact it without voter
approval, as long as the re-enacted provision does not result in an increase in the amount of the
tax or broaden the scope of said tax. Voter approval would be required for any amendment
provision that would increase the rate of tax imposed pursuant to this Chapter.

56.3	Examination of Records. The administration of the provisions of this Chapter shall include,
but shall not be limited to, the authority of the County to examine the books and records,
including tax returns, of any person subject to the provisions of this Chapter. Any such
examination shall occur at a reasonable and upon reasonable advance notice thereof.

Sec. 18-57 Application of Provisions - Change in Law

In the event that the cultivation of cannabis for recreational use is legalized or decriminalized in
the State of California, the provisions of this Chapter shall apply, without subsequent voter
approval, to each person cultivating cannabis for such purposes in accordance with the
applicable provisions of the County Code and all applicable state and federal laws. No
amendment or modification of this Chapter shall be required to conform the tax to said changes
and the tax shall be imposed and collected to the full extent authorized pursuant to this Chapter.

Sec. 18-58 Payment of Tax Does Not Authorize Unlawful Business

The payment of the tax imposed pursuant to this Chapter, and its acceptance by the County,
shall not entitle any person to carry on medical cannabis cultivation unless the person has
complied with all applicable requirements of the Lake County Code and all other applicable
laws. No tax paid under the provisions of this Chapter shall be construed as authorizing the
conduct or continuance of any illegal or unlawful cultivation in violation of any County
ordinance.

Sec. 18-59 Severability

If any provision of this Chapter or the application thereof to any person or circumstance is held
invalid, the remainder of this Chapter and the application of such provision to other persons or
circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

Sec. 18-60 Operative Date

In the event the Ordinance enacting this Chapter is approved by a majority vote of the voters at
the election on November 8,2016, it shall become effective on January 1,2017. However, no tax
shall be imposed or collected by the County until so authorized by state law.”

SECTION TWO:	Election.	An	election	on the issue of imposing a Medical Cannabis Cultivation

Tax shall be held together with the statewide general election on November 8,2016.

SECTION THREE:	The	purpose	of the Ordinance enacting this Chapter is to impose a general

tax to establish a government funding mechanism for those purposes described therein, but the
County is not committing to any specific course of action with regard to the tax revenue
generated hereunder. Therefore, this Chapter is not a “project” subject to the requirements of
the California Environmental Quality Act (“CEQA”) as defined in section 15378, subdivision (b).

SECTION FOUR:	Within	fifteen	days	of	the	passage	of	the	ordinance enacting this Chapter, the

Clerk of the Board of Supervisors shall publish a summary of this ordinance at least once in a
newspaper of general circulation printed and published in the County of Lake.

The Foregoing Ordinance was introduced before the Board of Supervisors on the 2nd day of
August, 2016, and passed by the following vote on the 9th day of August, 2016.

AYES: Supervisors Smith, Steele and Farrington

NOES: Supervisor Brown

ABSENT OR NOT VOTING: Supervisor Comstock

GET NEWS AND ALERTS

First Name

Last Name

Email:

Your email address

SIGN UP

Lake County Growers Association, Inc. (http://lakecountygrowers.org) | © 2016-2017 All Rights
Reserved.