PROPOSITION 59

Yne	CORPORATIONS.

1	POLITICAL.

KU SPENDING. FEDERAL
CONSTITUTIONAL

PROTECTIONS.
LEGISLATIVE
ADVISORY
QUESTION.

A'*-; wlmlher California's elected officials
i should use their aulhonty lo propose and ratify
i an amendment lo the federal Constitution
I overturning lire United Slates Supreme Court
I decision in Citizens United v. Federal Election
■ Commission Citizens United ruled that laws
plating certain limiis on polilicul spending by
corporations and unions are unconstitutional
i I'iscal Impact: No direct fetal effect on slain or
< local governments

Shull California's elected officials use all ol Ihtnr
constitutional authority, including, but not
limited lo. proposing and ratifying one or more
amendments lo the United Slates Constitution,
to overturn Citizens United v, Federal Election
Commission 12010) 55fi U S. 310. and other
applicable judicial precedents to allow the tell
I imjnlnlion or limitation of campaign
j rreitrihutais and spending, to ensure that all
, '.limns, regardless ol wealth, may express
: then views lo one anolhur. and lo make clear
! ihiit corporations should not have tee same
; constitutional rights ns tiuman bemos?

PROPOSITION 60

Ync	ADULT FILMS.

M>&	CONDOMS. HEALTH

K.	REQUIREMENTS.

INITIATIVE STATUTE.

Requires adult film
performers to use
condoms during filming
ni sexual intercourse Requires producers to
nny tor performer vaccinations, testing, and
medical examinations Requires producers lo
oust condom requirement at film sites. Fiscal
Impact. Likely reduction ol state and local lax
revenues of several million dollars annually.
Increased slate spending that could exceed $1
million annually on regulation, partially offset by
now foes

I CONTINUE VOTING IN NEXT COLUMN

_____I\

Cl

"V

PROPOSITION 64

Yp<;	MARIJUANA

' *	LEGALIZATION.

M	INITIATIVE STATU IE.

1Leqall/es marijuana

under state law. for use

by niJulls 21 or older
imuoses slate laxes on
sales and cultlvallon. Provides fur Industry
licensing and establishes slntmnrds for
marijuana prndupis. Allows local regulation
and luxation Fiscal Impact Additional lax
revenues ranging hum high hundreds of
millions nl (iullars lo over $1 hillion annually,
mostly dedicated to specihi; purposes.
Reduced criminal justice rxtsts of lens of
millions nl dollars annually

PROPOSITION 65

Ypc	CARRYOUT BAGS.

CHARGES.

M	INITIATIVE ST ATUTE,

ivy	Redirects money

collected by grocery and
certain other retail
stores iluough
mandalod sale ol carryout bags Requirea
stores lo deposit ban sale proceeds inly a
special fund lo support S|>ocified enviionmenlnl
projects Fiscal Impact' Potential slate
revenue ol several Inns ol millinns ol dollars
annually under curtain ciruumstences, with |ji<>
monies used lo support certain environmental
programs

PROPOSITION 66

COUNTY OF STANISLAUS ■ 50

Y„,j	DEATH PENALTY

PROCEDURES.

N	INITIATIVE STATUTE

,N’	Changes procedures

governing stole court
challenges to death
sentences Designates
supeiior court ter initial peldions and' limits
successive pelillons Requires appointed
aitomoys who lake noncapital appeals lo
accepl death penally appeals Exempts prison
officials hem existing regulation process lor
developing execution methods. Fiscal Impad
Unknown ongoing impact on stele court costs
to' processing legal challenges to death
sentences Potential prison savings in Ihp urns
ol millions nf (loiters annually

CONTINUE VOTING IN NEXT COLUMN

RACK N O ! 111 /. J ,1.111.,"!;

TURLOCK UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT

MEASURE 0

Bonds-Yea
Bonds No

Unified School Distort

In upgrade mid
repair nigh schools
yvi! h litr.fif hmdinii
llwl i.ianiioi lie
iaken liy llii! Slate,
shrill Turtoek
provide science.

locImoltiyy/eiKilfmoring intus, provide new
dassroonisdnslniciionnl lechnnioriy. Iintlmltey
necessary infrastructure. for ewe sirttirlemitts;
modmiiije lacililias to meet her illli/sufBly
codes. Improve campus salety/secunly:
repair, construct. aconire, oquip, classrooms
silos, (mtilitios. by Issuing Mfl.000,000 ol
bonds at loyal rales;, willi Independent ciltan
oversiuhl. no money lor ridminislrntors. nor! all
lumte used for Turks;!* Schools?

7

COUNTY

MEASURE L

Yes	I’nivrde	funding	tor	j

local (rangpotlalion
>1	improvements

110	including. (ferny

liollinlos/maimiiining i
slrnels.	Improving	|

rsnriiunni y rosprnrsn; | inivkliny stiff? mules IS |
schools:	providing	senior,	veterans anti	i

rilnfiliteil	Shuitlu services. and imrnuvinii	i

snlolyrTodiicinu IrnlBc congestion on liiuliwfiy I
OT/major streets: shall Ihe Sianmlnns Ctornty
Transport,'lifon Auibuiily ennui a '<cent sates
la*, (innerfiling $.)!'.000 1)00 annually for
Iranspwffllion pioieels. funds that rantidl t>>>
taken by Iho Slate, reriuirlnd all money to Ini
spent in	Stanislaus	wnuiiy	with citterns

oversight lor 25 years?

END OF BALLOT

’ HR ! TypT.M f?w*| 0023 Dpt 01

MSSUMESFT m mim Or MEASURE L

Are you tires s? arming over asfootes and bao roads Use we are?

Tns hiovamoer. tiers is -ons vote you -can be prone e cast YES on Measure
L tor Deter roads; sate stress ami a granger iacai economy it Stanislaus
County.

Measure I is e detaiec Transportation plan m rapar oar reads. reduce traffic
congestion and improve safety on teas stress and highways.

YES on Measure l is '00% dedicated a improving tire ouaiity of life for
Stanislaus County residents am? businesses.

Measure L wl create good jobs and grow our ioca: economy by providing
over St Biiitor dollars of economic and infrastructure investment

This pian will:

•	Fir. Eca! roads and ff potholes m every community

•	Reduce traffic conoestipr. on Highway 93

•	Symcnronse rsffic signals on tnaia' krees

•	improve manway safety ano fix dangerous infe'seettots

•	Provioe point e poim shuttle service for seniors and assarted
persons

•	improve emergency response times for sheriff, poire- and fire first
.responaers

» Make Stansaaus eligible for millions in sate and feoerai matching
funds to tix our iocs! roads and highways

•	Create safe* routes te schools through Pike and pedestrian safety
improvements.

Measure L includes strong accountability measures, fe requires an
maependent citizens' ovsrsrgnt committee and annual financial and
performance audits so government car t gat in foe way. Every penny raised
by Measure L stays in Stanislaus County to improve tea-' transportation. The
Stas cast touch it

ARGUMENTS A FAVOR 0£ LA MEGIM L

cEsti m cansadc corns spasms de conduct- boss haems y cafes or, ml
SS33D'

Este mmsmbra. hay tm mts as: me posse estsr orguBoso as mtSr. 3: pars
Is MsSste L do: mejorss cafes, cafes mas seguras y ana sconorms iocs:
mas fasne sr- a? Candace- ds Stanislaus.

La Mssisa L as tm olan ds transport? deia/tado pan reparar nuestras
cafes, redact tss congsstiones viales y msjorar is ssguridad an las cafes y
carretsras tocaies

8 SI pars Is Medids L ess '00% dedicado a rnsjasr is caltasc as vidz ds
las rssidamss v rngodos del Doodads ds Stanislaus.

La Medics L areas buenos empisos y hard crsce- nisesse economk boa! a:
pimorsianar mas ds Si mil mihonas os dotares an inventories economicas
>• as infraestruciura.

Este oiar,:

•	Reparad ias cafes locales y refenad caches en todzs las
comumdadss

» Reducsra la congestion vial an ia Amopista 99

» Sincronizars las senates ds bansito en las cafes printipaJes

•	Matorad ia segundad ds ias carreteras y reparad ias
interssedones peiigrosas

•	Pwporcbnad un semao da transports oe un purm a otro para
personas mayoress’ discasacitadas

•	Mejorara los tiempos ds respussis cs los seniaos os emergence
del aiguacil. ia ponds y tos bomberos

« Logram qua Shamsms sss sbgihis para reebir milbnes en
iondos comoismsntanos federates y ssta&es para repara:
nuestras cafes y carrstsras tocaies

•	OorstpJra rutas mas ssgurzs. mas fes escusias cor, majoras en
ia ssguridad pars ias oicbietas y tos psatones

Ever? city in Stanislaus County votes to support Measure l because local
road repairs uenefti everyone - drivers, cyclists. walkers, seniors, kids and
businesses,

Taxpayer advocates, seniors, educators, farmers, business groups,
Republicans, Democrats and neighborhood leaders throughout our county
ail agree: vote YES on Measure L

For maps of the Measure t improvement protects in your area please visit
www.MeasureL-Ves.com.

1st Jim DeMartini - Stanislaus County Supervisor

id Adam Christianson - Stanislaus County Sheriff

/si Mickey C. Peabody - Senior Senator, California Senior Legislature

/s/ William Ft, “Bill" Jackson - Oakdale Rancher

Is/ Maria H. Silveira - Board Member, Portuguese Education Foundation

La Madias L todays tueriss metbdasde rendtemde comas. Regueirs un
combs de suaenrisidn ciusadam y de audmrias de dessmpeno v fmancieras
amistes. para one el gooiamo no pueda Meqmerse. Cada cemavo ganado
per ia Memda L permanece en si Candace ds Stanislaus para msjorar el
transports beat. Ei Estado no puede tocario.

Todas las ciudades en ei Condado ds Stanislaus votaron a favor de ia Madias
L porque ias reparaciones de ias calles benefictan a iodos - conductores.
adistas. peatones, personas mayvres. nifiosy negocios.

Los defensores de contribuysnies, personas mayores, educadores.
agriculiores, grupos empresariaies, Republicanos, Damocratas y lideres
vednaies a ia largo de nuestro condado estan todas de acuerdo: vote Sipam
ia Medida L.

ParaconsuttarmapasdelosproyectosdemejoradeiaMedidaLensuzons.vistte
wwwMeasureL-Yes.com.

.4/ Jim DeMariini - Supervisor del Condado de Stanislaus
4/Adam Christianson - Aiguacii ds! Condado as Stanislaus
4/ Mickey C, Peabody - Senador para Personas Mayores. Legislators pars
Personas Mayores de California (Caiifomta Senior Legislates}

41 William R."SiH" Jackson - Ganadem ae Oakdale

Maria H. Silveira - Miembm de is Junta. Funbactor. pars t£ Education
Poriuguesa (Portuguese Education Foundation)

Asauwerr asmssr measure l

. aor;': iisiac saying my lar snare of taxes. mwsvsi. I -essnt Seme gsteo t:
pay ore half percent extra an every purchase :n the res 20 years a fond a
welfare anagram to- crrsan anti ressenta! developers.

Asupssmial aKtfon a: runas catieaeo vsali he spent m expressway and road
sheening ofoeds to insuce uroan growth. Such projects snsuid be paid lor
wilt Capita- racOife? ?ses salecteti Iron new uroar growth Why shouffi
you and i aod to developer profits every time we buv sometftmo?

Sirjse 20DD, toe numoer of valley commuters to the Bay Area tes doubled
Do you want mare expressways so that more folks wi commute from many
new susdirtstors mM ateng new expressways? How vM you benefit'

if this proposal only fixed roads. 1 would support it But this sort: same; ta>
gives average cteens tithe benefit.

Your etectati leaders tee funds to suM two six tare expressways in ro.tr
Moaesia. but couldn't afford to repave existing streets’7 Do ire expressways
benefit yac or haroebpiiders’

! served on the Modesto City Gourcfi from 1999-2001 Before eteaion.:
saw developers influence elected leaders who granted immense subsidies.
I spent my entire four years on the Council working to identify and eliminate
gifts of wise funds..

Lfota-'tunareiy toss same interest group lobbies for many proposed
expenditures in Measure I

Studies wars dons at taxpayer expense eDout conwrcmg votes is say yes
Don't b& manipulated into making me wrong choice.

!f you ignore my warning anti approve tms. you wiif pay for 20 years. Once
ft passes, you can’t stop ft

Please say “no* to Measure L Demand Defter.

/S' Bruce ft. Frohman. Citizen Advocate

Assmam &s count*, de la smsm l

Mo me msorts sags: m sefe souMirs ss tmsissm. Sir. emmgs, m
rnwssB ms ms ptesn ous sagos ura mmcpn- emte sxss m cate comars
OiKsms m amomos 20 sros pars fmamser or. programs as ateassm? pare
mdssam&etorss ressmemies y udmnos

Dm panada sustama: as las rondos rexsisc&aos ss gsssare sr proyscEs
as sasanctwrmm:- os ssttss y mamas para mdosk ei creemem urbane.
Dianas praysem ss debsrm pagar am ms J&itas oe Caosai oe tnstataciones
recoisciadss. <m nuevo mernnem mama. (.Par ms detresismos ustsd y
yo mmsniar las gamneies as ios ossarroUado-ss cade ves sue corrwramos
algo?

Desde si 2900 el mmo de personas oei vaiie ms vsajsn darmieate nasie
ei Area de la Balm ss ns duphcadc. pOme-s mas aoiemas para one mas
personas men diar&mm Paste ranches nuevss sussmmnss construtdss
eio large-osfes trjsvas aunmas? .Came ss vsri ttstesPsneftciagcD

& ess pmaussza sosametm amegtsa caiiss. la atooysns. Pm me imaussz-
de imU de seeds is otom pesos Peasfoas a> cmasmo medio.

:Sus stssres sisgidos tension kmaos ms construe das aatrafes as ssis
carries m el none os Modest:-, gem re sjdieron pager gam pevimsntar
ds noem las caiiss sxis-snies? pies aimmas io oensneran s mad oatos

mrtshirckms?

fo ometps sn g; Caresc os is Dmaad ds Modest:- ds 1993 a 2903 Antes
ds ta asccefo, to a desanvlmdorss mhusneiar & las iideres elegiacs are
aanoe$sm sussidbs inmensas. Psss mis amt ems entsras trabemdo
en & Comeio gam taanffissr y sBmmm las dddwes as foadas Kibhcos

Bssafonmsmmem e: misiw onago as imams amsmo p& rnuenas de ias
aaste propysssjs sn la Madfefe L

Ss rsaizsm esutmos a costs as m canmouysmss soars coma caiweacer e
los vpsnss pars m Sgan s> Afa ss deje manipular pars fomar is decision
incorrects..

Si osted ignore im aavefenaa y aoroete ests. pagans mx 2D anas. Uas vss
oue ss agmebs, no podte omenedo.

Par favor, digs ‘no* s is Usmm L. cxiis algo major.

/V Bruce /?. Frvhman, Defensor de! CiudBdano

Regional Projects. 28%. $26SM4.M{t

These funds would be used for planning, project development. right-of-way. and-or construction of
major corridor, capital projects. Proposed regional proiects are at different stages of implementation.
The Plan includes a set of projects identified by a combination of public outreach, local agency-
priori ties and StanCOG Board direction based on its adopted 2035 Regional Transportation Plan.
Funds will be distributed for projects throughout the County with approximately S30.000.000 left in
reserve to accommodate future regional needs.

Project		Description	Total Budget	Funded thru Plan
SR-132  .V. ' ' .?*	SR-99 to			S74,25CU?\>0B
	Mo'	from SR-99 »		
		Gates Road. -		M.-'
North County		Design Right of	S239.000.000.00	S59~50.000.00
Corridor		W2v		
FaithHome		. 2.	~~ -OsfySk V -	mWjOMSO	- S17.925TXXLOO
	^ ~ %			
		CrOSMDg/Qjp		
		Closure		
SR 99	Bnggsmore	Reconstruct to S	SQ8.f>~R'4OO.0O	524.66R850.00
	Interchange	Lane imerchanee		f3OL~4O5O.0O
mm,.	Mitchdl	"Tr u tiiir iiiiint "1.... • -	S12W?,4OD.O0	
	Sendee Road	Phase I '		
SR33		Highway and pedestrian safety improvements from Merced County line northward to Yolo	S 10.000.000.00	S2.500.000.00
		Avenue		
SR-99	Keyes Rd4o	Constmet Anfcifisb' ,^,y	- S6&26£00.00	: 51,24532000
	Taylor Rd	Lane V *	-Vf -*u?	" \
SR-99	Taylor Rd to	Construct Auxiliary	$6,520.3 00.00	SI 304.060.00
	Monte Vista Ave	Lane		
McBeaiy	Ladd Rd.fi>	Widen tc>5 Lanes- __	..Ji%025.Q00.0G	52,605,000.00.
	Hogue Rd	*/\ ;		
SR-99	West Main	Construct New Interchange	S19.091.000.00	S3.S18.200.tX)
ZaduumRd	Raines Rd to	1 Cons&uctBew	- 575.000.900	$7,500,000.00
	1-5	Interchange all-5		
SR-99	San Joaquin	Install Ramp	^ 1 w. / 5S._Tt.Hj.- .Hi	SI.5*5.830.00

County Line Metering
to Mitchell Re Improvements

including

Intelligent

Transportation

S\ stems * ITS >

$2,097,400.06

S209.740.00

SR-99

Mitchell Rd to
Merced

InstaSRamp

County Line

Improvements

mcluding

to

SR108-SR120	Oakdale,

County

Signal	Riverbank

Improvements -

SR99	SR-99	&

Standiford
Interchange

Systems. (ITS)

Intersection	S10.000.000.00

Improvements at

Rodeo

Reconstruct to 8	$78,943,500.00

Lane Interchange.

-	$1,070,230,400.00

SI.000,000.00
S420.100.00

$7,894,350.00

$228,414,425.00

Transit Providers

Other Transportation Programs and Services 7%

Point-To-Point Services For Seniors, Veterans And Persons With Disabilities S20,166,300

This is for specialized need-based door-through-door transportation sendees for seniors, veterans and
persons with disabilities. These funds will be allocated to the existing MOVE Program, essentially-
tripling capacity for need-based services for the County’s seniors, veterans and people with
disabilities.

Community Connections 120,166,300

Funds will be used for projects providing safer bicycle and pedestrian pathways in cities and the
unincorporated areas, increasing bus/van service and upgrading bus stops. Many community members
live in areas with limited public transit and/or bike connections to shopping, schools and work. Funds
from this category will be used to boost services in these areas making it easier for people to access
transit sendees and bike and pedestrian facilities.

Transit Services $15,444,200

Funds will be used for operations, maintenance and infrastructure improvements for public transit.
The}' may also be used to supplement local, state and federal funds for cost of transit sendee. These
funds will be allocated to public transit providers to support or enhance public transit sendee
throughout the region. This may include increasing frequency of sendee, identifying new routes and'or
investment in ride sharing sendees.

| Transit Category Estimated Funding Distribution

i	Percentage*	Over 25 Years	Annually
; Total Amount to Be Distributed	100%	513,444.200	5537,768
j Ceres	7%	5941,094	$37,644
| Modesto	52%	56,990,984	5279,639
j Stanislaus County	33%	54,436,586	5177,463
j Turlock	8%	51,075,536	$43,021
! Total	100%	513,444,200	S537,768

i	j

i	;

| "“Percentage is consistent with the StanCOG Transit Cost Sharing as discussed at the Transit j
| Managers meeting March 14, 2016	i

Rail Sendees 513,444,200

Funds will be used for operations, maintenance and infrastructure improvements for public transit
connections to existing rail sendees. They may be used to supplement local, state, and federal funds
for the cost of public transit connections to regional rail sendees including ACE, BART and Amtrak,
and marketing to increase awareness and ridership across all rail sendees.

StanCOG and the ACE management team believe there is a need to continue to promote ACE in
anticipation of future funding which may be allocated for the proposed extension. These may be used
to increase ridership and/or fund new AMTRAK service and increase bus/van connections to existing
ACE sendees to the Bay Area. No Funds will be used for high-speed rail.

Safeguards Built Into The Plan

This Expenditure Plan includes strong taxpayer safeguards to ensure that the projects and programs
approved by the voters are funded and delivered.

Citizen Oversight

.An Oversight Committee will be created to provide an enhanced level of accountability for
expenditures made under the Plan to ensure that all voter mandates are carried out and that the
financial integrity and performance of the program is maintained. The Committee will include one
representative from each municipal agency, selected by the agency.

Annual Independent Audit and Annual Reporting

Annua! fiscal and compliance audits will be conducted by a CPA. to assure that the revenues expended
are necessary and reasonable. The audits and annual Report must be published and made available to
the general public.

Sunset Date

This measure terminates in 25 years.

1% Administrative Expense Cap

Expenditures on staff salaries, wages, benefits and overhead necessary to administer the program will
be limited to no more than one percent of the annual gross revenues provided by the measure.

No revenue generated from this tax shall be used to replace fair share contribution from new
development

Revenues provided from this measure shall not be used to replace private developer funding that has
been or will be committed for any project to help alleviate the direct traffic impacts of any new or
redeveloped residential commercial or industrial development in Stanislaus County or its cities.

Eligibility Verification

The cities and County will select transportation projects that meet eligibility criteria as identified in
this Plan. The local jurisdictions will certify in the annual verification submitted to the Stanislaus
Council of Governments that these transportation funds were used for eligible expenses.

Maintaining Local Transportation Funding Efforts

The local jurisdictions wall certify in the annual verification submitted to Stanislaus Council of
Governments that these transportation funds will be used to augment and not supplant local resources
spent. For purposes of this calculation an average of the prior three (3) years spent for local
transportation purposes as defined in the Ordinance will be used.

Strategic Plan

StanCOG will prepare and adopt a Strategic Plan within twelve months of the sales tax taking effect.
The Strategic Plan will include project cost estimates, revenue estimates, other matching funds, and a
draft timeline for regional project delivery. Its prime purpose is to clarify program and project costs,
schedule, financial plans and project readiness to expedite project delivery and to allow projects that
are ‘ready' to proceed forward within the parameters of the Expenditure Plan.

For additional information about specific projects and programs in your area OR to ask
questions, please visit our website at:

www.Stanislaus-LocalRoadsFirst.com

36

La Section 180203(c) del Codigo de Servitios Publicos de California, deciara
que hay una obligation obligatoria para imprimir todo el texto del plan de gastos
en este Panfitefo de Muestra de Boleta

TEXTO COMPLETO DEL PLAN DE GASTOS DE LA MEDIDA L

Cornejo de Gobiernos de Stanislaus
Plan de Gastos

El financiamiento estatal y federal para el transports disminuyo severamente en los ultimas anas, v los fondos
que antes erart seguros cada vez son menos fiables. La juente principal de financiamiento del transporte, el
impuesto sobre la gasolina, no ha aumentado en 20 ahos v nuestros automoviles son ahora mas eficientes que
nunca en cuanto a combustible. Por lo tanto, los ingresos disponibles para operar, mantener v mejorar nuestro
sistema local de transporie no se han mantenido a la par de las necesidades de la comunidad. En la siguiente
decode, la poblacion del Condado de Stanislaus continuara creciendo y nuestra poblacion de personas mayores
casi se triplicat'd. Esto significa que, sin urt nuevo financiamiento, el Condado de Stanislaus tendra mayor
congestion vial, un mayor deterioro de las vlas v servicios de transporte mas escasos r mas caros.

Actualmente, el Area Metropolitan de Modesto se encuentra en el rtumero 20. de los peores caminos en los
Estados Unidos.

Es necesaria una nueva fuente confiable de financiamiento para el transporte para mantener nuestras
comunidades V la calidad de vida.

Se pidio a los electores del Condado de Stanislaus que aprobaran un impuesto a las ventas de ‘6 centavo
durante los siguientes 25 ahos para cubrir estas necesidades. Otros veinte condados en California ya han
aprobado medidas de boletas similares con lo que se han convertido en Condados de ‘Autosuficiencia Con
estos fondos locales para el transporte aprobados por los electores, los Condados de Autosuficiencia pueden
mantener y mejorar sus sistemas de transporte. Tambien son mas exitosos al competir por financiamiento v
aprovechar una mcn>or parte de los dolares estatales y federales. Los fondos autosuficientes generados deben
quedarse a nivel local y solo pueden gastarse en el transporte.

El Plan de Gastos del Condado de Stanislaus (el “Plan ”) fue desarrollado a troves de un programa integral de
participation publica que pidio a los residentes identificar sus prioridades para los programas y proyectos
futures de transporte. La participation incluyo mas de 75 reuniones con organizaciones comunitarias y lideres
que representaron diversos puntos de vista. Ademas, se realizo una serie de grupos de enfoque y un sondeo
telefonico con validez estadistica. El Plan recibio un apoyo unanime y fue aprobado por el Consejo de
Gobiernos de Stanislaus, todas las nueve ciudades de la region y la Junta de Superstores del Condado.

La Autosuficiencia en el Condado de Stanislaus:

• Generaria alrededor de S38 millones por aho con base en el impuesto a las ventas de ‘6 centavo para un
total calculado de S960 millones a lo largo de la vida de la medida;

• Se usaria para proyectos LOCALES v prioridades LOCALES, con lo que se prohibe que Sacramento se
aduehe de estos fondos;

•	Permitiria al Condado de Stanislaus competir por subsidies Estatales v Federales y recaudar fondos.
con lo que se incrementarian los ingresos:

•	Proporcionaria un Plan de Gastos con una lista espectfica de proyectos y programas: e

•	Incluiria un Comite de Vigilancia para garantizar que los proyectos y los programas en el Plan sean
financiados o completados realmente.

/ \ T

3?

El Plan de Gastos

Estimaciones de Ingresos y Distribution

A lo largo de! plan de 25 anos, se calcida que se generardn S960 miUones de dolares para inversiones en
transpom local. Se calculo esta cantidad con base en un promedio de !os ingresos por los impuesios a las
ventas de cinco anos en iodo e! Condado que despues se redujo para reflejar un calculo conservador.

En este Plan se esiabiece la disiribucidn de los ingresos Autosuficiemes. Los ingresos calcidados y la
distribution entre las categorias se basan en el valor monetario de 2016 y no son vinculantes o controladores.
Los fondos para el transpose a partir de los impuestos a las ventas se distribuircm segirn los porcentajes del
ingreso real recibido.

Este Jinanciamiento servira como una inversion que aprovechara las oportunidades futuras locales, estatales y
federates de subsidios. Se usaran los fondos para todas las fases de implementation de proyectos. que incluyen:
planificacion, medioambiente, permisos, v diseho, derecho de peso, v/o proyectos de capital de construction y
operaciones. Las fuentes de financiamiento estatal y federal que tambien se pueden usar para implementor
proyectos y programas de iransporte en la siguiente decada incluyen el Programa de Me]or as en el Transporte
Regional Estatal (State Regional Transportation Improvement Program, STIP), el Programa de Mejora de
Transporte Interregional (Inter-regional Transportation Improvement Program, IT1P), el Programa de
Proyectos de Autopistas v Cargamentos de la Ley para el Establecimiento del Transporte de Superficie de los
Estados Unidos (Fixing America's Surface Transportation, FAST), el programa de Calidad del Aire a troves de
la Mitigation de la Congestion Vial (calculo regional de $15M), los Fondos Regionales para el Transporte de
Superficie (calculo regional de $10M) y el Financiamiento Local (por ejemplo, cuotas para desarrolladores,
fondos generatesy la Medida “Control Local").

Todos los cdlculos v la distribution de los ingresos que se senalan en este Plan son unicamente para fines
ilustrativos. Es posiole que los ingresos news reales se encuentren por arriba o por debajo de las provecciones
senaladas en el Plan de Gastos y, por lo tanto, la distribution real de los ingresos para coda categoria se
basara en el porcentaje estipulaao en este medio.

Control Local del 65% del total (50% para Callesy Caminos Locales,

10% para Gestion del Transito, 5% para Ciclistasy Peatones)

Callesy Caminos Locales, 50%, S480,150,000

Al reconocer que las calles son la columna vertebral de nuestro sistema de transporte, este Plan proporciona
fondos a las ciudades locales y al Condado de Stanislaus, que se distribuyen principalmente con base en los
ingresos de los impuestos a las ventas de 2015 generados para apoyar a los caminos locales. Cada agenda
identificard las calles y caminos especificos que tendrdn prioridad para ser reparados y/o renovados. Estos
fondos se usaran exclusivamente para la reparation y el mantenimiento - no se financiaran nuevos caminos.
Estos fondos deben usarse para aumentar el gasto actual en transporte y no pueden utilizarse para reemplazar
los gastos generates de financiamiento de una agenda local.

5 0/3*

38

Jurisdiccion	% del Programa para Calles y Caminos Locales'	Total	Total Anual
	i-' > ‘ ‘ :		« 'ir^‘ j: — 		
Ceres	6.36%	30,552.381.79	1.222.095.2~
Hugkson	136% . *. •	$,648,875-58’	' ' 241.923.02
Modesto	35.79%	171,868.971.22	6,874,758.85
Newman	126%	&848.075J58 ’	2 ‘241.923.02
Oakdale	3.86%	18.528.231.53	741.129.26
Patterson	£55%	21,8442272292	813M0S2
Rfverbank	3 42%	16.416.205.) 4	656.648 21
Turlock	15 jm ; •	732259,563.69\	2,330,380.15
Waterford	1.26%	6,048.075.58	241.923.02
Condado de	26$8% v.	129,540.206.98	’"5)18260828
Stanislaus "		‘ » V	
Total	100.00%	480,150,000.00	19,206,000.00
Gestion del Transito. 10%, S96,036,000  Estos son proyecios que inclm>en mejoras en las intersecciones locales, la amp			liacion de caminos,
sehalizacion, el reemplazo de puentes v/o metodos para		regular el transito.	
Jurisdiccion % para Gestion		Total	Total Anual



Ceres	6.36%	6,110,476	244.419
Hugkson	126%	.* 'MJSB&M5	48,385
Modesto	35. i9%>	34,373,794	1.374,952
Newman	, 126% .	. ifmMs	48385
Oakdale	3.86%	3,705,646	148,226
Patterson	4.55% '	£368)055	174,722
Riverbank	3.42%	3,283,241	131,330
Turtodk .if ') - - v -	- >. 1 1526%	V'*siW5i'M * ‘ -	
Waterford	1.26%	),209,615	48,385
Condado de Stanislaus	26.98%	25)90$p4J ‘	. W36322
Total	100.00%	96,030,000	3,841.200

1	i% para el Consejo de Gobiernos de Stanislaus por la gestion del programa.

2	Menos del 1% para la administracion de los programas del Consejo de Gobiernos de Stanislaus.

Esios proyecios inclvyen la conecihidad local entre las comunidades. las escuelas locales, los senderos v las
instalaciones de recreacidn. Cada agenda trabajard esvschamenie con ios residences para determinar el ripo.
ia ubicacion y laprioridad de ias nue\>as instalaciones o las mejoras a las existentes.

Jurisdiccion	%	para Ciclistas	Total	Total	Anual

y PeatonesJ

« C '			yyfHryj'L--
Ceres	6.36%	3.055.238	122,210
HugEson	S’; ? - ' 3Jti% - - •	' 604,86s '	24392
Modesto	35 79%	17,186,897	687,476
Ne^mm-X		■ 604,808 f-	‘24392
Oakdale	3.86%	1,852,823	74,113
Patterson	' - ‘ . "4J5% ~	1,184 Ml v	87,361
Rtverbank	3.42%	1,641,621	65,665
Turlock	- , 1536%	%£225g5$ .	293yQ38
Waterford	1.26%	604,808	24.192
Condado de I	ZanS&ai::^ 26M%^^ '	12,954%tr	618361
Total	100.00%	48,015,000	1,920,600

Los usos disponibles para la categorla de financiamiento de Control Local incluyen:

•	El mantenimiento, la mejora o ia construccion de calles, caminos, puentes e instalaciones para ciclistas
y peatones,

•	Las Mejoras Comunitarias, como el paisaje urbane de! centra, las mejoras del transporte, la
orientacion de caminos v las mejoras de accesibilidaa, el alumbrado de las calles, ios accesorios de las
calles v los drboles,

•	Las Mejoras de Seguridad,

•	Los programas que rechicen la demanda de transporte,

•	La reparacion del done provocado por tormentas a las instalaciones de transporte

•	Las instalaciones de alcantarillado de las calles,

•	La coordinacion de senales de trdnsito, interseccion y canalizacion, y

•	La gestion del trdnsito.

3 Menos del 1% para la administracion de los programas del Consejo de Gobiernos de Stanislaus.

Control Regional

Proyectos Regionales, 28%. S268.884.000

Estos fondos se usarianpara la planificacion, el desarrolio de proyectos, el derecho de paso y!o ia construccion
de proyectos principaies de capital v de corredores. Los proyectos regionales propuesios se encuentran en
aiferentes eiapas de impiementacion. El Plan incluye urt grupo de proyectos identificados a traves de una
combinacion de participacion publica, prioridades de las agendas locales y la direccion de la Junta del Cornejo
de Gobiemos de Stanislaus con base en su Plan de Transporte Regional del 2035. Se distribuiran los fondos
para los proyectos en todo el Condado con una reserva intacta de aproximadamente S30,000,000 para cubrir
las necesidades regionales futuras.

Proyecto

Descripcidn

Presupuesto Total

Financiado a
Traves del Plan

SR 99

Intercambio	Reconstruccion del

Briggsmore	Intercambio de 8

Carriles

S98,6 79,400.00	$24,669,850.00



ilSi

SR33

r	ta '' ■"

Mejoras de seguridad
para peatones y
autopistas de la linea
del Condado de Merced
con direccion Norte a
Yolo Avenue

$10,000,000.00

$2,500,000.00

SR-99	Keyes Rd a Toy lor Rd	Construccion de Garni Awdliar ;Vi ■	* $65226,600.00. . . $1,245,320:00	
SR-99	Taylor Rd a	Construccion de Carril	$6,520,300.00	$1,304,060.00
	Monte Vista Ave	Auxiliar		
McHenry	LaddRda Hogue Rd ■ r	mpl acton 5 Cam es	$13,025,000 m -	\ »X
SR-99	West Main	Construccion de Nuevo Intercambio	$19,091,000.00	$3,818,200.00
ZachannJid	z. Raines Rda  V	Intercambio en la 1-5		
SR-99	Linea del	Instalacion de Mejoras	$15,758,300.00	$1,575,830.00
	Condado de	de Medicion de Rampas		
	San Joaquin	que incluyen los		
	a Mitchell Rd	Sistemas Inteligent.es de		

Transporte iIntelligent
Transportation Systems,
ITS) ‘

SR-99	Mitchell Rd a	Insidlacion de.Mejoras	$2,097^400.00	$.209,740.00
SR108-SR120	la line a del Condado de Merced  Oakdale.	de Medicion de Rampas que ineluyen ias Smemas Inteljgentes de Transporte (ITS) Mejoras de la	SI 0.000,000.00	$1,000,000.00
Mejoras de las	Condado  Riverbcmk	interseccion en Rodeo Instalacion de Luces de	$4,JO1,000.00	S42QJOO.OO
Senates		SehatizacionenClausy SR-108 e Instalacion de las Mejoras de Gestion de la Congestion via! en		
SR99	Intercambio	First Street y SR-J OS  Reconstruction de!	S78.943.500.00	S~, 894.350.00
	de SR-99 y Standiford	Intercambio de S Carriles.	$1,070,230,400.00	
	ff-a -Sf L"lT-			$228,414,425.00

Proveedores de Trdnsito

Otros Programas y Servieios de Transporte 7%

Servicios Punto A Punto Para Adultos May-ores, Veteranos Y Personas Con Discapacidades S20.166,300

Esio es para los servicios de transporte especializados de puerta a Puerto basados en ias necesidades para los
aduitos mayores. veteranos y personas con discapacidades. Estos fondos se distribuircm para el Programa
MOVE exisieme, con lo que basicameme se tripticard la capacidad de los servicios basados en las necesidades
para los adult os mayores. veteranos y personas con discapacidades del Condado.

Conexiones de la Comunidad $20,166,300

Los fondos se usaran para proyectos que proporcionardn vias mas seguras para los ciclistas y peatones en las
ciudades y en las areas no incorporadas. aumentardn el servicio de auiobuses/camionetas y mejorardn las
parados de autobus. Muchos miembros de la comunidad viven en areas que tienen limitado el trdnsito publico
y/o conexiones para bicicletas a las tiendas, escuelas y trabajos. Los fondos de esta caiegoria se usaran para
estimular los servicios en estas areas con io que sera mas sencillo el acceso para las personas a los servicios de
trdnsito y las instalaciones para ciclistas y peatones.

Se usardn los fondos para las meioras de las operaciones, el mantenimiento v la inffaestructura para el
transporte publico. Tambler: pueden usarse para complementer los fondos locales, esiaiales r federates para el
costo de los servicios de trdnsixo. Esios fondos se distribuiran a los proveedores de transporte publico para
apoyar o mejorar el semicio de transporte publico en toda la region. Esto puede incluir ei aumemo de la
frecuencia del servicio, la identificadon de nuevas rutas y/o la inversion en los servicios de recorridos
compartidos.

j Distribucidn del Financiamiemo Calculado para la Categoric de Trctnsiio	\

Porcentaje *	; Durante 25	\	Anualmente

______	anos	'____________

Monlo Total aue se Distribuira  j	100%	\ S13,444,200	$537,768 ;
Ceres	7%	; $941.094	$37,644 j
Modesto	52%	$6,990,984	$279,639 ;
Condado de Stanislaus	33%	; $4,436,586	$177,463 j
Turlock	8%	j S1,075,536	$43,021 !
Total	100%	j $13,444,200	$537,768 |
: i ; ! ! 1			
*E1 porcentaje concuerda con la Participacion en los Gastos del Transito del Consejo de \ Gobiemos de Stanislaus como se acordo en la junta de Gerenies de Transito el 14 de marzo de ; 2016 \			

Servicios Ferroviarios $13,444.200

Se usardn los fondos para las mejoras de las operaciones, el mantenimiento y la inffaestructura para las
conexiones del transporte publico con los senneios ferroviarios existentes. Pueden usarse para complememar
los fondos locales, estatales v federates para el costo de las conexiones del transporte publico a los ser\-icios
ferroviarios regionales, incluidos ACE, BART y Amtrak, y para la comercializacion para generar mas
concienciay aumentar la cantidad de pasajeros en todos los servicios ferroviarios.

El Consejo de Gobiemos de Stanislaus y el equipo administrativo de ACE creen que es necesario continuar
promoviendo el ACE en espera del financiamiento futuro que podra asignarse a la ampliacion propuesta. Se
podran utilizar para aumentar el numero de pasajeros y/o para financiar un nuevo servicio de AMTRAK y
aumentar las conexiones de aulobus/camionetas a los servicios ACE existentes hacia Bay Area. No se utilizaran
los Fondos para el Iren de aha velocidad.

Protecciones Construidas Dentro del Plan

Este Plan de Gastos incluye protecciones solidas para los contribuyentes con el fin de garantizar que los
proyectos y programas aprobados par los elect ores sean financiados v proporcionados.

Vigilancia Ciudadana

Se creara un Comite de Vigilancia para proporcionar un nivel mejorado de rendicion de cuentas respecto a los
gastos realizados de acuerdo con el Plan para garantizar que todos los mandates de los electores se lle\’en a
cabo y que se mantenga la integridad financiera y ei aesempeho del programa. El Co mite incluird a un
represeniante de cada agenda municipal, seleccionado per la agenda.

A uditoria Anual Independienie e Informe Anual

if comador publico certificado 'Certified Public Accountant. CPA/ realizard las auditories fiscales y de
CQnformidaa anuales para garanttar que los ingresos gastados seem necesariosy razonables. Estas auditorias y
v7 Imbrme anual deberan ser publicados y divulgados al publico general.

Fecka de Vencimiento

Esra medida vence en 25 afios.

Limiie de Gasios Administradvos del 1%

Los gasios en salarios del personal sueldos, beneficios y gastos generates necesarios para administrar el
programa estaran limitados a no mas del uno por ciento de los ingresos brutos anuales previstos por la medida.

Singiin ingreso generado a partir de este impuesto se usard para reemplazar la contribucion de la parte justa
de an nuevo desarrollo.

Los ingresos proporcionados a partir de esia medida no deberan ser usados para reemplazar los fondos de
desarrolladores privados que se han comprometido o se comprometerdn para cualquier proyecto para ayudar a
disminuir los efectos directos sobre el transito de cualquier desarrollo residencial, comercial e industrial nuevo
o vv.eltc a desarrollar en el Condado de Stanislaus o sus ciudades.

Verificacion de la Elegibilidad

Las ciudades y el Condado seleccionaran los proyecios de transporte que cumplan los criterios de elegibilidad
como se identifican en este Plan. Las jurisdicciones locales certificardn en la verificacion anual presentada al
Cornejo de Gobiemos de Stanislaus que estos fondos para el transporte se hayan usado para gastos elegibles.

Mantenimiento de los Esfuerzos Locales de Financiamiento para el Transporte

Las jurisdicciones locales certificardn en la verificacion anual presentada al Consejo de Gobiemos de
Stanislaus que estos fondos para el transporte se usaran para aumentar y no para susiituir los recursos locales
gastados. Para los fines de este calculo, se usard un promedio del gasto de los tres 13) afios anteriores para
fines de transporte local, como se define en la Ordenanza.

Plan Estrategico

El Consejo de Gobiemos de Stanislaus preparara y adoptara un Plan Estrategico dentro de doce meses de
cuando entre en vigor el impuesto a las ventas. El Plan estrategico incluira los calculos del costo de los
proyectos. los calculos de los ingresos, otros fondos complementary y un cronograma en borrador para la
realizacion de! proyecto regional. Su proposito principal es aclarar los costos de los programas y proyectos, el
calendario, los planes financieros v la preparacion de los proyectos para acelerar la realizacion de los
proyectos y permitir que los proyectos que esten ’listos' avancen dentro de los parametros del Plan de Gastos.

Para obtener informacion adicional sobre los proyectos y programas especificos en su area O para hacer
preguntas, visile nuestro sitio web en:

to Sianislaus-LocalRoadsFirsx.com

I III .lil II.

5 3/40

STANISLAUS COUNCIL OF GOVERNMENTS
Measure L

Local Roads First Transportation Funding Measure
Ordinance #16-01

The Stanislaus County Transportation Authority ordains as follows:

SECTION 1. TITLE. This Ordinance shall be known and may be cited as. “Measure L:

Local Roads First Transportation Funding Measure'* which shall establish and implement a retail
transaction and use tax.

SECTION 2. DEFINITIONS,

2.01.	“Authority" means the Stanislaus Council, of Governments as the Local
Transportation Authority as designated by the Stanislaus County Board of Superv isors, pursuant
to the Local Transportation Authority and Improvement Act set forth at California Public
Utilities Code Section 180000 et seq.

2.02.	“County" means the County of Stanislaus.

2.03.	“Expenditure Plan" means the Expenditure Plan attached to this Ordinance as
Exhibit “A" and incorporated herein.

2.04.	"Maintenance of Effort" means a jurisdiction must demonstrate maintenance of a
minimum level of local street and road expenditures in order to receive Local Streets and Roads
funds.

2.05.	“Operative Date" means the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing
more than 110 days after the adoption of the ordinance. If the (Ordinance is approved by a two-
thirds majority of the electors voting on this Ordinance at the election held on November 8.

2016, the Operative Date shall be April 1. 2017.

2.06.	“Ordinance” means the Measure L: Local Roads First Transportation Funding
Measure ordinance which establishes and implements the retail transaction and use tax set forth

herein.

SECTION 3. EXPENDITURE PLAN PURPOSES.

3.01.	This Ordinance pro vides for the implementation of the Expenditure Plan, as
approved and adopted by the Authority, which will result in countywide local street and road
improvements, arterial street widening, signalization, pedestrian, bicyclist, and driver safety
improvements. These needed improvements shall be funded by a one-half of one percent retail
transactions and use tax established for a twenty five year period. The revenues shall be
deposited in a special, fund, used solely for the transportation projects, improvements and
programs described in the Expenditure Plan, which is considered a part of this Ordinance and
hereby incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein.

SECTION 4. ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES.

4.01.	The revenues received by the Authority from this Ordinance, after deduction of the
required Board of Equalization costs for performing the functions specified in section 180204 of

Page 1 of 1

the Public Utilities Code, reimbursing the County of Stanislaus for its costs in conducting the
election if the measure is approved in accordance with section 180203(a) of the Public Utilities
Code, and after deduction for the administration of the Expenditure Plan pursuant to the
provisions of the Public Utilities Code commencing with section 180200, in an amount not to
exceed one-percent (1%), shall be used for the transportation projects, improvements and
programs countywide as set forth in the Expenditure Plan and in a manner consistent with the
Expenditure Plan developed by the Authority.

4.02,	Revenues may be expended by the Authority for salaries, wages, benefits,
overhead, auditing and those services including contractual services necessary to administer this
Ordinance; however, in no event shall an amount exceeding one-percent (1%) of the annual
revenue provided by this Ordinance go towards paying the administrative salaries and benefits of
the staff of the Authority. Costs of performing or contracting for project related work shall be
paid from the revenues allocated to the appropriate purpose.

4.03.	An annual independent audit shall be conducted to assure that the revenues
expended by the Authority under this section are necessary and reasonable in earning out its
responsibilities under this Ordinance.

SECTION 5. REQUEST FOR ELECTION.

5.01.	The Authority hereby requests the Stanislaus County Board of Supervisors place
this Ordinance before the voters for approval on the November 8, 2016 ballot.

5.02.	The proposition to be placed on the ballot shall contain a summary of the projects,
improvements, and programs and shall read substantially as follows:

To provide funding for local transportation improvements including: fixing
potholes/rnaintaming streets: improving emergency response: providing safe
routes to schools; providing senior, veterans and disabled shuttle services; and
improving safetv/redueing traffic congestion on Highway 99/major streets; shall
the Stanislaus County Transportation Authority enact a 14 cent sales tax,
generating $38,000,000 annually for transportation projects, funds that cannot be
taken by the Slate, requiring all money to be spent in Stanislaus County with
citizens* oversight for 25 years?

SECTION 6. EFFECTIVE, OPERATIVE AND TERMINATION DATES.

6.01.	This Ordinance shall become effective on November 8, 2016 only if a two-thirds
majority of the electors voting on this Ordinance at the election held on November 8. 2016 vote
to approve the Ordinance. If so approved, the provisions of this Ordinance shall become
operative on April 1,2017 and shall be imposed and collected for a period of twenty-five (25)
years thereafter.

6.02.	The authority to levy the tax authorized pursuant to this Ordinance shall expire on
March 31,2042.

SECTION 7. CONTRACT WITH STATE.

7.01.	Prior to the Operative Date, the Authority shall contract with the State Board of
Equalization to perform all functions incident to the administration and operation of this

Page 2 of 2

Ordinance; provided, that if the Authority shall not have contracted with the S ta te Board of
Equalization prior to the Operative Date, it shall nevertheless so contract and in such a case the
operative date shall he the first day of the first calendar quarter following the execution of such a
contract.

SECTION 8. TRANSACTIONS AND I'SE TAX RATE.

8.01.	For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax is hereby
imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated and unincorporated territory of the County at the
rate of one-half of one percent (0.5%) of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all
tangible personal property sold at retail in said territory on and after the Operative Date of this
Ordinance.

8.02.	An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other consumption in the
incorporated and unincorporated territory of the County of tangible personal property purchased
from any retailer on and after die Operative Date of this Ordinance for storage, use or other
consumption in said territory at the rate of one-half of one percent (0.5%) of the sales price of the
property. The sales price shall include delivery charges when such charges are subject to state
sales or use tax regardless of the place to which delivery is made.

SECTION 9. EXPENDITURE PLAN PROCEDURES AND MAINTENANCE OF
EFFORT.

9.01.	It is the intent of the Legislature and the Authority that revenues provided from
this Ordinance be used to supplement existing revenues being used for transportation projects,
improvements and programs.

9.02. Pursuant to the intent of the Public Utilities Code section 180001. a jurisdiction
cannot redirect monies currently being used for transportation purposes to other uses, and then
replace the redirected funds with local street maintenance and improvement dollars from the
retail transaction and use tax.

9.03.	To meet the requirements of state law. in order to receive Local Streets and Roads
funds a jurisdiction must demonstrate maintenance of a minimum level of local street and road
expenditures in conformance with the provision below:

9.03.01.	Annual expenditures of a local jurisdiction’s general funds for
transportation purposes shall not be an amount less than the jurisdiction’s three-year average of
its annual expenditures from its general fund during the prior three fiscal years. In calculating
the three-year average annual general fund expenditures, any unrestricted funds which the local
jurisdiction may expend at its discretion, expended for transportation purposes are expenditures
from the general fund.

9.03.02.	Subject to Authority approval, if any local jurisdiction had

extraordinary local discretionary fund expenditures during any fiscal year it may determine that
year's minimum expenditure base level of local discretionary funds by:

a) Subtracting those extraordinary expenses (including assessment district
contributions, development impact funds, or other non-recurring contributions)
from its total expenditures: or

Page 3 of 3

b) Petitioning the Authorin' for special consideration. It is possible that a
local jurisdiction may need to revise its minimum expenditure base beyond the
subtraction of extraordinary expenses. In this instance, the Authority may allow
the establishment of a new base for that jurisdiction's Maintenance of Effort
requirement. A local jurisdiction petitioning the Authority under this provision
must supply evidence of the need for special consideration and the petition must
be approved by a majority vote of the Authority.

9.04.	An annual independent audit will be conducted to verify that the Maintenance of
Effort requirements were met by the local jurisdictions. Any local jurisdiction which does not
meet its Maintenance of Effort requirement in any given year may have its Local Streets and
Roads fund received pursuant to the Expenditure Plan reduced in the following year by the
amount by which the jurisdiction did not meet its required Maintenance of Effort. Such funds
shall be redistributed to the remaining eligible jurisdictions.

SECTION 10. ORDINANCE PURPOSES.

10.01.	This Ordinance is adopted to achieve the following, among other purposes, and
directs the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish these purposes:

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the
provisions of Division 19 (commencing with Section 180000) of the
California Public Utilities Code, and Part 1.6 (commencing with
Section 7251) of Division 2 of the California Revenue and Taxation Code,
which authorizes the Authority to adopt this tax ordinance which shall be
operati ve if two-thirds (2/3) of the electors voting on the measure vote to
approve the imposition of the tax at an election called for that purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates
provisions identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of
California insofar as those provisions are not inconsistent with the
requirements and limitations contained in Division 19 (commencing with
Section 180000) of the California Public Utilities Code, and Part 1.6
(commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the California Revenue
and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax and
provides a measure therefor that can be administered and collected by the
State Board of Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as
practicable to, and requires the least possible deviation from, the existing
statutory and administrative procedures followed by the State Board of
Equalization in administering and collecting the California State Sales and
Use Taxes.

D.	The funds generated by the transaction and use tax authorized by this
Ordinance may only be used for transportation purposes including the
administration of the Expenditure Plan, as may be amended, including
defense or prosecution of legal actions related thereto, the construction
acquisition, maintenance, and operation of streets, roads, highways,
including state highways and public transit systems and for related

Page 4 of 4

transportation purposes, including project management and oversight of
the projects to he funded using the transaction and use tax. such as
coordination with other responsible agencies as well as project delivery
and negotiation of project agreements. These purposes include
expenditures for planning, environmental reviews, engineering and design,
costs, and related right-of-way acquisition,. Expenditures also include, hut
are not limited to. debt services on bonds or other indebtedness, and
expenses and reserves in connection with the issuance of the same .

SECTION 1L ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW.

11.01,	Except as otherwise provided in this Ordinance, all of the provisions of Part 1
(commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the California Revenue and Taxation Code,
insofar as the)' relate to sales taxes and are not inconsistent with the provisions of Part 1.6
(commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code and Division
19 (commencing with Section 180000) of the California Public Utilities Code, are hereby
adopted and made a part of this Ordinance as though fully set forth herein.

11.02.	In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the name of
the Authority shall be substituted therefor, 'lire name of the Authority shall also be substituted
for the word "state” in the phrase "retailer engaged in business in this state” in Section 6203 and
in the definition of that phrase.

SECTION 12. ADDITONAL PERMIT NOT REQUIRED.

12.01.	if a seller’s permit has been issued to a retailer under section 6067 of the
California Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional transactor's permit shall not be required by
this Ordinance.

SECTION 13. EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS.

13.01.	The amount subject to tax pursuant to this Ordinance shall not include the amount
of sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or by any city, city and county, or
county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law. or the amount of
any state-administered transactions or use tax,

13.02.	There are exempted from the transactions tax portion of the transactions and use
tax authorized pursuant to this Ordinance:

A.	The gross receipts from the sale of tangible personal property, other than,
fuel or petroleum products, to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the
county in which the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of the aircraft as
common carriers of persons or property under the authority of the laws of this state, the United
States, or any foreign government.

B.	The sales of property to be used outside the Count) which are shipped to a
point outside the County, pursuant to the contract of sale, by deli very to that point by the retailer

Page 5 of 5

or his or her agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at such
point.

1.	For purposes of this Ordinance, “delivery"’ of vehicles (other than
commercial vehicles) subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section
4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of
the Public Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing
with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code shall be satisfied by (i) registration to an out-of-County
address; and, (ii) by a declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that the
address is, in fact, his or her principal place of residence.

2.	For purposes of this Ordinance, “delivery" of commercial vehicles
shall be satisfied by (i) registration to a place of business out of County; and, (ii) a declaration
under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, that the vehicle will be operated from that address.

C.	llte sale of tangible personal property is exempt from the tax authorized
by this Ordinance if the seller is obligated to furnish the property for a fixed price pursuant to a
contract entered into prior to the Operative Date of this Ordinance.

D.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of that
property is exempt from the tax authorized by this Ordinance for any period of time for which
the lessor is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the
Operative Date of this Ordinance.

E.	For purposes of Section 13.02 subparagraphs C. and D, the sale or lease of
tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for
any period of lime for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to
terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not that right is exercised.

13.03.	There are exempted from the use tax portion of the transactions and use tax
authorized pursuant to this Ordinance:

A.	A retailer engaged in business in the County shall not be required to
collect use tax from, the purchaser of tangible personal property, unless the retailer ships or
delivers the property into the County or participates within the County in making the sale of the
property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving the order, either directly or
indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer in the County or through any representative,
agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the County under the authority of the retailer.

B.	“A retailer engaged in business in the County** shall also include any
retailer of any of the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1
(commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in
compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels registered
under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer is
required to collect use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or
aircraft at an address in the County.

C.	The storage, use, or other consumption of tangible personal property, other
than fuel or petroleum products, purchased by operators of aircraft, and used or consumed by the
operators directly and exclusively in the use of the aircraft as common carriers of person or

Page 6 of 6

property for hire or compensation under a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued
pursuant to the laws of this state, the United States, or any foreign government This exemption
is in addition to the exemptions provided in Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the California Revenue
and Taxation Code.

D.	The storage, use. or other consumption in the County of tangible personal
property' if the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price pursuant to a
contract entered into prior to the Operative Date of this Ordinance.

E.	The possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, tangible
personal property under a lease which is a continuing purchase of the property is exempt from
tax for any period of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the property for an amount
fixed by a lease entered into prior to the Operative Date of this Ordinance.

F.	For the purposes of Section 13.03, subparagraphs D and E. the storage,
use. or other consumption of, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power over, tangible
personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any
period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to
terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not the right is exercised.

G.	Any person subject to use tax under this Ordinance may credit against that
tax or any transactions tax, or to reimbursement for a transactions tax. paid to a County or
retailer in the County imposing a transactions and use tax pursuant to Part ] .6 of Division 2 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code,

SECTION 14. PLACE OF SALE.

14.01.	For the purposes of this Ordinance, all retail transactions are consummated at the
place of business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is delivered by the
retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier lor delivery to an out-
of-state destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery charges, when
such charges are subject to the state sales and use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is
made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the state or has more than
one place of business, the place or places at which the retail sales are consummated for the
purpose of a transaction tax imposed by this Ordinance shall be determined under rules and
regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the State Board of Equalization.

SECTION J5. BONDING AUTHORITY.

15.01.	The Authority shall have the power to sell or issue, at any time, and from time to
time, limited tax bonds payable from and secured by the proceeds from, the sales tax authorized
by this Ordinance in order to finance and refinance the transportation projects identified in the
Expenditure Plan,

15.02.	The maximum bonded indebtedness which may be outstanding at any one time
shall be an amount equal to the sum of the principal of, and interest on, the bonds, but not to
exceed the estimated proceeds of the tax. The amount of bonds outstanding at any one time does
not include the amount of bonds, refunding bonds, or bond anticipation notes for which funds
necessary for the payment thereof have been set aside for that purpose in a trust or escrow
account.

Page 7 of 7

16.01.	The Authority may annually review and propose amendments to the Expenditure
Plan to provide for the use of additional federal, state, and local funds, to account for unexpected
revenues, or to take into consideration unforeseen circumstances. The Authority may not amend
the sales tax revenue allocations by category set forth in the Expenditure Plan as the allocations
may be amended only if two-thirds majority of the electors vote to approve,

16.02,	Amendments	to	the	Expenditure	Plan must be passed by a two-thirds

majority vote of the Authority board’s total membership by a roll call vote entered in the minutes
of the Authority following a noticed, public hearing of the Authority. Notice of the public
hearing shall be published pursuant to Government code section 6062. Subsequently, the
Authority shall notify the Board of Supervisors, the City Council of each city in the county and
provide each with a copy of the proposed amendment(s). Pursuant to Public Utilities Code
section 180207. proposed amendments) shall become effective 45 days after notice is given,
unless appealed under the process outlined in the following paragraph. Should an appeal be
filed, the Authority shall hold a public hearing on the proposed amendment^) within 45 days of
the filing of the appeal.

16.03,	In	the	event that a local jurisdiction does not agree with, the Authority’s

amendments), the jurisdiction’s governing body must, by a majority vote, determine to formally
notify the Authority of its intent, in writing by registered mail, to obtain an override of the
Authority’s amendment!s). The appealing jurisdiction will have 45 days from the date the
Authority adopts the proposed amendments) to obtain resolutions supporting an override of the
amendments) from a majority of the cities representing a majority of the popul ation residing
within the incorporated areas of the county and from the Board of Supervisors. If a jurisdiction
does not obtain the necessary1 resolutions supporting the override, the Authority’s amendments)
to the Expenditure Plan will stand. If the necessary' resolutions supporting the override are
obtained within 45 days from the date the Authority adopts the proposed amendments), then the
amendments) shall not become effective.

16.04.	The	Expenditure Plan shall be updated by the Authority every1 ten years

that the sales tax is in effect to reflect current and changing priorities and needs in the County, as
defined by the duly elected local government representatives on the Authority Board. Any
changes to the Expenditure Plan must be adopted with current law in effect at the time of the
update and must be based on findings of necessity for change by the Authority.

SECTION 17. AMENDMENTS TO THIS ORDINANCE.

17.01.	This Ordinance may be amended lo further its purposes. The Authority shall
establish a process for proposed Ordinance amendments) which ensures that the Authority
committees established by this Ordinance participate in the development of the proposed
Ordinance amendment(s).

17.02.	Upon completion of that process, amendment(s) to this Ordinance must be passed
by a two-thirds majority of the Authority board’s total membership by a roll call vote entered in
the minutes of the Authority. The Authority must hold a noticed, public hearing on the matter
before forma] adoption of any amendment to the Ordinance. Notice of the public hearing shall
be published pursuant to Government Code section 6062.

Page 8 of 8

] 7.03, In the event that a local jurisdiction does not agree with the Authority's
amendments), the jurisdiction's policy decision-making body must, by a majority vote,
determine to formally notify the Authority of its intent, in writing by registered mail, to obtain an
override of the Authority’s amendments). The appealing jurisdiction will have 45 days from the
date the Authority adopts the proposed amendments) to obtain resolutions supporting an
override of the amendments) from a majority of the cities representing a majority of the
population residing within the incorporated areas of the county and from the Board of
Supervisors. If a jurisdiction does not obtain the necessary resolutions supporting the override,
the Authority's amendment!s) to the Ordinance will stand. If the necessary resolutions
supporting the override are obtained within 45 days from the date the Authority adopts the
proposed amendments), then the amendments) shall not become effective.

SECTION 18. AUTHORITY COMMITTEES.

18.01.	The following committee structure is established to advise the Authority in the
administration of the Expenditure Plan and this Ordinance:

A. A Measure "1." Oversight Committee is established to review the
independent fiscal audit of the expenditure of the tax funds and issue an annual report on its
findings regarding compliance with the requirements of the Expenditure Plan and the Ordinance
to the Board of the Authority. The Measure “L” Oversight Committee is responsible for
oversight of the proper use of sales tax funds and implementation of the programs and projects
set forth in the Expenditure Plan and making recommendations to the Board of the Authority.
The committee is not a policy making body. The Measure “IT Oversight Committee shall
consist of one representative from each of the following jurisdictions: City of Ceres. City of
Hughson. City of Modesto, City of Newman. City of Oakdale. City of Patterson, City of
Rjverbank, City of Turlock, City of Waterford and Stanislaus County. Members of the Measure
“L” Oversight Committee shall not be members of any other Authority or StanCOG
committee! s).

SECTION 19. STATUTORY AMENDMENTS.

19.01.	All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this Ordinance to Part 1 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and which are not
inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation. Code, and all
amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall
automatically become a part of this Ordinance, provided however, that no such amendment shall
operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this Ordinance.

SECTION 20. CREATION OF SEPARATE ACCOUNT.

20.01.	All retail transaction and use tax revenue, plus interest, will be deposited in a
special fund for the projects identified in the Expenditure Plan, The fund(s) authorized under
tills Ordinance will be administered by the Authority.

20.02.	The Authority shall allocate funds to projects and programs identified in the
Expenditure Plan as necessary to meet contractual and program obligations. The Authority may
allocate funds as described but may reserve the right not to disburse monies until needed to meet
contractual project or program obligations. Each agency recei ving funds from this Ordinance
shall deposit said funds in a separate interest bearing account. Any interest earned on funds

Page 9 of 9

allocated pursuant to this Ordinance shall be expended only for those purposes for which the
funds were allocated or shall be returned to the Authority. The Authority reserves the right to
audit such accounts.

SECTION 21. CALIFORNIA ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY ACT.

21.01.	This Ordinance is not a project as defined in Section 153 78 of the California
Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines and is therefore exempt from CEQA
requirements. Prior to the commencement of any project included in the Expenditure Plan, any
necessary environmental review required by CEQA shall he completed.

SECTION 22. IMPLEMENTING ORDINANCES.

22.01.	Upon approval of this Ordinance by the voters, the Authority may. in addition to
the local rules required to he provided pursuant to this Ordinance, adopt implementing
ordinances, rules and administrative procedures, and take such other actions as may be necessary'
and appropriate to carry out its responsibilities to implement the Expenditure Plan.

SECTION 23, DESIGNATION OF FACILITIES.

23.01.	Each project or program in excess of $250,000 funded in whole or in part by
revenues from this Ordinance shall be clearly designated in writing by signs and/or documents,
during its construction or implementation as being funded by revenues from this Ordinance.

SECTION 24. CONTRACTING FOR PROJECT DELIVERY.

24.01.	The Authority shall have the power to contract for project delivery of any project
or program of the Expenditure Plan if all of the jurisdictions affected by the project agree and if
the Authority finds that:

A.	The project could be delivered faster under a contract issued by the
Authority; or

B.	A contract by the Authority would provide economies of scale and reduce
project costs.

SECTION 25. ANNUAL REPORT.

25.01.	An annual report will be prepared by the Authority within 180 days of the end of
the fiscal year identifying the actions tend accomplishments of the Authority in meeting the

adopted Expenditure Plan.

SECTION 26. SEVERABILITY.

26.01.	If any section, part , provision, clause or phrase of this Ordinance or the
application thereof to any person or circumstances is for any reason held invalid or
unconstitutional, the remaining portions of this Ordinance and the application of such provisions
to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected but shall remain in fail force and effect.

Page 10 of 10

27.01.	Article XIIIB of the California Constitution requi res the establishment of an
annual appropriations limit for certain governmental entities. The maximum annual
appropriations limit for the Authority has been established as $500 million. The appropriations
limit shall be subject to adjustment as provided by law. All expenditures of the retail transaction
and use tax revenues authorized pursuant to this Ordinance are subject to the appropriations limit
of the Authority.

SECTION 28. ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN.

28.01.	No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in
any suit action or proceeding in any court against the State or the Authority, or against any
officer of the State or the Authority, to prevent or enjoin the collection under this Ordinance, or
Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the California Revenue and Taxation
Code, or Division 19 (commencing with Section 180000) of the California Public Utilities Code,
of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.

SECTION 29. CAPTIONS.

29.01.	The titles and headings to the sections set forth in this Ordinance are not part of
this Ordinance and shall have no effect upon the construction or interpretation of any part hereof.

SECTION 30. ADOPTION OF ORDINANCE.

30.01.	This Ordinance was introduced and the title thereof read at the regular meeting of
the Authority's governing Board on June 15, 2016. and adopted at the regular meeting of the
Authority’s governing Board on June 22. 2016, with further reading thereof having been waived

by a vote of the members present.

/s / VITO CHI ESA. CHAIR

Isl ROSA DE LEON PARK, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR

Page 11 of 11

PROPOSITION 59

Yne	CORPORATIONS.

1	POLITICAL.

KU SPENDING. FEDERAL
CONSTITUTIONAL

PROTECTIONS.
LEGISLATIVE
ADVISORY
QUESTION.

A'*-; wlmlher California's elected officials
i should use their aulhonty lo propose and ratify
i an amendment lo the federal Constitution
I overturning lire United Slates Supreme Court
I decision in Citizens United v. Federal Election
■ Commission Citizens United ruled that laws
plating certain limiis on polilicul spending by
corporations and unions are unconstitutional
i I'iscal Impact: No direct fetal effect on slain or
< local governments

Shull California's elected officials use all ol Ihtnr
constitutional authority, including, but not
limited lo. proposing and ratifying one or more
amendments lo the United Slates Constitution,
to overturn Citizens United v, Federal Election
Commission 12010) 55fi U S. 310. and other
applicable judicial precedents to allow the tell
I imjnlnlion or limitation of campaign
j rreitrihutais and spending, to ensure that all
, '.limns, regardless ol wealth, may express
: then views lo one anolhur. and lo make clear
! ihiit corporations should not have tee same
; constitutional rights ns tiuman bemos?

PROPOSITION 60

Ync	ADULT FILMS.

M>&	CONDOMS. HEALTH

K.	REQUIREMENTS.

INITIATIVE STATUTE.

Requires adult film
performers to use
condoms during filming
ni sexual intercourse Requires producers to
nny tor performer vaccinations, testing, and
medical examinations Requires producers lo
oust condom requirement at film sites. Fiscal
Impact. Likely reduction ol state and local lax
revenues of several million dollars annually.
Increased slate spending that could exceed $1
million annually on regulation, partially offset by
now foes

I CONTINUE VOTING IN NEXT COLUMN

_____I\

Cl

"V

PROPOSITION 64

Yp<;	MARIJUANA

' *	LEGALIZATION.

M	INITIATIVE STATU IE.

1Leqall/es marijuana

under state law. for use

by niJulls 21 or older
imuoses slate laxes on
sales and cultlvallon. Provides fur Industry
licensing and establishes slntmnrds for
marijuana prndupis. Allows local regulation
and luxation Fiscal Impact Additional lax
revenues ranging hum high hundreds of
millions nl (iullars lo over $1 hillion annually,
mostly dedicated to specihi; purposes.
Reduced criminal justice rxtsts of lens of
millions nl dollars annually

PROPOSITION 65

Ypc	CARRYOUT BAGS.

CHARGES.

M	INITIATIVE ST ATUTE,

ivy	Redirects money

collected by grocery and
certain other retail
stores iluough
mandalod sale ol carryout bags Requirea
stores lo deposit ban sale proceeds inly a
special fund lo support S|>ocified enviionmenlnl
projects Fiscal Impact' Potential slate
revenue ol several Inns ol millinns ol dollars
annually under curtain ciruumstences, with |ji<>
monies used lo support certain environmental
programs

PROPOSITION 66

COUNTY OF STANISLAUS ■ 50

Y„,j	DEATH PENALTY

PROCEDURES.

N	INITIATIVE STATUTE

,N’	Changes procedures

governing stole court
challenges to death
sentences Designates
supeiior court ter initial peldions and' limits
successive pelillons Requires appointed
aitomoys who lake noncapital appeals lo
accepl death penally appeals Exempts prison
officials hem existing regulation process lor
developing execution methods. Fiscal Impad
Unknown ongoing impact on stele court costs
to' processing legal challenges to death
sentences Potential prison savings in Ihp urns
ol millions nf (loiters annually

CONTINUE VOTING IN NEXT COLUMN

RACK N O ! 111 /. J ,1.111.,"!;

TURLOCK UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT

MEASURE 0

Bonds-Yea
Bonds No

Unified School Distort

In upgrade mid
repair nigh schools
yvi! h litr.fif hmdinii
llwl i.ianiioi lie
iaken liy llii! Slate,
shrill Turtoek
provide science.

locImoltiyy/eiKilfmoring intus, provide new
dassroonisdnslniciionnl lechnnioriy. Iintlmltey
necessary infrastructure. for ewe sirttirlemitts;
modmiiije lacililias to meet her illli/sufBly
codes. Improve campus salety/secunly:
repair, construct. aconire, oquip, classrooms
silos, (mtilitios. by Issuing Mfl.000,000 ol
bonds at loyal rales;, willi Independent ciltan
oversiuhl. no money lor ridminislrntors. nor! all
lumte used for Turks;!* Schools?

7

COUNTY

MEASURE L

Yes	I’nivrde	funding	tor	j

local (rangpotlalion
>1	improvements

110	including. (ferny

liollinlos/maimiiining i
slrnels.	Improving	|

rsnriiunni y rosprnrsn; | inivkliny stiff? mules IS |
schools:	providing	senior,	veterans anti	i

rilnfiliteil	Shuitlu services. and imrnuvinii	i

snlolyrTodiicinu IrnlBc congestion on liiuliwfiy I
OT/major streets: shall Ihe Sianmlnns Ctornty
Transport,'lifon Auibuiily ennui a '<cent sates
la*, (innerfiling $.)!'.000 1)00 annually for
Iranspwffllion pioieels. funds that rantidl t>>>
taken by Iho Slate, reriuirlnd all money to Ini
spent in	Stanislaus	wnuiiy	with citterns

oversight lor 25 years?

END OF BALLOT

’ HR ! TypT.M f?w*| 0023 Dpt 01