Ballot question

The following question appeared on the ballot:[i]

To provide general city services such as: street and facility maintenance
and fire, police, youth and senior services; shall the City of Marina update
its 38 year old business license tax rates to 0.2% of gross receipts, so
small businesses pay lower amounts than larger businesses; generating
approximately $900,000 annually; continuing until ended by voters or
reduced by City Council; and all funds controlled locally?[2]

Impartial analysis

The following impartial analysis of the measure was prepared by the office of the Marina
City Attorney:

The City of Marina requires that, generally, any person conducting a

44

business in the City pay a business license tax to the City.

The existing tax rates have not been changed since 1978. The rate structure
divides businesses into 17 different tax categories. Some businesses are
charged a tax based on their gross receipts. Other businesses are charged a
tax based on their gross payroll. Other businesses pay a flat rate based on
the number of days they operate, the number of vehicles they employ, or
some other measure. Although they are conducting a business, there is no
rate specified for landlords operating buildings with less than ten rental units.

Measure U, placed on the ballot by the City Council, would eliminate the
existing tax categories and establish a single tax rate for all businesses. That
rate would be 0.2% of the gross receipts of the business. Thus, for example,
a business with $100,000 in gross receipts would pay of a tax of $200. A
larger business with $1 Million in gross receipts would pay a tax of $2,000.

The minimum tax would be $100.

The existing tax generates approximately $90,000 in revenue for the City per
year. The City projects that the proposed rate will generate approximately

$900,000 per year. Proceeds of the tax are deposited in the general fund of
the City and used by the City for municipal purposes.

If the measure is not approved by a majority of voters voting, the business
license tax rate structure and taxing categories would remain unchanged.[2