BT 1, 4,13,14, 23, 27, 28, 35, 36, 37, 38

Local ballot measures D & E: City of Redding

City of Redding

Ballot question

"Shall an ordinance be adopted authorizing the City of Redding to collect a one-half of one percent
sales tax (Transactions and Use Tax) for general municipal purposes for a period of ten years?"

What your vote means

YES	NO
A "yes" vote is a vote in favor of authorizing the transactions and use tax for a period of ten years.	A "no" vote is a vote against authorizing the transactions and use tax.

City of Redding Advisory to Measure D

Advisory Measure question

"If the voters of the City of Redding approve a one-half of one percent limited term general sales

tax (Transactions and Use Tax) increase, should the additional revenue be used to augment police protection, jail space, mental health services, fire protection, and related public safety services?"	
What your vote means	
YES	NO
A "yes" vote is an indication to the City Council of how the voters believe the revenue should be spent.	A "no" vote is an indication to the City Council that the voters have no specific preference as to how the revenue should be spent.

FOR Measures D & E		AGAINST Measures D & E
Missy McArthur	Kristen Schreder	Gary Cadd
Mayor	Council Member	Council Member
City of Redding	City of Redding	City of Redding
Brent Weaver	Francie Sullivan	
Vice-Mayor	Council Member	
City of Redding	City of Redding	

Shasta County - Presidential General Section - November 8, 2016 / 1

Arguments and replies are the opinions of the authors. We print them exactly as submitted, including errors.

Argument for Measure D

Rebuttal

Reply to argument for Measure D

REDDING CITIZENS DESERVE TO BE SAFE AND
PROTECTED, including families with grandparents and
kids, businesses keeping our economy strong, and
tourists who visit. While our economy has stabilized, we
have had to deal with changes outside of our control:
state-mandated prison releases, cutbacks in affordable
housing, and over-crowded county jails. These dire
circumstances have led to unacceptable consequences
for our community, with more "smash-and-grabs" and
lawbreakers out on the street without worry of
retribution: bad behavior without punishment or
restoration.

With Recession cutbacks, some firefighters work in 2-
person stations while the standard is 3-person stations:
mandatory for entering a burning building.

Paying ongoing expenses with the City's reserve funds
is not an option. These reserves must be maintained in
the event of another Great Recession or other
unforeseen expenses. There are no other hidden pots
of gold in the City's coffers.

Measure D will provide funding for the margin of safety
that our community must have to maintain the quality
of life we've all come to expect. Its companion
Measure, Measure E, will provide the guidelines as to
how these funds are implemented in a specific manner.
They are intended for only those purposes delineated in
Measure E, with a sunset clause of 10 years and
community oversight of these funds.

LET'S TAKE BACK OUR CITY!

Communities all around the state are grappling with
similar issues. For example, Anderson passed a similar
measure in the last election cycle with the resulting
decrease in crime.

It is important that you vote on this issue to be a voice
in these critical decisions that impact the quality of life
for you and yours.

The status quo is not a solution. Vote for public safety.
"YES" ON MEASURES D AND E.

/s/ Missy McArthur, Mayor, City of Redding
/s/ Brent Weaver, Vice-Mayor City of Redding
/s/ Kristen Schreder, Council Member, City of Redding
/s/ Francie Sullivan, Council Member, City of Redding

If you erroneously believe that the passage of Measure
D will guarantee funding for public safety, think again!
The sales tax from this measure will go directly into
the City's general fund thereby allowing staff and
council to spend as they see fit for the next ten years.
This is supported by the Impartial Analysis written by
the City Attorney which states, "The City would not be
bound to use the tax monies for any special purpose or
for any particular services, projects, facilities or
programs"!

So who will hold their feet to the fire once we open our
wallets?

The general fund budget in 2007-2008 was 72.8
million with 172 police personnel.

The general fund budget in 2016-2017 is 73.5
million with 131 police personnel.

The above would indicate the money is being spent on
unfunded and underfunded pension costs, and not on
police personnel.

Looking at how existing tax revenue is being spent and
adjusting salary packages to better reflect the
economy of our community could go a long way
toward solving the public safety issue. We do not need
to pay more taxes. We need better budgeting.

Vote no on Measure D!

/s/ Gary Cadd, Council Member

Arguments and replies are the opinions of the authors. We print them exactly as submitted, including errors.

Argument against Measure D

Rebuttal

Reply to argument against Measure D

The real purpose for the V2 cent sales tax increase
will be to cover the increasing costs of unfunded
and under funded pensions . It is estimated roughly
$110 million will be generated by this tax! There is no
guarantee this tax will be used for the Redding Police
Department. What would prevent future councils from
redirecting these funds elsewhere? It only takes three
members of the Redding City Council to make that
change. Taxing the public more does not solve the crime
problem in Redding. The City's top priority should be
public safety. This council had the opportunity to fund
the Redding Police Department but chose to spend
general fund money in other areas. In the last four years.
Council could have hired back most, if not all, of the
police officers and CSOs that we lost in the great
recession.

The general fund budget in 2007-2008 was 72.8
million with 172 police personnel.

The general fund budget in 2016-2017 is 73.5
million with 131 police personnel.

This would indicate there are adequate reserves in the
budget to fund the Police Department without a new tax.
Council is also contributing more money each year to
the CalPERS and PARS Retirement programs. As of June
30, 2014, unfunded pension liability surpassed $213
million, yet Council continues to give employee
raises. It is time for the Redding City Council to move
forward and staff the Redding Police Department today.
This can be done, to a great extent, with the current
budget we have. The lack of direction from this council is
unacceptable. Let's not increase the size of
government, but rather hold it accountable. This
council has asked the citizens of Redding for our
trust but can we trust them into the future? Vote
no on Measure D!

/s/ Gary Cadd, Council Member

Measure D, with its companion Measure E, ensures
monies generated will be spent for public safety. A
citizens' oversight committee has already been
established to guarantee transparency and financial
accountability. (See Record Searchlight editorial of
August 7.) Four of YOUR five City Council members,
including Mayor Missy McArthur, Vice Mayor Brent
Weaver, Mayor Pro Tern Kristen Schreder, and Mayor
Emeritus Francie Sullivan have signed the argument
FOR Measures D and E.

The lone council member, Gary Cadd, who wrote the
argument against is running for re-election on the usual
anti-tax, don't-trust-government, fear-generating
rhetoric, and yet he was quoted as saying if re-elected
he wants to put forth his OWN tax measure next Spring.
Go figure.

If you are tired of the crime situation as it is now in our
community, vote "YES!" on Measures D and E.

/s/ Missy McArthur, Mayor of Redding
/s/ Brent Weaver, Vice Mayor of Redding
/s/ Kristen Schreder, Mayor ProTem
/s/ Francie Sullivan, Mayor Emeritus

Impartial analysis Measure D

Fiscal analysis Measure D

Voter approval of this measure would amend the
Redding Municipal Code by adding a transactions and
use tax for a period of ten years on the sale and/or use
of all tangible personal property sold at retail in the
City of Redding, at the rate of one-half cent for every
dollar spent (or one-half of one percent). The tax is
commonly referred to as a “sales tax."

The measure, which was placed on the ballot by the
Redding City Council, proposes a general tax from
which the revenue would be placed in the City's
general fund. The City would not be bound to use the
tax monies for any special purpose or for any particular
services, projects, facilities, or programs. As such, this
ballot measure proposes a “general tax" rather than a
“special tax" and requires a simple majority vote for
adoption.

The proposed tax would be administered by the
California State Board of Equalization at the same time
and in the same manner as the City's existing sales tax.
Collection of the tax would begin on April 1, 2017. The
tax would automatically terminate in ten years, unless
extended by the voters in a future election.

Measure D is a ballot measure that, if approved by
a majority of voters, would amend the City of
Redding Municipal Code to enact a one-half of
one percent (0.5 percent) transactions and use
tax on certain retail transactions within the City of
Redding for a period of ten years. The measure is
a “general" tax, which means the City of Redding
may use the tax revenues for any governmental
purpose including improving police protection, jail
space, mental health services, fire protection, and
related public safety services.

I	estimate that Measure D will generate
approximately $11 million annually. The amount
of revenue may increase or decrease each year
over the ten-year period due to inflation, general
economic conditions, population growth, or other
factors. However, the actual sales tax rate of 0.5
percent cannot be increased by the City Council
during the ten-year period. The sales tax will
automatically terminate after ten years.

/s/ Dennice Maxwell

State and local tax on retail sales in Redding is
currently 7.5% of the purchase price, but will decrease
to 7.25% at the end of 2016. This measure authorizes
a 0.50% transactions and use tax. Because the
collection of the tax would not begin until April 1,
2017, the measure would have the effect of increasing
the total sales tax rate in Redding from 7.25% to
7.75%.

Finance Director

A "yes" vote is a vote in favor of authorizing the
transactions and use tax for a period of ten years. A
"no" vote is a vote against authorizing the transactions
and use tax.

/s/ Barry E. DeWalt
City Attorney

The above statement is an impartial analysis of
Measure D. If you desire a copy of the measure, please
call the Redding City Clerk's office at (530) 225-4044
and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you. You may
also view a copy of the measure online at

http://tinyurl.com/reddingd-e

Arguments and replies are the opinions of the authors. We print them exactly as submitted, including errors.

Argument for Measure E

Rebuttal

Reply to argument for Measure E

YES FOR FISCAL ACCOUNTABILITY!

This companion Measure provides guidance for public
safety funds raised through Measure D. We trust the
citizens to help us implement these Measures, so there
will be a citizens' oversight committee to ensure
transparency and financial accountability. There will be
a sunset of 10 years for both Measures.

In his Impartial Analysis of Measure E, the City Attorney
has put the voters of Redding on notice stating that
voting for Measure E does not legally bind the Council
as to how the sales tax is spent!

He says, "The vote is not in any manner legally
controlling on the City Council's use of the sales tax
proceeds".

YES FOR SAFE HOMES AND STREETS NOW!

We want Redding to be safe for our kids and grandkids;
this measure will increase police and fire services as well
as provide more jail space to keep criminals off our
streets by working collaboratively with Shasta County on
this and other issues, such as mental illness and
substance abuse.

OTHER CITIES HAVE POSITIVE RESULTS!

Communities all around the state are tackling their
public safety issues with similar measures. The cities of
Red Bluff, Corning, and Anderson have recently adopted
public safety sales tax measures, resulting in a decrease
in crime.

YES ON MEASURES D AND E!

There is no greater purpose in local government than
keeping people safe. Measures D and E will make
Redding safer at a relatively small cost to taxpayers.

/s/ Missy McArthur, Mayor of Redding
/s/ Brent Weaver, Vice Mayor of Redding
/s/ Kristen Schreder, Mayor ProTem
/s/ Francie Sullivan, Mayor Emeritus

In addition, the City's Finance Director writes that
Measure E is actually an "advisory question" posed to
the voters.

Measure E asks, "Should the additional revenue be used
to augment police protection, jail space, mental health,
fire protection, and related public safety services?"

Related Public Safety Services - Unfunded and
Underfunded Pensions Costs. The pension cost in 2008-
2009 for Public Safety was 28.8% of salary. In 2016-
2017 that cost has escalated to 49.4% of salary;
$100,000 salary equals a $49,400 pension payment,
and that will increase to over 52.0% in 2017-2018.

If Measure E passes, $110 million in ten years will be
subject to the spending whims of five city council
elections and an unknown number of new council
members. Considering the quotes above, we see just
how open ended the sales tax really is.

Vote NO on Measure E!

/s/ Gary Cadd, Council Member

Arguments and replies are the opinions of the authors. We print them exactly as submitted, including errors.

Argument against Measure E

Rebuttal

Reply to argument against Measure E

The provisions of Measure E, if passed are a hodgepodge
of services that are not well defined. Since when did
issues relating to jail space and mental health services
change from county responsibilities to City of Redding
responsibilities? What is meant by "related public safety
services"? This open-ended description is not specific
and invites a wild range of spending opportunities at the
whim of current and future councils over the course of the
next 10 years. In addition, there is no provision in this
measure to retain an oversight committee to ensure
compliance and transparency on how this $110 million is
spent.

Measure E is the companion to Measure D. It spells out
how the monies generated will be spent for public
safety, complete with citizens' oversight. Like Measures
A and B a few years ago, which were acted upon by your
city council 100%, your current City Council will do the
same. Once the public has spoken by ballot voting, the
city council listens. Four of your five council members
have written in favor of these Measures: the one outlier
is running for re-election, and hoping that being a
contrarian will give him a statistical advantage over his
opposition.

Support public safety by voting "YES!" on Measures D
and E.

Is this tax an avenue of income to be used to pay down
the unfunded and under-funded pension programs ($213
million as of June 30, 2014)? In the 2014-15 budget, the
City Council already approved funding to add 10
apprentice fire fighters for the Fire Department. Was this
so inadequate that we now need to include more money
for fire protection if this new tax is approved? In addition,
the general fund for 2016-2017 has the money in it to
increase staffing of the Redding Police Department today
without a new tax if public safety is made the priority.

/s/ Missy McArthur, Mayor of Redding
/s/ Brent Weaver, Vice Mayor of Redding
/s/ Kristen Schreder, Mayor ProTem
/s/ Francie Sullivan, Mayor Emeritus

These and other issues have not been adequately
addressed so the public can make an informed decision
before they approve this measure. Vote NO on Measure
E!

/s/ Gary Cadd, Council Member

Impartial analysis Measure E

Fiscal analysis Measure E

Measure E is an advisory measure concerning the
recommended expenditures of new City of Redding
sales tax revenue if Measure D, which is on this ballot,
is approved by a majority of voters.

Measure E does not increase taxes. Rather, Measure E
allows voters within the City of Redding to voice their
opinions of whether they believe the City should
spend any additional sales tax revenue generated by
the new tax proposed by Measure D, if approved, to
augment police protection, jail space, mental health
services, fire protection, and related public safety
services.

An advisory vote is an indication of general voter
opinion regarding the ballot proposal. While the
opinion expressed through the votes on this advisory
measure is of interest to the Redding City Council, the
vote is not in any manner legally controlling on the
City Council's use of the sales tax proceeds. If a
majority of the voters vote "yes" on this measure, it
will be an indication to the City Council of how voters
believe the revenue should be spent.

Measure E is an advisory measure to the tax
measure (Measure D). The advisory measure is an
advisory question that asks voters the following; If
the voters of the City of Redding approve a one-half
of one percent (0.5 percent) limited term
transactions and use tax increase, should the
additional revenue be used to augment police
protection, jail space, mental health services, fire
protection, and related public safety services?

I estimate that the additional revenue earned from
a one-half of one percent (0.5 percent) limited term
transactions and use tax increase will be
approximately $11 million annually.

/s/Dennice Maxwell
Finance Director

/s/ Barry E. DeWalt
City Attorney

The above statement is an impartial analysis of
Measure E. If you desire a copy of the measure,
please call the Redding City Clerk's office at (530)
225-4044 and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you.
You may also view a copy of the measure online at
http://tinyurl.com/reddingd-e

Be an Election Officer

Serve on the front lines of democracy

Election Officer volunteers needed on Election Day

Who can serve as an Election Officer?

•	Any registered California voter

•	Eligible high school students

What does an Election Officer do?

•	Sets up and closes a poll site

•	Helps voters understand their rights

•	Protects ballots and voting equipment

Why serve as an Election Officer?

•	Get involved in the democratic process

•	Contribute to your community

•	Earn extra money:

$125 for Inspectors

$100 for Assistant Inspectors and Clerks

Sign up today

H Call the Elections Department at 530-225-5730

0 Complete the online application under the Volunteer tab
www.elections.co.shasta.ca.us

8 / Shasta County - Presidential General Section - November 8, 2016