Moreland School District
Measure G
Parcel Tax - 2/3 Approval Required

Ballot Question

To maintain quality education at our neighborhood elementary and middle schools
by attracting and retaining quality teachers, strengthening strong reading, math and
science, maintaining music and art programs, keeping school libraries open, class
sizes small and campuses clean and safe, shall Moreland School District renew its
expiring school parcel tax at $142 per year for eight years, with an exemption for
seniors, a citizens' oversight committee, no money for administrator salaries, and
every dollar benefiting Moreland schools?

Impartial analysis / Proposal

A school district may levy a qualified special tax upon approval by two-thirds of the
votes cast on a measure pursuant to section 4 of article XIIIA of the California
Constitution and sections 50075 etseq. of the California Government Code.

The Board of Trustees (Board) for the Moreland School District (District) proposes
renewing and increasing an existing parcel tax. If approved, the renewed parcel tax
will commence on July 1, 2017 and expire on June 30, 2025 and will be levied in the
amount of $142 per parcel per year. The existing parcel tax, which will expire on
June 30, 2017, is levied at $95 per parcel per year.

An exemption from the proposed tax is available for any parcel that is an owner-
occupied, single-family residence for (1) a person 65 years or older; (2) a person
receiving Supplemental Security Income for a disability regardless of age; or (3) a
person receiving Social Security

Disability benefits whose yearly income does not exceed 250 percent of the 2012
federal poverty guidelines issued by the United States Department of Health and
Human Services. The Measure states that persons currently exempted from the
expiring parcel tax shall automatically be exempted from the renewed parcel tax
without a new application.

State law requires the District to state the specific purposes for which the tax
proceeds will be used and only spend the proceeds of the tax for these purposes.
The stated purposes of the tax proposed are to: (1) attract and retain high-quality
teachers; (2) strengthen strong, innovative reading, math, and science programs; (3)
maintain music, visual and performing arts programs; (4) keep school libraries open;
and (5) maintain clean and safe school properties. The Measure states that revenue
generated by the tax will not be used for District administrators ' salaries, benefits, or
pensions.

The District is required by law to provide additional accountability measures for the
proceeds. These measures include: (1) depositing the proceeds into a fund that is
separate and apart from other District funds; and (2) providing an annual written
report to the Board stating the amount of funds collected and expended, and the
status of any project authorized to be funded from the tax proceeds. The Board will

maintain its existing Citizens' Oversight Committee to provide oversight as to
expenditures of parcel tax revenues.

Measure G was placed on the ballot by the Board.

A "yes" vote is a vote to approve a parcel tax of $142 per parcel on parcels within the
District for eight years commencing on July 1, 2017.

A "no" vote is a vote to not approve a parcel tax of $142 per parcel on parcels within
the District for eight years commencing on July 1,2017.

Orry P. Korb, County Counsel

Arguments FOR

Measure G extends an existing measure to maintain the high quality of education
students receive in our local schools by protecting core academic programs in math,
science, technology, and reading, and helping to attract and retain the highest quality
teachers to educate our students.

Moreland schools shine as models of educational excellence. Our schools are part of
what make our neighborhoods special and our excellent teachers and rigorous math,
science and reading curriculum have prepared generations of students to succeed.
This measure is critical to help us retain and attract outstanding teachers and
continue to ensure that our students are fully prepared for their bright futures.

Measure G is a local measure. All funds generated will stay here, for Moreland
students. This money cannot be taken away by the State.

Specifically, Measure G will:

•	Continue funding for core programs in math, science, technology, arts and reading

•	Help attract and retain high quality teachers

•	Provide funds for innovative science education programs

•	Keep school libraries open

•	Maintain smaller class sizes in kindergarten through 8th grade

•	Maintain funding for integrated classroom technology

Measure G is a modest, thoughtful proposal supported by parents, teachers and
community leaders because it protects core academics and will help to ensure that
our children are prepared to compete in the global economy.

Measure G provides an exemption for senior citizens, and includes an independent
citizens' oversight committee to ensure funds are spent as promised. Measure G
funds cannot be spent on administrator's salaries.

Great schools make great communities by protecting our property values and
keeping our neighborhoods strong and prosperous. Measure G is a wise investment
that will protect our local schools.

Join neighbors, parents, teachers and local community leaders to support our local
schools. PLEASE, VOTE YES on G.

www.yesonmoreland.com

/s/ Heather E. Sutton

Moreland School Board President, Parent

Is/ Shveta Bagade

H&SC President, Latimer; H&SC Treasurer, MMS; Prospect Parent
/s/ Carl Guardino

President & CEO/Silicon Valley Leadership Group
/s/ Manny Barbara

Vice President, Silicon Valley Education Foundation
Is/ Robert Varich

Trustee, Moreland School District

Replies to Arguments FOR

This latest parcel tax tries to use the state budget crisis to grab unearned money.
Moreland School District wants to "extend" (read: raise) the 2009 parcel tax of $95
per year for another 8 years, a year before its scheduled expiration of 2017—when
we thought our family budgets would finally be getting a reprieve.

And they want to hike it to $142 per parcel, to replace the $95 per parcel tax from
2009.

Have they earned a 50% tax increase, to $142 per parcel?

Let's look at student test scores for English learners setting annual growth targets in
learning English:

2011-	12 school year results: 64.4%

2012-	13: 62.4%

2013-	14: 59.5%

(Source: Education Data Partnership,

www.Ed-Data. org/district/Santa-Clara/Moreland

That's a steady decline!

Should we voters—the customer—reward worsening scores with a pay increase?

If you answered "no," we encourage you to vote NO on Measure G.

The statewide average expense per student is $8,788/year, versus Moreland School
District's $9,226—105% above average. Yet, they want more of your hard-earned
money to pad their salaries and fat pension plans.

The measure says that none of the funds will be used for administration. But, funds
generated outside of this parcel tax can be used for administration expenses without
limits. So, that is really an empty promise. Do not be fooled.

Please tell Moreland School District's board to be financially responsible, by
voting NO on G.

For more information, please visit us at:
www. SVTaxpayers. org/2016-moreland-parcel-tax.

Is/ Mark W. A. Hinkle

President: Silicon Valley Taxpayers Association

— Santa Clara County Registrar of Voters

Arguments AGAINST

This latest parcel tax from Moreland School District tries to use the state budget
crisis to grab unearned money. The district wants to "extend" (read: increase) the
2009 parcel tax of $95 per year for another 8 years, a year before its scheduled end
in 2017 - when we were expecting our family budgets to get that boost.

And they want an increase to $142 per parcel to replace the $95 per parcel tax from
2009.

Have they earned a 50% tax increase, to $142 per parcel?

Let's look at the student test scores for English learners making annual growth
targets in learning English:

2011-	12 school year results: 64.4%

2012-	13 school year results: 62.4%

2013-	14 school year results: 59.5%

(Source: Education Data Partnership,
www.Ed-Data.org/district/Santa-Clara/Moreland)

That's a steady decline!

Should we, the voters, reward declining scores with a pay increase?

If you answered "no," we encourage you to vote NO on Measure G.

The statewide average expense per student is $8.788/year, versus Moreland School
District's $9,226. or 105% above average. Yet, they want more of your hard-earned
money to pad their salaries and fat pension plans.

The measure says that none of the funds will be used for administration. But, funds
generated outside of this parcel tax can be used for administration expenses without
limits. So, that is really an empty promise. Do not be fooled.

Here are the latest average teacher salaries:

2014-15: Salary = $73,292 | Statewide average = $74,090
2013-14: Salary = $73,062 j Statewide average = $74,090
2012-13: Salary = $71,230 j Statewide average = $69,435

Plus teachers get a super generous benefits package. Their "family plan" costs us
$18,396/year per teacher in benefits.

Tell Moreland School District's board to be financially responsible, by voting NO on
G.

For more information please visit us at:
www.SVTaxpayers.org/2016-moreland-parcel-tax.

Is/ Mark W.A. Hinkle

President: Silicon Valley Taxpayers Association

— Santa Clara County Registrar of Voters

Replies to Arguments AGAINST

As longtime Moreland residents, leaders, and community members - we know the
facts and we're voting YES on Measure G. Good schools educate our children and
protect our property values and local economy.

The out-of-town opponents of Measure G are misleading voters with inaccurate,
untruthful statements. Don’t be deceived.

Moreland schools provide an excellent education and prepare students for college
and careers. One of the reasons we live here is because of our great schools.
Meeting a high standard of excellence equally across all our neighborhoods requires
resources.

Measure G will allow us to attract and retain high quality teachers and fund essential
programs in math, science, reading and technology. These core courses are critical
as we prepare Moreland students for a successful future. Measure G will also allow
our teachers to offer innovative courses and help the District keep our school
libraries open longer and allow us to keep our school campuses clean and safe.

Measure G can only be used for for programs to benefit students, NOT
administrators' salaries.

Measure G funds must stay local and cannot be taken away by the

State. Independent citizens' oversight committee and mandatory performance and

financial audits are required to ensure that local taxpayers are protected.

Measure G is a modest measure to make sure Moreland Schools continue to provide
a great education and our neighborhoods remain strong.

Join local community leaders and residents, please Vote YES on Measure G to
protect Moreland schools. For more information, visit www.yesonmoreland.com

/s/ Charles "Chappie" Jones

City of San Jose, District 1, Councilmember

/s/ Brenton Lee

Sports in Moreland Chair, Parent

Is/ Elizabeth Gibbons

Vice Mayor of the City of Campbell

Is/ Johann Garcia

Moreland Education Foundation President, Parent
Is/ Rosemary Kamei

Santa Clara County Office of Education Board Member and resident

— Santa Clara County Registrar of Voters

Proposed legislation

INTRODUCTION AND PURPOSE

To continue funding for core programs in math, science and reading, provide local
reliable funding for local schools that cannot be taken by the State, attract and retain
high-quality teachers, maintain innovative science programs, maintain school
libraries, keep class sizes small, purchase textbooks and classroom materials,
preserve programs in art, music and performing arts, integrate technology to
enhance instruction in math and science and maintain clean and safe school
properties and grounds, with no proceeds used for administrators' salaries, benefits
and pensions, the Moreland School District ("District") proposes to renew and extend
its existing education and local control parcel tax for a period of eight years from its
current expiration date (June 30, 2017), starting on July 1,2017 at a rate of $142 per
parcel per year, with an exemption available for senior citizens and certain disabled
persons, and to implement accountability measures, including citizen oversight, to
ensure the funds are used to help:

•	Attract and retain high-quality teachers;

•	Strengthen strong, innovative reading, math and science programs;

•	Maintain music, visual and performing arts programs;

•	Keep school libraries open; and

•	Maintain clean and safe school properties.

The proceeds of the parcel tax shall be deposited into a separate account created by
the District.

DEFINITION OF "PARCEL"

For purposes of the high quality education parcel tax, the term "Parcel" means any
parcel of land which lies wholly or partially within the boundaries of the Moreland
School District, that receives a separate tax bill for valorem property taxes from
the Santa Clara County Assessor/ Tax Collector, as applicable. All property that is
otherwise exempt from or upon which are levied no ad valorem property taxes in any
year shall also be exempt from the education and local control parcel tax in such
year.

For purposes of this education and local control parcel tax, any such "Parcels" which
are (i) contiguous, and (ii) used solely for owner-occupied, single-family residential
purposes, and (iii) held under identical ownership may, by submitting to the District
an application of the owners thereof by June 15 of any year, be treated as a single
"parcel" for purposes of the levy of the high quality education and local control parcel
tax.

EXEMPTION FOR SENIORS AND SSI RECIPIENTS

Pursuant to California Government Code Section 50079 (b)(1), any owner of a
Parcel used solely for owner-occupied, single-family residential purposes and who
are either (a) 65 years of age or older on or before June 30 of the fiscal year
immediately preceding the year in which the tax would apply, or (b) persons
receiving Supplemental Security Income for a disability, regardless of age, or (c)
receiving Social Security Disability Insurance benefits, regardless of age, whose
yearly income does not exceed 250 percent of the 2012 federal poverty guidelines
issued by the United States Department of Health and Human Services, may obtain
an exemption from the parcel tax by submitting an application therefore, by June 15
of any year, to the District.

Persons who are owners of Parcels used solely for owner-occupied, single-family
residential purposes and currently exempted from the District's expiring Measure A
parcel tax shall automatically be exempted from this Measure without having to file a
new application.

The District may establish administrative procedures to periodically verify the
continuance of any previously granted exemption.

With respect to all general property tax matters within its jurisdiction, the Santa Clara
County Treasurer and Tax Collector or other appropriate county tax officials, shall

make all final determinations of tax exemption or relief for any reason, and that
decision shall be final and binding. With respect to matters specific to the levy of the
high quality education and local control parcel tax, including any exemptions and the
classification of property for purposes of calculating the tax, the decisions of the
District shall be final and binding.

REDUCTION IN TAX IF RESULT IS LESS OTHER GOVERNMENT SUPPORT

The collection of the education and local control parcel tax is not intended to
decrease or offset any increase in local, state or federal government revenue
sources that would otherwise be available to the District during the period of the
parcel tax. In the event that the levy and collection does have such an effect, the
District may cease the levy or shall reduce the parcel tax to the extent that such
action would restore the amount of the decrease or offset in other revenues.

ACCOUNTABILITY MEASURES

In accordance with the requirements of California Government Code Sections
50075.1 and 50075.3, the following accountability measures, among others, shall
apply to the parcel tax levied in accordance with this Measure: (a) the specific
purposes of the parcel tax shall be those purposes identified above; (b) the proceeds
of the parcel tax shall be applied only to those specific purposes identified above; (c)
a separate, special account shall be created into which the proceeds of the
education and local control parcel tax must be deposited; and (d) an annual written
report shall be made to the Board of Trustees of the District showing (i) the amount
of funds collected and expended from the proceeds of the high quality education and
local control parcel tax and (ii) the status of any projects or programs required or
authorized to be funded from the proceeds of the parcel tax, as identified above. In
addition to the accountability measures required by law, the District will maintain its
existing Citizens' Oversight Committee to provide oversight as to the expenditure of
parcel tax revenues.