Davis Joint Unified School District,
California, Parcel Tax, Measure H
(November 2016)

Ballot question

The following question appeared on the ballot:111

To provide outstanding academics in math, science, reading, writing, instructional
technology and programs in athletics, arts and music; provide high quality teachers;
limit class sizes; and support student health and safety; shall the Davis Joint Unified
School District replace its expiring parcel taxes with a single eight-year parcel tax of
$620/year, raising approximately $9.5 million/year, adjusted for inflation; with senior
and disability exemptions; with citizens oversight; for the exclusive use of Davis
schools?121

Impartial analysis

The following impartial analysis of the measure was prepared by the office of the Solano
County Counsel:

// Measure H, a Davis Joint Unified School District ("District") special parcel tax
measure, seeks voter approval to authorize the District to levy an annual special
parcel tax in the amount of $620 per year on each parcel of taxable real property for a
period of eight years, beginning 2017-18 tax year. The District’s voters previously
authorized Measures C and E which will expire at the end of the 2016-17 tax year. If
approved, this measure will replace Measures C and E. The special parcel tax shall be
adjusted annually commencing with the 2018-19 tax year for inflation in the manner
set out in the measure.

A school district has the authority to levy special taxes upon approval by two-thirds
of the votes cast on the special tax proposal. (See Cal. Const. Art. XIII A, § 4; Art.

XIII C, §2; Cal. Gov’t Code §§ 50075-50077, 50079, & 53722.) If two-thirds of the
qualified electors voting on this measure vote for approval, a special parcel tax will
be imposed annually for eight years at the rate described above. The tax will be
collected by the County Tax Collectors of the Counties of Yolo and Solano at the
same time and in the same manner as ad valorem property taxes are collected.

Upon application to the District, an exemption from tax assessment may be granted to
any owner of a parcel who occupies the parcel as a principal residence for each tax
year who is: aged 65 years and over; receiving Supplement Security Income for a

disability, regardless of age; or receiving Social Security Disability Insurance
benefits, regardless of age, with a yearly income below a certain amount.

Applications for such exemptions must be made and delivered to the District in
accordance with the process established by the Davis Joint Unified School District
Governing Board (’’Board”), or its designee.

If two-thirds of the qualified electors voting on this measure vote for approval, the
allocation of the funding revenue will be used for the specific purposes set forth in
the full text of the measure printed in this sample ballot. These purposes include, but
are not limited to, providing outstanding academics in math, science, reading,
writing, instructional technology and programs in athletics, arts and music; providing
high quality teachers; limiting class sizes; and supporting student health and safety.
Proceeds may not be used for any nonspecified purposes. The measure further
provides that the District’s Board shall receive an annual written report detailing the
funds collected and expended and the status of any project. The District will appoint a
citizens’ oversight committee to provide oversight of the revenue expenditures.

If two-thirds of the qualified electors voting on this measure do not vote for approval,
the measure will fail, and the District will not be authorized to levy the special tax.

This measure is placed on the ballot by the governing board of the District131
—Solano County Counsel111

ORDINANCE 16-6

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF WEST SACRAMENTO
IMPOSING A TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX TO BE
ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION

Section 1. TITLE. This ordinance shall be known as the West Sacramento Transactions
and Use Tax Ordinance. The City of West Sacramento hereinafter shall be called ''City.'1 This
ordinance shall be applicable in the incorporated territory of the City.

Section 2. OPERATIVE DATE. "Operative Date" means the first day of the first calendar
quarter commencing more than 110 days after the adoption of this ordinance, the date of such
adoption being as set forth below.

Section 3. PURPOSE. This ordinance is adopted to achieve the following, among other
purposes, and directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish those
purposes:

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the provisions of Part 1.6
(commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code and Section
7285.9 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 which authorizes the City to adopt this tax ordinance which shall
be operative if a majority of the electors voting do the measure vote to approve the imposition of
the tax at an election called for that purpose,

B.	To adopt a. retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates provisions
identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California insofar as those
provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code,

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax and provides a
measure therefore that can be administered and collected by the State Board of Equalization in
a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and requires the least possible deviation
from, the existing statutory and administrative procedures followed by the State Board of
Equalization in administering and collecting the California State Sales and Use Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be administered in a
manner that will be, to the greatest degree possible, consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting the transactions
and use taxes, and at the same time, minimize the burden of record keeping upon persons subject
to taxation under the provisions of this ordinance.

Section 4. CONTRACT WITH STATE. Prior to the operative date, the City shall contract
with the State Board of Equalization to perform all functions Incident to the administration and
operation of this transactions and use tax ordinance; provided, that if the City shall not have
contracted with the State Board of Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall nevertheless
so contract and in such a case the operative date shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter
following the execution of such a contract.

Section 5. TRANSACTIONS TAX RATE. For the privilege of selling tangible personal
property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated territory of the City
at the rate of .25% of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible personal
property sold at retail in said territory on and after the operative date of this ordinance.

Section 6. PLACE OF SALE. For the purposes of this ordinance, all retail sales are
consummated at the place of business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold
is delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for

delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery
charges, when such charges are subject to the state sales and use tax, regardless of the place
to which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the State
or has more than one place of business, the place or places at which the retail sales are
consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by
the State Board of Equalization.

Section 7. USE TAX RATE. An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other
consumption in the City of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on and after the
operative date of this ordinance for storage, use or other consumption in said territory at the rate
of .25% of the sales price of the property. The sales price shall include delivery charges when
such charges are subject to state safes or use tax regardless of the place to which delivery is
made.

Section 8. ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW. Except as otherwise provided
in this ordinance and except insofar as they are inconsistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing with
Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a
part of this ordinance as though fully set forth herein.

Section 9. LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF STATE LAW AND COLLECTION OF USE
TAXES. In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing agency,
the name of this City shall be substituted therefor. However, the substitution shai! not be made

when:

1.	The word "State" is used as a part of the title of the State Controller, State
Treasurer, State Victim Compensation & Government Claims Board, State Board of Equalization,
State Treasury, or the Constitution of the State of California;

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against
this City or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by or against the State Board of
Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the administration or operation of this
Ordinance,

3,	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sections referring
to the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the result of the substitution would be

to:

a,	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales, storage,
use or other consumption of tangible personal property which would not otherwise be exempt
from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other consumption remain subject to tax by the
State under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other
consumption of tangible personal property which would not be subject to tax by the state under
the said provision of that code.

4.	in Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711, 6715,
6737, 6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code. "

Ordinance 16-6
Page 3

B.	The word "City" shall be substituted for the word "State" in the phrase "retailer
engaged in business in this State" in Section 6203 and in the definition of that phrase in Section
6203.

Section 10. PERMIT NOT REQUIRED. If a seller's permit has been issued to a retailer under
Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional transactor's permit shall not be
required by this ordinance.

Section 11. EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the use
tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or by any City, City
and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sates and Use Tax Law or
the amount of any state-administered transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax the
gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum products, to
operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the county in which the sale is
made and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or
property under the authority of the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the City which is shipped to a point
outside the City, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by the retailer or his
agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at such point. For the
purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point outside the City shall be satisfied:

a, With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject to
registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle
Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and
undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840} of the
Vehicle Code by registration to an cut-of-City address and by a declaration under penalty of
perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that such address is, in fact, his or her principal place of
residence; and

b. With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of
business out-of-City and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, that the vehicle
will be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property If the seller is obligated to furnish the
property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this
ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such
property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the property for an amount
fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5,	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, the sale or
-lease -of-ta ng lb I e-pers o n a hp rope rty-s h al hbe^deemedmotlo^bembligated^pimrahHo a contractor

lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or (ease has the unconditional right
to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

Ordinance 16-6
Page 4

C.	There are exempted from the use tax Imposed by this ordinance, the storage,
use or other consumption in this City of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a transactions
tax under any state-administered transactions and use tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of aircraft and
used or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as
common carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under a certificate of public
convenience and necessity Issued pursuant to the laws of this State, the United States, or any
foreign government. This exemption is in addition to the exemptions provided in Sections 6366
and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of California,

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price
pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this ordinance,

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the tangible
personal property arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such property for any
period of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by a
lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance,

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, storage, use,
or other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power over, tangible personal
property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time
for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract
or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided In subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged In business In the
City shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible personal property,
unless the retailer ships or delivers the property into the City or participates within the City in
making the sale of the property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving the order,- either
directly or indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer in the City or through any representative,
agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the City under the authority of the retailer.

7.	"A retailer engaged In business in the City" shall also include any retailer of
any of the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with
Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411
of the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels registered under Division 3,5 {commencing
with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to collect use tax from any
purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the City.

D,	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit against that tax
any transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district imposing, or retailer
liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code
with respect to the sale to the person of the property the storage, use or other consumption of
which is subject to the use tax,

Section 12. AMENDMENTS. Ail amendments subsequent to the effective date of this
ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use
taxes and which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
taxation-Coderand-ail-amendments-te-Part-l76-and-Part-1r7of-Division-2-of-the-Revenue-and'
Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part of this ordinance, provided however, that no
such amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this ordinance.

Section 13. ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN. No injunction or writ of mandate or
other legal or equitable process shall Issue in any suit, action or proceeding in any court against
the State or the City, or against any officer of the State or the City, to prevent or enjoin the
collection under this ordinance, or Part 1,6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of
any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.

Section 14. SEVERABILITY. If any provision of this ordinance or the application thereof
to any person or circumstance Is held invalid, the remainder of the ordinance and the application
of such provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

Section 15, EFFECTIVE DATE. This ordinance relates to the levying and collecting of the
City transactions and use taxes and shall take effect immediately.

Section 16. TERMINATION DATE. The tax imposed by this ordinance shall continue to
be levied until this ordinance is repealed by the City of West Sacramento,

PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of West Sacramento, State of
California, on June 15, 2016, by the following vote:

AYES:	JOHANNESSEN,KRISTOFF,LEDESMA,SANDEEN

NOES:	NONE

ABSENT: cabaldon
ABSTAIN: NONE

ATTEST:

CODIFY

UNCODIFY V

RESOLUTION 16-51

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF WEST SACRAMENTO
CALLING A SPECIAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION TO BE HELD ON NOVEMBER 8, 2016,
FOR THE PURPOSES OF APPROVING AN ORDINANCE IMPOSING A ONE-QUARTER
PERCENT TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX FOR GENERAL COMMUNITY SERVICES
AND CITY INITIATIVES; REQUESTING THAT THE YOLO COUNTY BOARD OF
SUPERVISORS CONSOLIDATE THE ELECTION WITH THE STATEWIDE ELECTION;
AUTHORIZING THE MAYOR TO PREPARE A WRITTEN ARGUMENT IN SUPPORT OF
THE TAX MEASURE; AND DIRECTING THE CITY ATTORNEY TO PREPARE AN

WHEREAS, City general fund revenues are inadequate to fund general City services and
initiatives such as maintaining and repairing roads, building and maintaining bicycle and
pedestrian paths and trails, addressing homelessness and its impacts on the community,
providing access to education and career opportunities for youth, improving internet access
and utilizing available technology to enhance City services and operations, and other
community services desired by the residents of the City of West Sacramento.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the City Council of the City of West
Sacramento hereby resolves, declares, determines and orders as follows:

Section 1. The foregoing recitals are true and correct, and hereby incorporated
by reference.

Section 2. Pursuant to California Constitution Article Xlti C, section 2 and

Elections Code section 9222, the City Council of the City of West
Sacramento submits to the qualified voters of the City, the West
Sacramento General Services and Initiatives Tax Measure (the "Tax
Measure"), which if approved, would adopt a general transactions and
use tax, as authorized by Revenue and Taxation Code section 7285.9.
This Tax Measure shall be designated by letter by the Yolo County
Ejections Department. Pursuant to Election Code section 10400, et
seq,, the election for this Tax Measure is hereby called and shall be
considered with the regular election to be conducted on November 8,
2016,

Section 3. The Tax Measure to be presented to the voters shall be as set forth

below. This question requires the approval of a majority of qualified
electors’ casting votes:

MEASURE "________ To fund City services and initiatives such as Yes

repairing roads, building and maintaining blcycle/pedestrian
trails, reducing homelessness and its community impacts,
improving educational and career opportunities for youth, and
enhancing internet access and the use of smart technologies,
shall the City of West Sacramento enact a 1/4 percent
transactions and use tax (sales tax) raising approximately $3,3
million annually on an ongoing basis for general governmental
purposes?	................

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF THE MEASURE

Resolution 16-51
Page 2

Section 4.
Section 5,

Section 6.

Section 7,

a.

The ordinance authorizing the general tax to be approved by the voters
pursuant to Sections 2 and 3 of this resolution is set forth in full in
Exhibit A, attached hereto.

The City Clerk is authorized, instructed and directed to work with the
Yolo County Registrar of Voters, as needed, in order to properly and
[awfully conduct the election. The ballots to be used in the election shall
be in the form and content as required by law, The Yolo County
Registrar of Voters is authorized to canvass the return of the municipal
election. In ail Particulars not recited in this resolution, the election shall
be held and conducted as provided by law for holding municipal
elections.

The Board of Supervisors is requested to instruct its Registrar of Voters
to provide such services as may be necessary for the holding of the
consolidated election. The election shall be held in all respects as if
there were only one election. The City of West Sacramento recognizes
that the county will incur additional costs because of this consolidation
and agrees to reimburse the county for those costs. The City Manager
is hereby authorized and directed to expend the necessary funds to pay
for the City’s cost of placing the Tax Measure on the election ballot.
Such services provided by the county may include, but are not limited
to, the following:

® Publication of notices calling the election
a Publications of notices calling for ballot arguments
o	Provision of voter lists

*	Obtaining and staffing polling places

» Provision and delivery of precinct supplies
e Counting of ballots and certification of election
<* Other election activities authorized by law
® All aspects of election not specified above may be agreed upon
by the County Clerks and the City Manager

Pursuant to California Elections Code section 9282, on behalf of the
City Council, the Mayor Is hereby authorized to prepare a written
argument in favor of the proposed Tax Measure, not to exceed three
hundred (300) words each. At the Mayor's discretion, the arguments
may also be signed by members of the City Council or a bona fide
association of citizens, or by individual voters who are eligible to vote
on the Tax Measure . In the event that an argument is filed against
the Tax Measure, the Mayor Is also authorized to prepare rebuttal
arguments) on behalf of the City Council, which may also be signed
by members of the City Council or bona fide association of citizens,
or by individual voters who are eligible to vote on the Measure,

Pursuant to California Elections Code section 9280, the City Council
hereby directs the City Clerk to transmit a certified copy of the Tax
Measure to the City Attorney, The City Attorney shall prepare an
impartial analysis of the Tax Measure not to exceed five hundred

Resolution 16-51

Page 3	(500) words In length, showing the effect of the Tax Measure on the existing law and the operation of the Tax Measure, and transmit the impartial analyses to the Yolo County Registrar of Voters.
c.	Pursuant to California Election Code section 9265, when the City Clerk has selected the arguments for and against the Tax Measure, which will be printed and distributed to the voters, the City Clerk is directed to send copies of the arguments In favor of the Tax Measure to the authors of the arguments against, and copies of the arguments against to the authors of the arguments in favor.
Section 8.	The City Clerk Is directed to file certified copies of this resolution with the Board of Supervisors and the Registrar of Voters of the County of Yolo, together with the attached ballot measure.
Section 9.	The jurisdictional boundaries of the City of West Sacramento have not changed since the last General Municipal Election.
Section 10.	This resolution shall become effective immediately upon Its passage and adoption.

PASSED AND ADOPTED, this 15th day of June, 2016 by the following vote:

AYES:	JOHANNESSEN,KRISTOFF,LEDESMA,SANDEEN '

NOES:	NONE

ABSENT: CABALDON
ABSTAIN: NONE

ATTEST:	Chri^o^her L. Cabaldon, Mayor 1/

Kryss Rankin' City Clerk

Resolution 16-51
Page 4

EXHIBIT A

Ordinance Authorizing General Transaction and Use Tax

RESOLUTION 16-25

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF WEST SACRAMENTO
CALLING AN ELECTION AND REQUESTING THE YOLO COUNTY BOARD OF
SUPERVISORS TO PERMIT THE YOLO COUNTY CLERK TO RENDER SPECIFIED
SERVICES TO THE CITY RELATING TO THE CONDUCT OF A MUNICIPAL ELECTION TO
BE HELD IN THE CITY ON NOVEMBER 8, 2016 IN CONSOLIDATION WITH THE GENERAL

ELECTION

WHEREAS, under provisions of the laws relating to general law cities in the State of
California, a General Municipal Election shall be held on November 8, 2016; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the requirements of the laws of the State relating to General
Law Cities, there is called and ordered to be held in the City of West Sacramento CA, on
Tuesday, November 8, 2016, a General Municipal Election for the purpose of electing two
members of the City Council for the full term of four years, and one Mayor for a term of two
years; and

WHEREAS, the Clerk of Yolo County has traditionally provided the City of West
Sacramento with services necessary to conduct municipal elections and the Yolo County Clerk's
office has expertise in providing these services; and

WHEREAS, the Yolo County Board of Supervisors is hereby requested to permit the
County Clerk to render services as specified in Exhibit “A” attached herein; and

WHEREAS, the City has traditionally consolidated its election with the County and
requests to consolidate with the Statewide General Election on November 8, 2016,

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the City Council of the City of West
Sacramento that the Yolo County Board of Supervisors is requested to consolidate the
Municipal Election with the General Election, to authorize the County Clerk to provide the
services specified in Exhibit "A" and to provide that the County of Yolo shall be reimbursed for
services performed when the work is completed and upon presentation to the City of a properly
prepared bill; and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that each candidate is to pay $350 for the publication of
the optional Candidate's Statement, pursuant to Election Code Section 13306 and the Book of
Fees. If the candidate elects to have Spanish and/or Russian translation of his/her candidate
statement, an additional $350 will be charged for each. The limitation of the number of words
that a candidate may use in his/her Candidate Statement is 200 words,

PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of West Sacramento this 15th
day of June, 2016 by the following vote:

AYES;

NOES:

ABSENT:

ATTEST:

J 0HANNE S S EN,KRISTUFF,LEDESMA,SANDEEN
NONE
CABALDON



Christopher L. Cabaldon, Mayi

1 | •'C'—s

Kryss^ankih, City Clerk __

EXHIBIT "A" of Resolution 16-25

Services to be rendered by the Yolo County Clerk to the City of West Sacramento for the November 8,
2016 General Municipal Election:

a.	The publication of all required legal notices pertaining to the election and provide copy of
affidavit of publication to City.

b.	Verify nomination signatures.

c.	Provide copies of all precinct maps and additional maps the City requires.

d.	Provide one set of voter lists (precinct/street order) at the close of registration,

e.	Recruiting and training for precinct workers and securing polling places.

f.	Provide printer proof samples of all city ballot material in a timely manner to allow for any
changes prior to the final printing deadline.

g.	Encoding the ballots for computer count, providing a test run, appointing an Accuracy
and Logistics Board to certify computer programming for ballot tabulation, tabulating un-
official election results,

h.	Verification of absent voter ballot application signatures, and processing absent voter
pamphlets.

i.	Labeling of sample ballot pamphlets.

j.	Providing election supplies, including voting booths, tables, chairs, voting devices, flags
and other election-related items.

k.	Provide Statement of Vote pursuant to state law.

l.	Any other services reasonably required to conduct this election.

West Sacramento City Clerk, as the Chief Elections Official for the City of West Sacramento will conduct ail
aspects of election not specified above, including but not limited to;

a.	Issue and file candidates' nomination papers.

b.	Proof sample/official ballots,

c.	Prepare resolution canvassing votes to be adopted by Council.

d.	Serve as filing officer for all FPPC statements for city candidate and ballot measure
committees,

e.	Other services as required.