Oxnard, California, Wastewater
Rates Repeal, Measure M
(November 2016)

Text of measure

Ballot question

The following question appeared on the ballot:13

// Shall an ordinance be adopted repealing the City’s wastewater rates adopted
in January 2016 and returning to the rates previously in effect?13

Impartial analysis

The following impartial analysis of the measure was prepared by the office of the

Oxnard City Attorney:

Background: State law authorizes cities to provide sewer services, also known as
wastewater services, and to charge rates for such services. By State law, utility rates
may not exceed the cost of providing the utility service. The City provides such
wastewater services, and in 2015, the City used an expert consultant to conduct a
Cost of Services Study, which provided the basis for a five-year schedule of
wastewater rates. The rates were intended to produce enough funds to pay the
wastewater utility’s debts to its bondholders, for recommended facility
improvements, and for other operational costs to comply with State public health
permit requirements.

The City held community workshops to inform residents of the possible new rates.
The City also conducted a public hearing, as required by State law, to obtain the
residents’ feedback. The City Council adopted the new rates, which took effect in
March 2016, and were at or below the rates supported by the Cost of Services Study.

The	Measure: Measure “M”, if approved by the voters, repeals the City’s new

wastewater rates and reverts the rates to the levels they were before March 2016. A
legal question exists regarding whether an initiative measure can roll back wastewater
rates to a point that a utility would not be able to pay its bondholders and fund current
maintenance and operational expenses. The validity of Measure “M” is the subject of
a lawsuit regarding whether the Measure sets rates too low to cover the costs required
by State law. The Court decided that it will not determine these issues until after the

election, and the Court would only decide these issues if the Measure passes. Thus, it
is possible that the Measure will not take effect even if approved by the voters.

Measure “M” was placed on the ballot by a voter petition and would require a
majority of votes to become effective.

A “Yes” vote would rescind the wastewater rate schedule that took effect in March
2016, and the rates would revert to their prior levels.

A “No” vote would maintain the wastewater rate schedule that took effect in March
2016.^

—Oxnard City Attorney151

Impartial Analysis by City Attorney

Background: State law authorizes cities to provide sewer services, also known as wastewater services, and to charge rates for such services. By
State law, utility rates may not exceed the cost of providing the utility service. The City provides such wastewater services, and in 2015, the City
used an expert consultant to conduct a Cost of Services Study, which provided the basis for a five-year schedule of wastewater rates. The rates
were intended to produce enough funds to pay the wastewater utility's debts to its bondholders, for recommended facility improvements, and for
other operational costs to comply with State public health permit requirements.

The City held community workshops to inform residents of the possible new rates. The City also conducted a public hearing, as required by State
law, to obtain the residents' feedback. The City Council adopted the new rates, which took effect in March 2016, and were at or below the rates
supported by the Cost of Services Study.

The Measure: Measure “M”, if approved by the voters, repeals the City’s new wastewater rates and reverts the rates to the levels they were before
March 2016. A legal question exists regarding whether an initiative measure can roll back wastewater rates to a point that a utility would not be
able to pay its bondholders and fund current maintenance and operational expenses. The validity of Measure “M” is the subject of a lawsuit
regarding whether the Measure sets rates too low to cover the costs required by State law. The Court decided that it will not determine these
issues until after the election, and the Court would only decide these issues if the Measure passes. Thus, it is possible that the Measure will not
take effect even if approved by the voters.

Measure “M” was placed on the ballot by a voter petition and would require a majority of votes to become effective.

A “Yes” vote would rescind the wastewater rate schedule that took effect in March 2016, and the rates would revert to their prior levels.

A “No” vote would maintain the wastewater rate schedule that took effect in March 2016.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure “M”. If you desire a copy of the Measure “M”, please call the elections official’s office at
(805) 385-7803 and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you.

Argument in Favor of Measure M

Vote YES on Measure M to OVERTURN the City Council’s 87% sewer rate increase!

Last January, the Oxnard City Council voted for a massive sewer rate hike that would raise our household Utility Bills by an average of $326 a year
- and later filed a lawsuit to prevent you from being able to vote on this.

Aaron Starr fought back in court and restored our right to vote down this increase. With the support of 61 volunteers, thousands of Oxnard
residents rallied to the cause and joined Aaron Starr - signing his petition to place Measure M on the ballot to STOP the City's unfair rate hike.

Here are just a few reasons to join us and Vote YES on Measure M.

Measure M will LOWER future utility bills to help Oxnard families and senior citizens make ends meet. Without Measure M, residents struggling on
fixed incomes may be forced to choose between paying their utility bill and buying groceries or medicine.

Measure M will protect local JOBS. Without Measure M, many of Oxnard’s family owned businesses - including those employing hard-working
farm workers - won't be able to afford City Hall's costly utility rate increase, and will need to lay off people.

Measure M will restore the PEOPLE’S VOICE at City Hall. City leaders refused to listen to our concerns and then tried to raise utility rates -
without our consent. Measure M will hold them accountable.

Oxnard is a middle class community and most residents already pay our fair share for utilities.

The people of Oxnard deserve better financial management - not higher utility bills - to fix our community’s aging infrastructure. Other cities are
improving their streets, sewers and water delivery systems without huge rate increases. Why can’t our leaders do the same?

Enough is enough! Stop the 87% Sewer Rate Hike.

Vote YES to Pay Less.

N VE 072-068

Argument in Favor of Measure M (continued)

Vote YES on Measure M.

www.YesOnOxnardMeasureM.com

s/Aaron Starr	s/Bishop Broderick Huggins	s/Edward Castillo	s/Steve Higashi	s/Arlene R. Cuevas

President, Moving Oxnard	Pastor, Saint Paul Baptist	Former Oxnard Planning	Retired Farmer	Owner, Super Taco

Forward	Church	Commissioner

Rebuttal to Argument in Favor of Measure M

Vote NO on Measure M! It’s another bad initiative that offers no solutions.

The sewer rates were determined after a thorough study by outside experts. It's clear that our system is crumbling.

The increases are actually spread out over many years. The biggest increase has already occurred and amounts to about 35 cents per day, per
household. Check your bill.

Reject Measure M! It would move Oxnard backward.

For too long, our City leadership didn't make tough decisions. Necessary rate increases were never implemented. Necessary maintenance and
repairs were never done. Oxnard is better than that. Let's not be another Flint, Michigan.

The proposed rates are not excessive, they can only be used on the sewer system and they are consistent with rates in other cities.

Outside experts have stated that much of our sewer system is in poor or very poor condition. The system was given a “D” grade based on their
assessment. Our residents deserve better than that. We deserve a clean and safe sewer system. Let’s not settle for less. Let’s not sacrifice our
future or our environment.

Measure M’s author talks about protecting jobs, but failed to mention that the Oxnard Chamber of Commerce opposes Measure M.

You spoke, our employees spoke, outside experts spoke. We listened. We made tough decisions, but those decisions will protect us now and in
the future.

Measure M is political opportunism at its worst. It offers no alternatives. It is flawed. Reject Measure M. Vote NO.

s/Carmen Ramirez
Mayor Pro Tern

On behalf of the Oxnard City Council

Argument Against Measure M

Due to California’s historic drought, Oxnard residents stepped up and conserved water. This resulted in lower revenues. But operating the
wastewater (sewer) system did not cost less. The City must not risk the health of the residents or the environment, so this necessitated raising
rates.

Recently a sewer manhole collapsed, sending raw sewage into a waterway headed to Ormond Beach. Similar failures can and will happen if the
City does not maintain its vital infrastructure. The wastewater facility needs critical repair. Also, the State has health regulations and imposes
significant fines for violations so the public health is not jeopardized.

It is never popular to raise utility rates. The City's rate expert minimized the rate increase, considered alternatives to help keep rates low, and
informed the public about the system’s needs. Also, the City is planning to implement a rate assistance program to help those struggling with the
higher rates.

N VE 072-069

Argument Against Measure M (continued)

The City has a modern wastewater facility to reclaim water and keep the City healthy. To continue that, the City must have the revenues from the
increased rates to meet operations, repair, maintenance and financial obligations. Without this increase the utility’s funds will be exhausted within
a short time. The City might not meet its duties.

Measure “M” would force the City to return to previous rates, which are simply not enough to fund the wastewater system. A Court will decide the
legality of this initiative, which would reduce rates and make it virtually impossible to maintain a functioning wastewater system. A decision could
come after the election, should the Measure pass.

Please vote NO on Measure “M” to keep our wastewater system functioning and the residents of Oxnard and our environment healthy.

s/Carmen Ramirez
Mayor Pro Tern

On behalf of the Oxnard City Council

Rebuttal to Argument Against Measure M

Droughts are temporary.

These 87% rate increases are PERMANENT.

An Oxnard Public Works Department report dated September 10,2014 - after statewide mandatory water conservation began - stated a 6%
increase would “ensure that revenues are adequate to fund daily operations and required maintenance, and to meet debt service coverage and
operating reserve requirements.”

Then, Oxnard paid over $4 million to an outside consultant, who recommended that Oxnard’s wastewater utility (with annual revenues of $30
million) spend $675 million on extravagant capital projects, which inflated a 6% rate increase to 87%.

Don't be fooled by the City's scare tactics defending their spending spree. On April 12,2016, City staff conceded they could address the system’s
maintenance requirements by spending less than $80 million over the next 5 years.

The City’s so-called rate assistance program offers false hope. On January 19,2016, the City disclosed having collected only $13,000 since 2014
for the program. With less than 50 cents collected per household, how does that help more than a handful of Oxnard’s nearly 40,000 ratepayers?

Everyone wants a solvent, functioning wastewater system. Voting YES on Measure M does not prevent the Oxnard City Council from enacting a
more responsible rate structure sufficient to keep our system functioning safely. It merely rejects the excessive 87% increase.

The City filed a lawsuit - at your expense - to stop you from voting on this.

We voters deserve better.

Thousand Oaks, experiencing the same drought, raised their rates only 1%.

Demand better financial management from the Oxnard City Council.

Vote YES to Pay Less.

Vote YES on Measure M.
www.YesOnOxnardMeasureM.com

s/Aaron Starr
President, Moving
Oxnard Forward

s/Phillip S. Molina
Former Oxnard
Finance Director

s/Edward M. Castillo
Former Oxnard Planning
Commissioner

s/Alicia Percell
Secretary, Moving
Oxnard Forward

s/Dick Thomson

President Ventura County Taxpayers Assoc.

On behalf of Ventura County Taxpayers Assoc.

N VE 072-070