Ballot question

The following question appeared on the ballot:[i]

In order to help fund general municipal services, including but not limited
to such matters as maintenance of public facilities such as parks and
buildings, economic development and general improvements throughout
the City, shall an ordinance to impose a tax at a rate of not more than
seven (7) cents per each $1.00 of proceeds or fractional part thereof on
non-medical cannabis or marijuana businesses and a tax at a rate of not
more that three (3) cents per each $1.00 of proceeds or fractional part
thereof on medical cannabis or marijuana businesses operating in the City ^
of Point Arena be adopted?[2]

Impartial analysis

The following impartial analysis of the measure was prepared by the office of the Point

Arena City Attorney:

Measure AE, if approved by the majority of voters, would enact Ordinance
No. 228 adding Chapter 3.40 to the City of Point Arena’s Municipal Code
entitled “Cannabis and Marijuana Tax.” This ordinance imposes a tax on
both recreational and medical marijuana businesses within the City. The
definition of “cannabis or marijuana business” refers to any activity
regulated or permitted by the City of Point Arena and includes, but is not
limited to, the cultivation, harvesting, transporting, dispensing, delivering,
manufacturing, processing, storing, testing, packaging of the marijuana
plant for medical or recreational use.

The proposed Cannabis and Marijuana Tax is a general tax, paid by the
business owner and based on the gross receipts of the business. It is not
a sales tax and cannot be imposed on the purchaser. Because it is a
general tax, the revenues would be available to fund general municipal
services, including but not limited to recreational activities, maintenance of
City streets, parks and other facilities, and other legal governmental
purpose.

Under Measure AE the maximum tax imposed on a recreational cannabis
or marijuana business would not exceed ten (10) cents maximum for each
$1.00 or fractional part of the business proceeds. The maximum tax
imposed on medical marijuana/cannabis businesses will be not more than
three (3) cents for each dollar or fractional part thereof. The City Council
will have the authority to establish and periodically adjust these rates so
long as the rate does not exceed these maximum rates. Any increase in
the maximum rates must be approved by the voters.

Existing State law does not currently authorize the operation of
non-medical marijuana businesses and they are not currently permitted to
locate or operate within the City. If approved, Measure AE would only
generate general taxes on recreational marijuana businesses in the event
recreational marijuana becomes legal under State law.

Measure AE will be adopted if it is approved by a majority of the voters
voting on the measure. A “Yes” vote is a vote to adopt the Cannabis and
Marijuana Tax. A “No” vote is a vote against adopting the Cannabis and
Marijuana Tax.

55

The City Council of Point Arena ordered Measure AE placed on the
ballot. [2]

Point Arena City Attorneys