Santa Cruz County, California,
Transportation Sales Tax Measure,
Measure D (November 2016)

| Text of measure

Ballot question

The following question appeared on the ballot:!1!

// In order to: improve children’s safety around schools; repair potholes;
repave streets; improve traffic flow on Highway 1; maintain senior/disabled
transit; reduce global warming pollution by providing transportation options
like sidewalks, buses, bike lanes, trails; preserve rail options; shall Santa
Cruz County voters adopt an ordinance establishing a half-cent sales tax for
30 years, raising approximately $17 million annually, requiring citizen
oversight, independent audits, and funds spent locally?!2!

Impartial analysis

The following impartial analysis of the measure was prepared by the office of the
Santa Cruz County Counsel:

If this measure is approved by at least two-thirds of those voting on it, it will enact
ordinance no. 2016-01 of the Santa Cruz County Regional Transportation
Commission. The ordinance will cause the retail transactions and use tax rates
(“sales tax”) imposed within Santa Cruz County to increase by half of one percent
for a thirty-year period in order to pay for the transportation projects described in
the ordinance and its expenditure plan which are printed in the ballot pamphlet. If
approved, it is expected to take effect in or around April 2017.

The ordinance sets out accountability requirements, as well as exemptions and
exclusions from the new tax. It also establishes that the constitutional
appropriations limit will include the taxes which are collected.The sales tax
increment proposed by this measure would apply within the cities as well as the
unincorporated areas of the County. Those jurisdictions have differing sales tax
rates for the transactions within their boundaries. Currently and prior to this
proposed increase, the sales tax rates are: 8.75% within the cities of Capitola, Santa
Cruz, and Scotts Valley; 9.0% within the City of Watsonville; and 8.25% in the
unincorporated areas of the County. Following this election, the rates would be
subject to further change as might be permitted or required by State law.

This election was requested by the Santa Cruz County Regional Transportation
Commission, and was called by the Santa Cruz County Board of Supervisors as
requested by the Commission.

A “yes” vote is to adopt the ordinance and approve the increase in the sales tax.
A “no” vote is against the increase in the sales tax. w

—Santa Cruz County Counsel™

ORDINANCE NO. 2016-01

AN ORDINANCE OF
THE SANTA CRUZ COUNTY REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION
ENACTING A RETAIL TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX,

SUBJECT TO ADOPTION BY THE ELECTORATE,

TO BE ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION

WHEREAS, the multimodal local transportation network is necessary for economic
vitality; provides access to homes, schools, healthcare, and businesses; is utilized by drivers,
buses, people walking, bicyclists, trains and trucks; and is important to the overall quality of life
for all Santa Cruz County residents; and

WHEREAS, agencies in Santa Cruz County are working to reduce congestion, reduce
greenhouse gas emissions and improve safety, access and mobility; and

WHEREAS, the County of Santa Cruz and the Cities of Capitola, Santa Cruz, Scotts
Valley, and Watsonville operate, maintain, and make improvements to the local street and road
network, which includes over 1,800 lane miles of roads, traffic signals, sidewalks, bicycle paths,
and other transportation facilities; and

WHEREAS, public transit and paratransit operators provide a lifeline for senior citizens
and people with disabilities, who depend on these vital transportation services for independent
living; and

WHEREAS, over 100,000 people travel each day on Highway 1 to access their homes,
jobs, health care, and services; and

WHEREAS, the Santa Cruz Branch Rail Line was brought into public ownership in
2012 for the purpose of expanding transportation options along the most heavily traveled
corridor in Santa Cruz County; and

WHEREAS, the Monterey Bay Sanctuary Scenic Trail Network, including the Rail
Trail, is a planned multi-use bicycle and walking path that is separated from vehicular traffic and
will span the length of Santa Cruz County connecting homes, schools, jobs, coastal and other key
destinations; and

WHEREAS, State and Federal funding sources and programs that support transportation
have been cut, are unreliable, can be diverted to other uses, and are insufficient to operate and
maintain the local road, bicycle, pedestrian, transit, senior and disabled transportation networks
in a state of good repair; and

WHEREAS, new local revenues that cannot be taken by the state are needed to prevent
further deterioration of roads and maintain them in good condition; reduce traffic congestion;
maintain public transportation and transportation services for seniors and people with

disabilities; reduce collisions and improve traffic flow on local highways; provide safe and
accessible crosswalks, ramps, and sidewalks; and create safe bicycle routes; and

WHEREAS, there is strong recognition of need for infrastructure improvements and
acknowledgement that the local multi-modal transportation network serves all sectors of our
community; and

WHEREAS, after receiving feedback from residents throughout Santa Cruz County on
their priorities for the multimodal transportation system, the Santa Cruz County Regional
Transportation Commission has determined that the community places a high priority on
preserving and maintaining existing infrastructure, maintaining public transit and transit service
for seniors and people with disabilities, reducing traffic congestion, improving safety, and
expanding options for traveling within Santa Cruz County; and

WHEREAS, the Local Transportation Authority and Improvement Act, California
Public Utilities Code Section 180000 et seq. (“Act”), generally authorizes a local transportation
authority to place a ballot measure before the voters of the county to authorize a retail
transactions and use tax to fund transportation-related projects and programs (“Transportation
Tax”), upon the approval of two-thirds of the electors voting upon the measure; and

WHEREAS, the Santa Cruz County Regional Transportation Commission is designated
by California Government Code section 29532.1 as the transportation planning agency of the
County of Santa Cruz; and

WHEREAS, Sections 180050 and 180201 of the Act provide that the County may
designate a transportation planning agency to act as the local transportation authority for
purposes of the Act including imposing a Transportation Tax; and

WHEREAS, a one-half cent sales tax established locally would generate approximately
seventeen million dollars ($17 million) per year solely for transportation projects in Santa Cruz
County; and

WHEREAS, local funding measures for transportation strengthen our local economy by
creating jobs and providing mobility and access for all transportation system users; and

WHEREAS, the Act states that the additional funds provided by the tax so adopted shall
supplement existing local revenues being used for public transportation purposes; and

WHEREAS, the Act further provides that a county transportation expenditure plan shall
be prepared for the expenditure of the revenues expected to be derived from the Transportation
Tax; and

WHEREAS, the Santa Cruz County Regional Transportation Commission has conducted
a noticed public hearing, as required by state law, on the question of whether or not to request
voters to adopt an Ordinance to fund the programs identified in the Expenditure Plan; and

WHEREAS, funds generated by the Transportation Tax shall be used only for
transportation purposes, including the administration of the Expenditure Plan, construction,
acquisition, maintenance and operation of streets, roads, highways, public transit systems,
including paratransit services, and related transportation purposes within the County of Santa
Cruz,

NOW, THEREFORE, the people of the Santa Cruz County Regional Transportation
Commission of the County of Santa Cruz do ordain as follows:

Section 1. TITLE. This Ordinance shall be known as the “Santa Cruz County
Transportation Improvement Plan Measure.” The Santa Cruz County Regional Transportation
Commission shall be referred to herein as the Local Transportation Authority (“Authority”). This
Ordinance shall be applicable in the territory of the Santa Cruz County Regional Transportation
Commission, which is all incorporated and unincorporated territory lying within the County of
Santa Cruz.

Section 2. SUMMARY. This Ordinance provides for the adoption of a transportation
Expenditure Plan for Santa Cruz County, the imposition of a Retail Transactions and Use Tax of
one-half of one percent (0.5%) for a period of thirty (30) years, the authority to issue limited tax
bonds secured by such taxes and the administration of the tax proceeds, with independent
citizens oversight and annual audit reports for public review.

Section 3. OPERATIVE DATE. Subject to voter approval, this Ordinance shall be
operative the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing more than 110 days after the
adoption of this Ordinance. The anticipated Operative Date of this Ordinance will be as early as
April 1, 2017, if approved by two-thirds of the voters voting on the measure at the November 8,
2016 Election.

Section 4. DEFINITIONS. The following definitions shall apply in this Ordinance:

A.	“Authority” means the Santa Cruz County Regional Transportation Commission (SCCRTC),
previously created in Government Code 67940 and 67941 and designated as the
transportation planning agency for Santa Cruz County in Government Code 29532.1 and
designated as the Local Transportation Authority for Santa Cruz County pursuant to
Division 19 (commencing with Section 180000) of the California Public Utilities Code,
authorized to impose a Retail Transactions and Use Tax, subject to voter approval, in
accordance with Chapter 5 (commencing with Section 180200) of Division 19 of the
California Public Utilities Code, and with Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of
Division 2 of the California Revenue and Taxation Code.

B.	“Board of Supervisors” means the Santa Cruz County Board of Supervisors.

C.	“County” means Santa Cruz County and includes the incorporated and unincorporated
territory of the county which makes up the boundaries of the Santa Cruz County Regional
Transportation Commission territory.

D.	“State” means the State of California.

E.	“Measure Revenue” or “Transportation Tax Revenue” means the revenue generated by the
one-half of one percent (0.5%) increase in the Retail Transactions and Use Tax imposed and
as collected pursuant to this Ordinance, including any interest or other earnings thereon.

F.	“Retail Transactions and Use Tax” or “Transportation Tax” is to be identified as specified in
Part 1.6 (commencing with section 7251) of Division 2 of the California Revenue and
Taxation code.

G.	“Measure” or “Traffic Relief, Road Repair, Safety, Transit Improvement Measure” or
“Transportation Improvement Plan (TRIP)” or “Santa Cruz County Transportation Tax
Measure” means the Ordinance, including all provisions and Expenditure Plan incorporated
herein.

H.	“Expenditure Plan” or “Plan” or “Investment Plan” means the 2016 Santa Cruz County
Transportation Improvement Plan - Expenditure Plan attached to this Ordinance as Exhibit A
and adopted as part of this Ordinance including any future amendments thereto. This is the
plan for the expenditure of revenues expected to be derived from the tax imposed pursuant to
this Ordinance, together with other federal, state, and local funds expected to be available for
transportation projects and programs, for the period during which the tax is to be imposed.

Section 5. PURPOSE. This Ordinance is adopted to achieve the following, among other

purposes, and directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish those

purposes:

A.	To impose a Retail Transactions and Use Tax in accordance with the provisions of Part 1.6
(commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code and
Section 180000 et seq. of the California Public Utilities Code, which authorize the Authority
to adopt this Ordinance which shall be operative if a two-thirds (2/3) majority of the electors
voting on the measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax at an election called for that
purpose.

B.	To adopt a Retail Transactions and Use Tax ordinance that incorporates provisions identical
to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California insofar as those provisions
are not inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2
of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a Retail Transactions and Use Tax ordinance that imposes a countywide
Transportation Tax and provides a measure therefor that can be administered and collected
by the State Board of Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and
requires the least possible deviation from, the existing statutory and administrative
procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization in administering and collecting the
California State Sales and Use Taxes.

D.	To adopt a Retail Transactions and Use Tax ordinance that can be administered in a manner
that will be, to the greatest degree possible, consistent with the provisions of Division 19
(commencing with Section 180000) of the California Public Utilities Code and Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting the
transactions and use taxes, and at the same time, minimize the burden of record keeping upon
persons subject to taxation under the provisions of this ordinance.

E.	Measure Revenue, including any interest or other earnings thereon, may only be used for
transportation purposes described in the Ordinance and Expenditure Plan (Exhibit A),
including: the implementation and administration of all provisions and requirements of this
Ordinance as amended; the construction, acquisition, maintenance, and operation of streets,
roads, highways, including local roads, state highways and public transit systems; and for
related transportation purposes consistent with the Expenditure Plan, including project
management and oversight of the projects to be funded using the Transportation Tax, such as
coordination with other responsible agencies as well as project delivery and negotiation of
project agreements. These purposes include expenditures for planning, environmental
reviews, engineering and design costs, and related right-of-way acquisition. Expenditures
may also include, but are not limited to, payments to the County of Santa Cruz for any
election costs as set forth in the Ordinance, required payments to the Board of Equalization,
costs of program administration and oversight, defense or prosecution of legal actions related
thereto, debt service on bonds or other indebtedness, and expenses and reserves in connection
with the issuance of the same.

Section 6. ADMINISTRATION OF PLANS. The Authority shall impose the
Transportation Tax and enter into an agreement with the State Board of Equalization to collect
the funds, may at the discretion of the Authority’s governing Board enter into agreement with the
County Auditor-Controller to allocate revenues derived from the Transportation Tax consistent
with the Ordinance and Expenditure Plan, and shall administer the Ordinance and Expenditure
Plan included in this Ordinance, consistent with the provisions and priorities of the Ordinance
and Expenditure Plan, consistent with the authority cited herein.

Section 7. CREATION OF SPECIAL FUND. The Authority shall establish a new fund
entitled “Transportation Tax Regional Transportation Fund". All Transportation Tax Revenue,
plus interest, will be deposited in the special fund. The fund authorized hereunder will be
administered by the Authority pursuant to this Ordinance and the provisions of Division 19
(commencing with Section 180000) of the California Public Utilities Code, and Part 1.6
(commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the California Revenue and Taxation Code.

Section 8. IMPLEMENTATION.

A.	Projects and programs funded in the Expenditure Plan will be implemented over the 30-year
time horizon of the Transportation Tax. Three types of investments are funded by the
Expenditure Plan: investment categories which are allocated a percentage of net revenues,
capital investments which are allocated specific dollar amounts, and ongoing direct
allocations of a percentage of net revenues to be distributed to cities, the County of Santa
Cruz, and transit operators for capital projects and operations. Capital investments will be

made based upon clearly defined project descriptions and limits resulting from the outcomes
of environmental analyses, as applicable. The Authority shall distribute revenues no less than
quarterly to local jurisdictions, the Santa Cruz Metropolitan Transit District, and the
Consolidated Transportation Service Agency based on the formulas set forth in the
Expenditure Plan, in accordance with the Act and this Ordinance.

B.	The Santa Cruz County Regional Transportation Commission, which currently allocates,
administers and oversees the expenditure of federal, state and Transportation Development
Act funding for local and regional transportation projects and programs, in its role as the
Authority shall allocate, administer and oversee the expenditure of all Measure Revenues
which are not directly allocated by formula annually to other agencies, consistent with the
Expenditure Plan, as it may be amended in accordance with the Act and this Ordinance
through an Implementation Plan, which it will update at least every 5 years, following a
public hearing. The purposes of the Implementation Plan are to define the scope, cost, and
delivery schedule of each Expenditure Plan project or program, detail the revenue projections
and possible financing tools needed to deliver the Expenditure Plan within the 30 years
promised to voters, and describe the risks, critical issues and opportunities that the Authority
should address to expeditiously deliver the Expenditure Plan. The Implementation Plan may
be amended by a majority vote of the Authority, however, amendment of the Implementation
Plan shall not serve to amend provisions of the Expenditure Plan.

C.	Agencies implementing the Expenditure Plan projects may accumulate revenue over multiple
years so that sufficient funding is available for larger and long-term projects. Any interest
income earned on funds allocated pursuant to this ordinance shall be expended only for the
purposes for which the funds were allocated.

Section 9. LEVERAGING FUNDS. Leveraging or matching of outside funding sources is
strongly encouraged. Any additional transportation revenues made available through their
replacement by matching funds will be spent based on the principles outlined for fund allocations
described in the Ordinance and Expenditure Plan.

Section 10. BONDING AUTHORITY. Pay-as-you-go financing is the preferred method of
financing transportation improvements and programs under this Ordinance. However, if
determined by the board of the Authority to be cost effective and to accelerate implementation of
projects, the Authority may decide to use bond financing as an alternative method. Upon voter
approval of this Ordinance, the Authority shall have the power to sell or issue, from time to time,
on or before the collection of taxes, bonds, or other evidence of indebtedness, in an aggregate
principal amount at any one time outstanding not to exceed the estimated proceeds of the
Transportation Tax, and to secure such indebtedness solely by way of future collection of the
Transportation Tax, for capital outlay expenditures for the purposes set forth in this Ordinance,
including, but not limited to, carrying out the transportation projects described in the Expenditure
Plan, consistent with the Section 180250 of the Public Utilities Code.

Section 11. COOPERATIVE FUND AGREEMENTS. To maximize the effective use of
funds, revenues may be transferred or exchanged between or among jurisdictions receiving funds
from this measure. Jurisdictions receiving funds may, by annual or multi-year agreement,

exchange funds provided that the percentage of funds allocated as provided in the Expenditure
Plan is maintained over the duration of the period of time the tax is imposed. Agreements to
exchange funds, including fund repayment provisions, must be approved by the Authority and
shall be consistent with all rules adopted or approved by the Authority relating to such
exchanges. The Authority may exchange revenues for State or federal funds allocated or granted
to any public agency within or outside the area or jurisdiction of the Authority to maximize
effectiveness in the use of the revenues. Such federal or State funds shall be distributed in the
same manner as revenues derived from this ordinance. The Authority shall maintain for public
review an accounting of all balances that are subject to cooperative agreements approved
pursuant to this section.

Section 12. ADMINISTRATIVE AND IMPLEMENTATION COSTS.

A.	The Authority shall expend only that amount of the Transportation Tax Revenue for
staff support, audit, administrative expenses, and contract services that is necessary and
reasonable to carry out its responsibilities pursuant to Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code. Pursuant to Section 180109 of the Public Utilities Code, the Authority shall not expend
more than one percent of the funds generated pursuant to Division 19 of the Code for
administrative salaries and benefits net of the amount of fees paid to the State Board of
Equalization for collection of the transactions and use tax and prior to the distribution of the
Transportation Tax Revenue as provided in the Expenditure Plan (Exhibit A).

B.	In order to ensure that the cost of administration, implementation and oversight this
Measure are not borne by other programs and sources, such as Transportation Development Act-
funded programs, any funds necessary for administrative, implementation and oversight of the
Ordinance and Transportation Tax shall be paid by Measure Revenues. These functions include
audits, programming processes, reporting, financial management, compiling and publishing an
annual report, providing public information concerning the Ordinance, rent, supplies, consulting
services, overhead, legal, other responsibilities as may be necessary to administer the Ordinance
and Expenditure Plan. Costs of performing or contracting for project-related work shall be paid
from the revenues of the Transportation Tax allocated to the appropriate purpose and project.

Section 13. EXECUTION OF DUTIES. The Authority may engage, contract with,
employ and compensate any public or private agency, party, contractor or professional, in
accordance with the Public Contract Code and/or any of the provisions for public
employment of profession services for public agencies, for the planning, finance, approval,
design, construction, acquisition of right of way, maintenance, operation, control and repair
of any road, highway, bus, rail or other transportation facility. However, the Authority shall
not be responsible for the maintenance or operation of any State highway facilities following
construction contract completion.

Section 14. ELECTION. The Authority requests the Board of Supervisors to call an election
for voter approval of this Ordinance, which election shall be held on November 8, 2016. The
election shall be called and conducted in the same manner as provided by law for the conduct of
elections by a county. Pursuant to Section 180203 of the Public Utilities Code, the sample ballot
to be mailed to the voters shall be the full proposition as set forth in this Ordinance, and the voter

information handbook shall include the Expenditure Plan. Approval of this Ordinance, and
imposition of the Transportation Tax, shall require the affirmative vote of a two-thirds (2/3)
majority of the electors voting on this measure at the election described in this section. The
proposition to be placed on the ballot shall read substantially as follows:

“Safety, Pothole Repair, Traffic Relief, Transit Improvement Measure. In order to:
improve children’s safety around schools; repair potholes; repave streets; improve traffic
flow on Highway 1; maintain senior/disabled transit; reduce global warming pollution by
providing transportation options like sidewalks, buses, bike lanes, trails; preserve rail
options; shall Santa Cruz County voters adopt an ordinance establishing a half-cent sales
tax for 30 years, raising approximately $17 million annually, requiring citizen oversight,
independent audits, and funds spent locally?

YES NO

Section 15. ELECTION COSTS. The County of Santa Cruz shall be reimbursed for its cost
in conducting the election if the measure is approved per Section 180203(a) of the Public
Utilities Code. Election costs will be funded from Year 1 Measure Revenues before net proceeds
are disbursed to the projects and programs in the Expenditure Plan. Reimbursement of the
County of Santa Cruz for the costs of this election shall be deferred until it can be paid from the
Measure Revenues collected when the Transportation Tax goes into effect.

Section 16. CONTRACT WITH STATE. Prior to the operative date of this Ordinance, the
Authority shall contract with the State Board of Equalization to perform all functions incident to
the administration and operation of this transactions and use tax ordinance; provided, that if the
Authority shall not have contracted with the State Board of Equalization prior to the operative
date, it shall nevertheless so contract and in such a case the operative date shall be the first day of
the first calendar quarter following the execution of such a contract.

Section 17. TRANSACTIONS TAX RATE. For the privilege of selling tangible personal
property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated and
unincorporated territory of the County at the rate of one-half of one percent (0.5%) of the gross
receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail in said
territory on and after the operative date of this Ordinance.

Section 18. PLACE OF SALE. For the purposes of this Ordinance, all retail sales are
consummated at the place of business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is
delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for
delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery
charges, when such charges are subject to the state sales and use tax, regardless of the place to
which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the State or
has more than one place of business, the place or places at which the retail sales are
consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by
the State Board of Equalization.

Section 19. USE TAX RATE. An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other
consumption in the County of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on and after
the operative date of this ordinance for storage, use or other consumption in said territory at the
rate of one-half of one percent (0.5%) of the sales price of the property. The sales price shall
include delivery charges when such charges are subject to state sales or use tax regardless of the
place to which delivery is made.

Section 20. ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW Except as otherwise
provided in this ordinance and except insofar as they are inconsistent with the provisions of
Division 19 (commencing with Section 180000) of the California Public Utilities Code and Part

1.6 of Division 2 (commencing with Section 7251) of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the
provisions of Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code are hereby adopted and made a part of this Ordinance as though fully set forth herein.

Section 21. LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF STATE LAW AND COLLECTION
OF USE TAXES. In adopting the provisions of Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code:

A. Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the name of
this Authority shall be substituted therefor. However, the substitution shall not be made
when:

1.	The word "State" is used as a part of the title of the State Controller, State Treasurer,
Victim Compensation and Government Claims Board, State Board of Equalization, State
Treasury, or the Constitution of the State of California;

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against this
Authority or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by or against the State
Board of Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the administration or
operation of this Ordinance.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sections referring to the
exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the result of the substitution would
be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other
consumption of tangible personal property which would not otherwise be exempt
from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other consumption remain subject to tax
by the State under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other consumption of
tangible personal property which would not be subject to tax by the state under the
said provision of that code.

4.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711, 6715, 6737, 6797 or
6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

B. The word "County" shall be substituted for the word "State" in the phrase "retailer engaged
in business in this State" in Section 6203 and in the definition of that phrase in Section 6203.

Section 22. PERMIT NOT REQUIRED. If a seller's permit has been issued to a retailer

under Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional transactor's permit shall not

be required by this Ordinance.

Section 23. EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the use tax the amount
of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or by any city, city and county,
or county pursuant to the Bradley-Bums Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the
amount of any state-administered transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax the gross receipts
from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum products, to operators of
aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the County in which the sale is made
and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or
property under the authority of the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign
government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the County which is shipped to a point outside the
County, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by the retailer or his
agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at such point.
For the purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point outside the County shall be
satisfied:

a.	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject to registration
pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle
Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code,
and undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section
9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration to an out-of-County address and by a
declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that such address is, in
fact, his or her principal place of residence; and

b.	With	respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of business out-

of-County and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, that the vehicle
will be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to furnish the property for
a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this
ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such property, for any
period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed
by the lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, the sale or lease of tangible
personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for
any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right
to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this ordinance, the storage, use or other

consumption in this County of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a transactions tax under
any state-administered transactions and use tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of aircraft and used or
consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as
common carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under a certificate of
public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this State, the United
States, or any foreign government. This exemption is in addition to the exemptions
provided in Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of
California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price pursuant to a
contract entered into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the tangible personal
property arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such property for any
period of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed
by a lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, storage, use, or other
consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power over, tangible personal
property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period
of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to
terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in business in the County shall
not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible personal property, unless
the retailer ships or delivers the property into the County or participates within the
County in making the sale of the property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or
receiving the order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer in the
County or through any representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in
the County under the authority of the retailer.

7.	"A retailer engaged in business in the County" shall also include any retailer of any of the
following:	vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with

Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with
Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels registered under
Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be
required to collect use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle,
vessel, or aircraft at an address in the County.

D.	Any person subject to the use tax under this Ordinance may credit against that tax any
transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a County imposing, or retailer
liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code with respect to the sale to the person of the property the storage, use or other
consumption of which is subject to the use tax.

Section 24. AMENDMENTS. All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this
Ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use
taxes and which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part of this Ordinance, provided however, that no
such amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this Ordinance. Other
amendments to this Ordinance shall require a two-thirds (2/3) vote of the total membership of the
Authority.

Section 25. EXPENDITURE PLAN UPDATES AND AMENDMENTS.

A.	This Ordinance and Expenditure Plan may be amended to provide for the use of additional
federal, state, and local revenues, to account for unexpected revenues, or to take into
consideration unforeseen circumstances. Should a project implementing agency determine
that a planned project has become undeliverable, infeasible or unfundable due to
circumstances unforeseen at the time this Ordinance and Expenditure Plan were created, or
should a project not require all funds programmed for that project or have excess funding,
funding set forth at project termination will be reallocated to another project or program of
the same type or otherwise serving the same objectives.

B.	The Ordinance and Expenditure Plan may only be amended, if required, by the following
process set forth in Section 180207 of the Public Utilities Code: (1) Initiation of amendments
by the Authority reciting findings of necessity; (2) Provision of notice and a copy of the
amendments provided to the Board of Supervisors and the City Councils in Santa Cruz
County; (3) The proposed amendments shall become effective 45 days after notice is given.
Amendments shall require a two-thirds (2/3) vote of the total membership of the Authority.

Section 26. MAINTENANCE OF EFFORT. Pursuant to California Public Utilities Code
180001(e), it is the intent of this Ordinance that funds generated by the Transportation Tax be
used to supplement and not replace existing revenues used for transportation purposes. Existing
funds, revenues and other resources being used for transportation purposes include but are not
limited to federal and state funding, the collection of traffic impact mitigation fees, other local

impact fees, and dedications of property. The funds generated by the Transportation Tax shall
not be used to replace existing transportation funding or to replace requirements for new
development to provide for its own transportation needs. The entities receiving Measure
Revenues shall maintain their existing commitment of discretionary local transportation-related
expenditures for transportation purposes pursuant to this ordinance, and the Authority shall
enforce this Section by appropriate actions, including fiscal audits of the local agencies.

Section 27. ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN. No injunction or writ of
mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit, action or proceeding in any
court against the State or the Authority, or against any officer of the State or the Authority, to
prevent or enjoin the collection under this ordinance, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.

Section 28. ANNUAL APPROPRIATIONS LIMIT. The annual appropriations limit of the
Authority pursuant to Section 4 of Article XIIIB of the California Constitution and Section
180202 of the Public Utilities Code shall be established at a sum equal to the amount of all
proceeds of the Transportation Tax collected annually, and as defined by said Article XIIIB. The
appropriations limit shall be subject to adjustment as provided by law.

Section 29. SEVERABILITY. If any provision of this ordinance or the application thereof
to any person or circumstance is held invalid or unenforceable by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the remainder of the ordinance and the application of such provision to other
persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby, and the Authority declares that it would
have passed each part of this Ordinance irrespective of the validity of any other part.

Section 30. CAPTIONS. The titles and headings to the sections set forth in this ordinance are
not part of this ordinance and shall have no effect upon the construction or interpretation of any
part hereof.

Section 31.	ENVIRONMENTAL. This Ordinance is not a project as defined in Section

15378 of the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines and is therefore exempt
from CEQA requirements. Approval of this Ordinance and Expenditure Plan does not commit to
implementation of any specific project or activity listed herein. Prior to commencement of any
specific project or activity identified in the Expenditure Plan, applicable provisions of the
California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) shall be completed.

Section 32. TAXPAYER SAFEGUARDS. AUDITS. AND ACCOUNTABILITY.

Accountability is of utmost importance in delivering public investments with public dollars. In
order to ensure accountability, transparency and public oversight of all funds collected and
allocated under this Measure and to comply with state law, all of the following shall apply:

A. Annual Report. Each agency receiving Measure Revenue shall annually adopt, after holding
a public hearing, an annual report which includes 1) a five-year program of projects
including information about each of the projects to be funded with Measure Revenues
allocated according to the Expenditure Plan. Local and regional agencies shall submit their
program of projects to the Authority in a format that can be easily understood by members of

the public. 2) Description of expenditures of Measure Revenues from the most recently
completed fiscal year. The purpose of requiring the most recently completed fiscal year
expenditures is to allow the Authority to prepare a comprehensive report to the public on the
expenditure of funds generated by this Ordinance.

B.	Annual Audit. No less than annually, an independent annual audit shall be conducted of the
expenditure of all funds generated by the transportation tax. The audit, which shall be made
available to the public, shall report on evidence that the expenditure of funds is in accordance
with this Plan as adopted by the voters in approving the Ordinance on November 8, 2016.
The Authority will also prepare a publicly available annual report on past and upcoming
activities and publish an annual financial statement.

C.	Independent Oversight Committee. An Independent Oversight Committee shall be formed
by the Board of Directors of the Authority to review the annual independent fiscal audit of
the expenditure of the Transportation Tax funds and issue an annual report on its findings
regarding compliance with the requirements of the Expenditure Plan and the Ordinance to the
Authority Board of Directors. The total membership of the Independent Oversight
Committee shall not exceed five (5) members and any vacancy which may occur from time
to time shall be filled by the Board of Directors of the Authority as soon as reasonably
possible.

Members of the Independent Oversight Committee shall be residents of Santa Cruz County
who are neither elected officials of any government, nor employees from any agency or
organization that either oversees or implements projects funded from the proceeds of the
sales tax. Members will fairly represent the geographical, social, cultural, and economic
diversity of Santa Cruz County to ensure maximum benefit for transportation users. The
Committee shall include at least one person with an accounting or fiscal management
background.

Independent Oversight Committee meetings will be announced in advance and will be open
to the general public. The Independent Oversight Committee shall meet at least once but no
more than four times per year.

The responsibilities of this Committee include:

•	Reviewing Expenditure Plan expenditures on an annual basis to ensure they conform
to the Ordinance.

•	Reviewing the annual audit and report prepared by an independent auditor, describing
how funds were spent.

•	Produce a publicly available Annual Report of Oversight Activities.

D.	Decisions regarding implementation of this Ordinance will be made by the Authority in
public meetings, subject to the Brown Act.

Section 33. EFFECTIVE DATE. This Ordinance relates to the levying and collecting of the
retail transactions and use tax and shall take effect immediately, subject only to the Operative
Date set forth in this Ordinance.

Section 34. TERMINATION DATE. The authority to levy the tax imposed by this
Ordinance shall expire thirty (30) years from the Operative Date of this ordinance (with the last
operative date anticipated to be March 31, 2047).

The foregoing Ordinance was PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Santa Cruz County
Regional Transportation Commission (SCCRTC), on June 16, 2016, by the following vote:

AYES:	Don	Lane,	John	Leopold,	Ryan	Coonerty,	Ed	Bottorff,	Karina	Cervantez,

Cynthia Chase, Jimmy Dutra, Dennis Norton, Bruce McPherson

NOES:	Randy	Johnson,	Greg	Caput

ABSENT: Zach Friend

Don Lane, Chair

Attest:

George Dondero, Executive Director

\ \rtcserv2 \shared\ballotmeasure \2016\ballot\ordinance2016tripvadtoped. docx