CITY OF HAYWARD MEASURE D

To maintain City of Hayward yES

services including: neighborhood _____________

police patrols, fire stations/911,

firefighter, paramedic response times; ________________

preserving youth/anti-gang programs; emergency/
disaster preparedness; city streets, sidewalks and
lighting; shall the City of Hayward renew the existing
Utility Users Tax at the current 5.5 percent rate on
gas, electricity, video, telecommunications services,
providing $16 million annually for 20 years from the
current end date, with exemptions for low-income
lifeline users; and all money used for City of Hayward
services?

CITY ATTORNEY S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF
MEASURE D

The Hayward City Council has placed a measure on the
June 7, 2016 ballot, asking voters to approve an extension
of the Utility Users Tax Ordinance, set to expire in June,
2019. If passed by a simple majority of the voters voting
on the measure, the Ordinance would continue to impose a
five-and-one-half percent (5.5%) tax on telecommunication
services (including land line telephone and cell phone
services), video services, electricity and gas consumption.
Water consumption and sewer services would not be taxed
under the Ordinance. This tax was first approved by voters
in May, 2009, for a ten-year period. If approved by a
simple majority of voters on June 7, 2016, the Ordinance
would expire June 30,2039, unless further extended by the
voters.

In general, utility companies would collect the tax from
consumers as part of their regular utility bills and would
remit the tax to the City. Qualifying low-income residents
and Lifeline program participants would be exempt
from the tax, upon application and approval by the Tax
Administrator. The definition of each utility service
and a description of how the tax is calculated are more
particularly described in the Ordinance.

The utility users tax is a general tax intended to alleviate the
City's ongoing general operating budget deficit. Revenue
generated by the tax would be deposited in the City's General
Fund and used to support such essential public services,
as police, fire and paramedic services; the operation of
youth/anti-gang, disaster preparedness and economic
development programs; street repairs and maintenance;
graffiti removal; code enforcement and library programs,
and other general government purposes. The Ordinance
includes a requirement for an annual financial audit of tax
collection and expenditures to be performed by a qualified,
independent third party. The results of the annual audits
would be available to the public.

A "Yes" vote on this measure means the voter is in favor
of authorizing the City to collect a utility users tax for the
additional twenty-year period. A "No" vote on this measure
means the voter is not in favor of the City collecting a

utility users tax for an additional twenty-year period.

s/MICHAEL S. LAWSON
City Attorney, City of Hayward

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure
D. If you desire a copy of the Ordinance, please contact
the City Clerk's Office at 777 B Street, Hayward, CA
94541, telephone number (510) 583-4400, and a copy will
be sent to you at no chaige. Free copies of the Ordinance
are available at the City Clerk's Office, the City's website
www.havward-ca.gov/vour-government/elections or via
e-mail citvclerk@havward-ca. gov.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE D

VOTE YES on Measure D to maintain funding for
ESSENTIAL City of Hayward services without raising
your tax rate.

In 2009, Hayward voters approved a local utility users tax
(UUT), Measure A, to prevent devastating cuts to public
services in the wake of the Great Recession. Since then, the
City of Hayward has worked hard to be fiscally responsible
while maintaining essential city services as promised with
the original Measure A.

Measure A will expire shortly; and just as in 2009, without
this vital funding, the City will have no choice but to make
severe service cuts.

Measure 0 authorizes continued funding to maintain;

*	Adequate 911 emergency response times

*	Firefighters and paramedics, (and fully operational
Hayward fire stations)

*	Current levels of police staffing and neighborhood
patrols

*	Youth programs that keep kids away from crime,
gangs, and drugs

*	Disaster preparedness programs

*	Economic development services that stimulate the
local economy

Measure D will NOT RAISE your tax rate. It simply
extends WITHOUT INCREASING the current 5.5% rate
originally approved by voters. By law, the State cannot
take this funding away.

Measure D lasts 20 years only and REQUIRES annual
audits to ensure funds are spent as promised. This funding
cannot be extended without a new vote by our community.

All residents and businesses will pay their fair share.
Individuals qualifying for low-income lifeline service will
be eligible for an exemption.

Please join local firefighters, police officers, neighborhood
leaders, seniors, parents, civic and business leaders, and
residents from every neighborhood in Hayward who are
uniting behind Measure D to support our community.

Keep our city moving forward without raising your tax
rate.

Please VOTE YES on Measure 0.

Learn more at www.ProtectHavwardsFuture.com.

s/CHARLES PLUMMER
Alameda County Sheriff Emeritus & Hayward Resident

s/B ARB ARA HALLID AY
Mayor, City of Hayward

s/OBRAY VANBUREN
Labor Leader and Fairway Park Resident

s/ELAINE SUNDAY
President, Hay ward Neighborhood Alert

s/MICHAEL SWEENEY
Mayor, City of Hayward, Retired

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
MEASURE D

Jeez, the supporting argument reads like an extortion
note—keep paying or else the severe cuts you 'll suffer will
be devastating.

Come on, give us a break.

The UUT was enacted to mitigate the effects of the
recession. Now that property values have returned to
former highs and there are hundreds of residential units
currently in the planning process, the city will be reaping
a windfall. This is because in addition to normal revenue
levels, the current UUT won’t expire for another three
years.

If we don’t let it expire in 2019 as intended, we’re going
to be in big trouble. All of these wonderful taxes, fees, and
assessments that have been enacted lately are killing the
golden goose—our crucial business sector.

Despite a booming economy, our city is struggling to
attract and retain good businesses. Consider Hayward’s
largest for-profit employer, bus manufacturer Gillig. This
celebrated company has given up on Hayward and is
moving to Livermore—our nearby neighbor that has no
utility tax, no emergency facilities tax, and a lower sales
tax rate.

There’s a whole lot more for you to consider, but limited
space here doesn’t allow for it. Therefore, if you’re still
inclined to think that extending the UUT at this time is
a good thing, please visit www.HeyHavward .com and
review additional information so that at least you’ll be
making the most informed choice.

Thank you for voting!

s/LAWRENCE JOPIMANN
Hayward resident, property owner, and businessman

HAMD-2

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE D

In 2009, the City declared a fiscal emergency to justify a
Utility Users Tax (UUT). The purpose of this temporary,
10-year tax was to weather the recession.

Now, with a robust recovery and an increased sales tax
(the highest in California), the UUT should no longer be
necessary. To argue otherwise is an admission that the City
is budgetarily inept, and we’re consequently stuck in a
perpetual state of emergency.

Instead of threatening to cut emergency services, the
City ought to be reining in the highest compensation
levels of its emergency service personnel. Visit www.
transparentcalifornia.com and count the number of
Hayward firefighters receiving annual compensation
amounts of over $300,000. YouTl be shocked.

Regarding the UUT, most have no idea on what they’re
being taxed or the specific amount they pay each year...
Do you?

Some utilities are taxed; some aren’t. Electricity is taxed;
water isn’t. Gas is taxed; sewer isn’t. Xfinity TV is taxed;
Dish TV isn’t Landline phone service is taxed; VoIP isn’t.
Cell phone service billed to a Hayward address is taxed;
service invoiced elsewhere (such as a prepaid/no-contact
account or a friends and family/employer plan) isn’t.

There’s no logical correlation between this confusingly
applied tax and an individual’s burden on city services.
Individual neighbors requiring the same level of service
can be taxed significantly different amounts based on the
manner of their consumption.

An individual having Dish TV, a VoIP home phone, a no-
contract mobile phone, and a solar array that can generate
all needed power will pay nothing toward city services via
this tax. While someone who has Xfinity TV, a traditional
landline phone, a cell phone billed to their Hayward
address, and all PG&E provided power may be paying
hundreds annually.

This is unjust, and it shouldn’t continue.
www.HevHavward .com

s/LAWRENCE M. JOHMANN
Hayward resident, property owner, and businessman

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST

MEASURE D

The opponent of Measure D is misinformed, misguided
and inaccurate.

Here are the facts:

Hayward voters approved Measure A in 2009 to prevent
devastating cuts to city services in the wake of the Great
Recession. Yet today, even with an improving economy; the
demand for city services has increased as City of Hayward
expenses also continue to rise.

Even with the UUT, the City of Hayward has slashed
budgets to the bone; reduced employee positions without
imposing layoffs; reached agreement with each employee
bargaining group to share more of the burden of their
employment benefits. All while maintaining a high level of
service. During this same period, ALL City of Hayward
employees went five years with absolutely no cost of living
increases in their salaries.

Like 150+ other jurisdictions in California, Hayward’s
Utility Users Tax is subject to state and Federal laws. That
some services, like satellite TV are not taxed, is the result
of Federal law and outside the control of the City.

More importantly, Hayward’s UUT funds now comprise
the City’s third largest revenue source. Approximately
75% of UUT funds (roughly $12 million/year) go directly
to public safety operations (police and fire).

Without this VITAL funding, the City will be forced to
make SEVERE service cuts.

Again, Measure D will NOT RAISE your tax rate. It
simply extends WITHOUT INCREASING the current rate
originally approved by voters. Legally, the State cannot
take this funding away.

Protect your investment in Hayward - without raising
your tax rate.

VOTE YES on D.

www.ProtectHavwardsFuture.com.

s/GREG JONES
Hayward City Council Member

s/JUDY HARRISON
President of Friends of Hayward Library and 33-Year
Hayward Resident

s/FRANK CRESPO
Hayward Firefighter, Local 1909 and Lifelong Resident

s/HEATHER ENDERS
Hayward Planning Commissioner

s/ANTONIO ISAIS
Hayward Community Services Commissioner,

Hayward student