IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF CITY ATTORNEY
MEASURE A

The City Council submitted a ballot measure for an ordinance that would enact a new
Vf-cent (0.5%) Transactions and Use (“Sales”) tax within the City of Orland. This tax is a
^neral purpose tax requiring a simple majority (50% +1) vote. If approved by the voters,
the tax will be deposited into the City of Orland’s general fund and will be used to support
and fund the Orland Volunteer Fire Department; replace and maintain Orland Volunteer
Fire Department first responder and emergency equipment, and maintain and support
other general funded City services. The tax ordinance requires independent auditors to
report on the collection, management and expenditure of the revenue generated the tax
increase. An annual report will be prepared for public review at a public hearing.

The existing sales tax is a combination of “sales and use tax” and “transactions and use
tax.” Retailers collect both taxes at the time of sale and remit the funds to the State Board
of Equalization, which administers the taxes. Both are levied on the retail sale or use of
personal property, with certain exceptions. A sales tax is allocated to the jurisdiction
where the sale is negotiated or the order for the sale is taken, but a transactions and use
tax is allocated to the City where the merchandise or goods are delivered or placed into
use. Merchandise purchased in a retail store is assumed by the state to be used within
the city in which the store is located, unless the retailer is asked to ship the merchandise
outside the city as part of the sale. This tax on retail sales is paid by non-residents as
well as residents. Certain necessities of life, including purchases of food or prescribed
medicine, are exempt from the tax.

State and local tax on retail sales in Orland is currently 7.5% of the purchase price. Of that
7.5%, 1.0% is currently allocated to the City of Orland. 6.25% is allocated to the State of
California and 0.25% is allocated to the local transportation fund. Measure A authorizes
a 0.5% local transactions and use tax, increasing the total sales tax rate in Orland from
7.5% to 8.0%. The City’s share of the sales tax—the local share of the sales tax—would
increase from 1.0% to 1.5%. The revenue generated by the tax increase proposed by
Measure A would go only to the City of Orland. If approved, these local funds may not be
taken by the State or any other governmental entity.

A “Yes” vote is a vote to approve the additional half-cent tax in Orland, with annual audits.
A “No” vote is a vote against the tax.

A full copy of the proposed ordinance may be obtained during business hours at the
Office of the City Clerk, City of Orland, City Hall Building, located at 815 Fourth St, Orland,
CA 95963. The ordinance is also available at: www.cityoforland.com/govt/MunicipalCo-
deAdditions.asp.

v |

Si Gregory P. Einhorn
City Attorney, City of Orland

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE A

Your “Yes on A” vote supports Orland public safety. First priority for funds collected from
Measure A will go to Orland Volunteer Fire Department equipment, then as needed to
police and public works safety equipment.

Your “Yes on A” vote supports the men and women of the Orland Volunteer Fire Depart-
ment. These brave, dedicated volunteers give so much time and personal risk for our
community. In return they have asked for up-to-date, reliable equipment so they can do
their job - saving our lives and property.

Your “Yes on A” vote will help buy fire engines and protective equipment for Orland fire-
fighters. Replacing OVFD’s worn out 1978 ladder truck is an $890,000 purchase. Fire
engines are over $400,000. Outfitting one firefighter with safety gear is over $3000 and
we have 50 volunteers. Public Works has old fire hydrants, street repair and other safety
equipment needing replacement.

Your “Yes on A” vote will help collect a nickel from every $10 purchase of fuel and other
taxable goods. 50<t on a $100 purchase. It applies to everyone who stops and shops in
Orland. It will not apply to groceries, medicine or services. The money collected in Orland
will stay in Orland - for residents of Orland and for visitors to Orland.

Water and sewer services are self-funded from the rates paid by customers of these
services. Public safety is an expense of the City general fund. Your elected City Council
members will be held accountable. Each year, the city will prepare a report showing
exactly how much was collected and exactly what public safety needs were paid for with
the money collected.

Like Corning, Red Bluff, Williams, Woodland, Yreka...most California cities already have
local sales taxes. Join us with your “Yes on A” vote to support Orland public safety.

s/ Bruce T. Roundy, Mayor, Orland City Council

s/ Bart Caster, Fire Chief, OVFD/Business Owner

s/ Jeff Gomes, Former Fire Chief, OVFD

s/ Justin Chaney, Assistant Fire Chief, OVFD/Business Owner

s/ John McDermott, Fire Captain, OVFD/Physician Assistant

11-510