RESOLUTION NO. 2016-29A

AUG 042016

IEUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
1'AKLIER AUTHORIZING A SPECIAL PARCEL TAX FOR POLICE
PROTECTION SERVICES TO BE DESIGNATED AS MEASURE
TO BE SUBMITTED TO THE VOTERS ON NOVEMBER 8, 2016

CN

CO

WHEREAS, the City of Parlier has experienced, and continues to face, a dramatic critical
decline in revenues and has reached a point where cutting expenses will not allow the City to
ease the structural deficit without further cutting essential City services; and

WHEREAS, this unprecedented financial situation is due to several factors, including the
declining total revenues for the City's General Fund and increasing general expenses to the
City such as the rising costs of fuel, electricity and supplies. This has made it impossible for
the City to balance its budget and still continue to provide critical services at an acceptable
level; and

WHEREAS, in order to address the imminent shortfall of an unacceptable magnitude, the
City has already negotiated certain position cuts and benefit reductions with the Police
Officers Association; and

WHEREAS, unless it is able to increase its revenues, the City would have to include further
cuts to public safety and other critical City services as a last resort; and

WHEREAS, because citizens of Parlier have expressed a strong desire to maintain public
safety as a top priority, the City is proposing a solution that would help maintain these
important services; and

WHEREAS, the City Council desires to adopt Ordinance No. 2016-03 to impose a special
parcel tax for police protection services, subject to a two-thirds majority voter approval, as
required by Cal. Const., art. XIIID, § 3(2) and as allowed by Government Code Section 53978;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED AND ORDERED by the City Council of the City of
Parlier as follows:

SECTION 1: The City Council submits to the voters of the City of Parlier at its next regular
municipal election to be held on November 8, 2016, a ballot measure for consideration of an
ordinance for establishment of a Special Parcel Tax for Police Protection Services.

2016 BUG 4 ah10’.3T«

SECTION 2: The City Council requests the Fresno County Board of Supervisors that the
election for this measure be consolidated with the statewide election also to be held on
November 8, 2016.

SECTION 3: The question to be submitted to the voters with respect to the ballot measure
shall be printed on the election ballot in the form set forth as follows:

To support local police services; maintain emergency response times and	
officer staffing levels; fight crime, drugs and gangs; shall City of Parlier levy	TAX-
a special parcel tax for police protection services only of $120.00 on each	YES
single-family home, and specified amounts for multi-family units; mobile	
home spaces; commercial, agricultural, and industrial parcels, as outlined in	
Ordinance No. 2016-03, providing an estimated $495,000 annually for five	TAX-
years, with independent annual audits, and benefiting City residents?	NO

SECTION 4: The following constitutes the synopsis of the measure to be voted on for
purposes of meeting the publication requirements of Election Code Section 12111:

MEASURE TO BE VOTED ON

Notice is hereby given that the following measure is to be voted on at the general
municipal election to be held in the City of Parlier, on Tuesday the 8th day of
November, 2016.

ADOPTION OF ORDINANCE APPROVING A SPECIAL PARCEL
TAX FOR POLICE PROTECTION SERVICES

This proposed ordinance adds Chapter 3.25 to Title 3 of the Parlier Municipal Code
establishing a special parcel tax to pay only for local police protection services for a
period of five years. If approved by a two-thirds majority of voters, the ordinance
would impose a tax in the amount of one hundred and twenty dollars ($120.00) on
each single-family residential parcel and each agricultural parcel, ninety-five dollars
($95.00) per unit on each multi-family residential parcel, nine hundred seventy five
dollars ($975.00) on each commercial parcel, twelve hundred dollars ($1200.00) on
each industrial parcel, and one hundred dollars ($100.00) per space on each mobile
home parcel. The parcel tax would be subject to an annual review report as well as
an oversight committee.

Dated:	tfdjhl	_____

City Elections Official
City of Parlier
-2-

SECTION 5: The full text of Ordinance 2016-03 is attached hereto as Exhibit A. The full text is
not required to be printed in the Sample Ballot and Voters Pamphlet. However, the full text of
the measure shall be made available at the office of the Fresno County Clerk/Registrar of
Voters and the Parlier City Clerk's Office (559-646-3545).

SECTION 6: Passage of this measure requires a two-thirds majority of votes.

SECTION 7: The City of Parlier requests that the Fresno County Clerk/Registrar of Voters
conduct the election and canvass the returns, and the City consents to reimburse the Registrar
of Voters for all costs incurred for these services.

SECTION 8: In all particulars not recited in this resolution, the election shall be held and
conducted as provided by law for holding municipal elections.

SECTION 9: Arguments in favor or against the proposed measure are permissible and shall
be filed with the Fresno County Clerk/Registrar of Voters in accordance with Elections Code
Section 9282. The City Manager and his staff are hereby directed to prepare and file a written
argument in favor of the proposed measure not to exceed 300 words on behalf of the City
Council. In the event an argument is filed against the measure, an argument against said
proposition, the City Manager and his staff shall prepare and file a rebuttal argument on
behalf of the City Council.

SECTION 10: Pursuant to Election Code 10002, the County Clerk/Registrar of Voters is
hereby requested to take all steps incident to the preparation for and the holding of the
election in accordance with law and these specifications.

SECTION 11: The City Attorney shall prepare an impartial analysis of the measure in
accordance with Elections Code Section 9280 and file it with the Fresno County
Clerk/Registrar of Voters.

SECTION 12: The City Clerk shall file a certified copy of this resolution with the Fresno
County Clerk/Registrar of Voters as required by law. The City Clerk is hereby authorized and
directed to work with the Fresno County Clerk/Registrar of Voters and take all steps
necessary to cause placement of the measure on the ballot.

SECTION 13: The City Clerk and the City Attorney are authorized to make any
typographical, clerical, non-substantive corrections to this resolution as may be deemed
necessary by the Fresno County Clerk/Registrar of Voters.

-3 -

The foregoing resolution was approved and adopted at a regular meeting of the City Council
of the City of Parlier held on the 03 day of August, 2016, by the following vote:

AYES: Beltran, Villanueva, Padilla, Maldonado, Montano
NOES: None
ABSTAIN: None
ABSENT: None

APPROVER "\

v	;

AJmadvTTBeltran, Mayor

ATTEST:

' |

j

Dorothy Garza
City Clerk

[00450064.9]

EXHIBIT “A” TO RESOLUTION NO. 2016-29A

ORDINANCE NO. 2016-03

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF PARLIER ADDING CHAPTER
3.25 TO TITLE 3 OF THE CITY OF PARLIER MUNICIPAL CODE
PERTAINING TO A SPECIAL PARCEL TAX FOR POLICE
PROTECTION SERVICES

THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF PARLIER DOES ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. Chapter 3.25 is added to Title 3 of the Parlier Municipal Code to read as
follows:

CHAPTER 3.25
POLICE SPECIAL PARCEL TAX

3.25.010	Imposition of Special Police Parcel Tax

3.25.020	Maximum Tax Amounts

3.25.030	Exemptions

3.25.040	Administrative Determinations;	Appeals Procedures

3.25.050	Accountability Measures

3.25.060	Collection With Property Taxes

3.25.070	Sunset Provision

3.25.010 Imposition of Police Special Parcel Tax. A special tax to fund police services
is hereby imposed on every parcel of land in the City of Parlier. The tax shall be imposed
each fiscal year in the amounts permitted by this Chapter. The tax imposed by this Chapter
shall be a tax upon each parcel of property within the City and the tax shall not be measured
by the value of the property.

3.25.020 Maximum Tax Amounts. The maximum annual amount of the tax imposed
on each parcel pursuant to this Chapter shall be determined as follows:

A.	A tax of one hundred twenty dollars ($120.00) shall be imposed on each
single-family residential parcel within the City. A “single-family residential parcel” shall
mean a parcel zoned to accommodate single-family residences.

B.	A tax of ninety-five dollars ($95.00) shall be imposed on each multi-family
residential unit within the City. A “multi-family residential unit” shall mean a building or
portion of a building designed for or occupied by one family which is part of a multi-family
residential unit parcel. A “multi-family residential unit parcel” shall mean a parcel zoned for
a building or those portions thereof that accommodate or is intended to accommodate two or
more residential units.

C.	A tax of nine hundred seventy-five dollars ($975.00) shall be imposed on
each commercial parcel within the City. A “commercial parcel” shall mean a parcel zoned
for commercial purposes within the City, and shall include any mixed-use zone having a
commercial component.

D.	A tax of twelve hundred dollars ($1200.00) shall be imposed on each
industrial parcel within the City. An “industrial parcel” shall mean a parcel zoned for light or
heavy manufacturing purposes within the City, and shall include any mixed-use zone having
an industrial component.

E.	A tax of one hundred twenty dollars ($120.00) shall be imposed on each
agricultural parcel within the City. An “agricultural parcel” shall mean a parcel zoned to
accommodate agricultural purposes only within the City.

F.	A tax of one hundred dollars ($100.00) shall be imposed on each space on a
mobile home parcel within the City. A “mobile home parcel” shall mean a parcel zoned to
accommodate a structure, transportable in one or more sections, designed to be used with or
without a permanent foundation, which contains not more than one dwelling unit, and
which is not a recreational vehicle, commercial coach or factory-built house.

G.	Vacant, undeveloped properties shall be taxed the same as the type of
property for which it is zoned. If the property is zoned for mixed-use, it shall be taxed at
the higher rate for the zoned, mixed uses.

3.25.030 Exemptions.

A.	Parcels owned by the City, federal or state government or any other public
agency and parcels owned by any public or private entity that are specifically exempted
from a parcel tax enacted as a special tax under applicable federal or state statue or
regulation shall be exempt from the imposition of the Special Parcel Tax set forth in this
Chapter.

B.	Private property owners claiming an exemption under subsection A above
shall file proof of exemption on a form prescribed by the City Manager prior to March 31
prior to the first fiscal year for which the exemption is sought.

3.25.040 Administrative Determinations; Appeal Procedures.

A.	The records of the Fresno County Assessor as of March 1 of each year shall
be used to determine each parcel for the calculation of the tax applicable to that parcel in the
following fiscal year.

B.	The City Manager, or authorized designee, shall administer the Special Parcel
Tax under this Chapter.

C.	Appeals of any determination of the City Manager shall be submitted in writing
to the City Clerk within 30 days of the date of the notice of the determination. The City

2

Council shall consider the appeal and issue a decision to the appellant in writing not later than
June 30 of the fiscal year prior to imposition of the tax.

3.25.050 Accountability Measures.

A.	Special Fund; Use of Proceeds. In accordance with Government Code
section 53978, the proceeds of the tax imposed by this Chapter shall be placed in a special
fund and shall be dedicated and used only for approved police protection services as
authorized by majority vote of the City Council.

B.	Independent Oversight Committee. The City Council shall establish an
independent Oversight Committee to review the Annual Report, as described below, on
issues relating to the use of the special tax proceeds set forth in this Chapter. The Oversight
Committee will independently review the use and expenditure of the tax proceeds and shall
present an annual report to the City Council.

1.	The Oversight Committee shall consist of three (3) members, each shall
be a resident of the City of Parlier, who shall serve without compensation. The members
shall be nominated by the City Manager following a review of their qualifications and
appointed by City Council approval.

2.	Members shall serve two-year terms, and each member shall serve until
a successor is duly appointed and confirmed. Members are limited to a maximum of two
consecutive terms. The expiration date of all terms shall be May 1. Any vacancy shall be
filled for the remainder of the unexpired term. The Oversight Committee shall select a Chair
from among its members annually. The Chair will serve a one-year term with the option of
reappointment for one additional one-year term.

3.	The Oversight Committee shall meet at least twice annually with
additional meetings convened as necessary and as determined by the Chair, and shall set an
attendance policy for the members.

C.	Annual Review Report. An Annual Review Report shall be prepared by the
Oversight Committee with support from the City Manager, or his designee, setting forth the
amount of revenues received under the Special Tax and the amount and purpose of
disbursements. The purpose is to assure accountability and the proper disbursement of the
proceeds of the Special Tax. The Annual Review Report shall be presented to the City
Council not later than January 31st following each fiscal year in which the tax is collected.
The Annual Review Report shall be filed with and maintained in the City Clerk’s office.

3.25.060 Collection With Property Taxes. The special tax imposed by this Chapter
shall be due in the same manner, on the same dates, and subject to the same penalties and interest
as established by law for other charges and taxes fixed and collected by the County of Fresno on
behalf of the City of Parlier. The special tax imposed by this Chapter, together with all penalties
and interest thereon, shall constitute a lien upon the parcel upon which it is levied until it has
been paid, and shall constitute a person obligation of the owners of the parcel on the date the tax
is due.

3

3.25.070 Sunset Clause. The special tax described in this Chapter will sunset and
expire by operation of law on June 30, 2022.

SECTION 2. Severability. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause phrase, or portion
of this ordinance is for any reason held to be invalid or unenforceable by a court of
competent jurisdiction, the remaining sections, subsections, sentences, clauses, phrases or
portions of this ordinance shall nonetheless remain in full force and effect. The people of the
City of Parlier hereby declare that they would have adopted each section, subsection,
sentence, clause, phrase, or portions of this ordinance be declared invalid or unenforceable.

SECTION 3. Two-Thirds Approval: Effective Date. The tax imposed by this ordinance
is a special tax. This ordinance shall be effective only if approved by two-thirds of the City’s
voters voting thereon on November 8, 2016, at the general election and shall go into effect
immediately after the result of the vote is declared by the City Council. The City Manager is
directed to convey to the County information as necessary to ensure the measure is effective on
the next available tax roll.

********

INTRODUCED at a special meeting of the Council on the 27th day of July, 2016.

PASSED AND ADOPTED as an ordinance of the City of Parlier at a regular meeting of

said Council on the___day	of	August,	2016,	subject	to a two-thirds vote of the Voters of

the City of Parlier, County of Fresno, at a regular election held on November 8, 2016.

PUBLICATION AND CERTIFICATION. The City Clerk shall publish this ordinance, or
a summary thereof, as required by applicable law. Upon approval by the voters, the City
Clerk shall certify the passage of this ordinance by the voters, forward a copy of the adopted
ordinance to the County of Fresno, and cause the ordinance to be codified in the Parlier
Municipal Code.

APPROVED:

Alma M. Beltran, Mayor

ATTEST:

Dorothy Garza
City Clerk

4

[00452028.4.1]