BALLOT MEASURE SUBMITTAL
FORM

Official Use Only: Date Stamp

BALLOT MEASURE QUESTION	
Jurisdiction Name: ro i .  City of San Leandro	Election Date: Novembe|. 0, 2016

Note: The information as it appears within the measure question text box will be printed on the ballot.
Insert ballot title/question text here:

To maintain and enhance the City of San Leandro, with funding that cannot be
taken by Sacramento, including: social services, public art, programs that
celebrate diversity, multilingual programming and other general city services,
shall the City of San Leandro levy an ongoing tax of up to 10% of gross
receipts of cannabis (marijuana) businesses in the city, providing $500,000
annually, requiring independent citizen oversight, financial audits, and that all
funds stay in the City of San Leandro?

YES

NO

PERCENTAGE NEEDED TO PASS

50+1 %

FULL TEXT OPTION

Full Text to be printed in the Voter Information Pamphlet:

B YES (note: electronic version must be submitted via e-mail or on a CD)
□ NO

AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE

Print		Date:
		
CONTACT INFORMATION (for office use)	CONTACT INFORMATION (for public)	
Phone	phone 510-577-3367	
	E-Mail/VVebsite:  www.sanleandro.org	

CITY OF SAN LEANDRO MEASURE____________

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

(CANNABIS BUSINESS TAX)

If Measure ____ (Cannabis	Business Tax) is passed by the voters, it would amend Title 2

(Revenue) of San Leandro’s Municipal Code to add Chapter 2-21, establishing a new cannabis
business tax.

The tax would apply to all for profit and non-profit entities involved in cannabis-related business
activities within the City of San Leandro, including cultivation, transportation, processing and
manufacture, storing or selling cannabis or any of its derivatives, as further defined by State law.
The tax would also apply to the sale of medical cannabis, and any products containing medical
cannabis or generated from medical cannabis. The tax would not be imposed on persons
engaged only in personal cultivation on personal property for personal consumption in
accordance with current State law. If approved, each cannabis business would pay a tax, as set
by the City Council, of up to and including 10% of gross receipts, or for example, $100 per
$1,000 of gross receipts, payable directly to the City. If the tax is initially set by the City Council
at between 5% and 7%, the City estimates that the tax could provide $500,000 in annual revenue.
The ordinance would also require cannabis businesses to provide monthly reports showing the
businesses’ annual gross receipts to date.

The proposed cannabis business tax is a general tax the proceeds of which the City could use for
any legal municipal purpose. The tax would be ongoing. This measure was placed on the ballot
by a unanimous vote of the San Leandro City Council. California Constitution, Article XIII(C),
Section 2(b) requires that the electorate approve a new general tax by a majority vote before the
City can establish the new tax.

A “yes” vote would approve the ordinance that would establish a cannabis-related business tax
and allow the City Council to set the tax that the City could charge cannabis-related businesses
up to and including 10% of gross receipts.

A “no” vote does not approve the ordinance, and does not establish the tax.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure_. If you desire a copy of the

ordinance, please call the City Clerk’s office at 510-577-3367, and a copy will be mailed at no
cost to you.

DATED: August 2, 2016

Richard D. Pio Roda, City Attorney
City of San Leandro, California

Argument in Favor of Measure X - Cannabis Gross Receipts Tax

Vote YES on X—San Leandro’s marijuana tax measure. Protect property values and quality
community services, WITHOUT taxing San Leandro’s residents or property owners.

•	YES on X, Y and Z provides shelters for abused women and children

•	YES on X, Y and Z fixes potholes and repairs city streets

•	YES on X, Y and Z improves 911 emergency response times and provides a seismically safe
police operations center

•	YES on X, Y and Z enhances safety net programs for homeless and at-risk adults and children

•	YES on X, Y and Z updates the police operations center and technology so San Leandro Police
Department's crime prevention efforts will be more effective

•	YES on X, Y and Z attracts new businesses and create jobs in San Leandro

•	YES on X, Y and Z provides essential upgrades to our Library, including space for children's
story times, a homework center, public access computers and free wi-fi at Mulford-Marina
Branch

Sacramento politicians take $12,000,000 annually from San Leandro. Funding generated by Measures
X, Y and Z replaces this funding, giving San Leandro taxpayers LOCAL control over LOCAL funds for
LOCAL needs.

NO funds can be taken by Sacramento politicians.

NO money raised from Measures X, Y and Z will be used for administrator salaries.

YES on X, Y and Z are fiscally accountable. All three measures require independent citizen
oversight, mandatory financial audits, and yearly reports to the community to ensure that money is
spent as promised.

Voting YES on X, Y and Z protects San Leandro property values by maintaining quality services,
parks, open space and safe neighborhoods, all WITHOUT RAISING YOUR TAXES.

Join a unanimous City Council and San Leandro’s police officers, firefighters, teachers, neighborhood
community leaders and business leaders in voting YES on X, Y and Z!

For factual information about these measures, visit www.citvofsanleandro.org

Remember to VOTE LOCAL in this busy election! Join us.

Rebuttal to Argument in Favor of Measure__(Cannabis Business Tax)

The San Leandro City Council makes great promises about how the funds collected by
the Measure taxes will be spent, but the Council has a terrible record of actually keeping its
word. Just two years ago, they told us we needed to raise taxes through Measure HH to pay for
repairing our roads. Alas, according to the Measure HH Citizen's Oversight Committee report,
only 5% of the money was used for that purpose. The rest went on to fund regular city
expenses. Given such precedent, it would be foolish to believe the funds from Measure X will
be spent as promised.

But even if they were, Measure X is a profoundly flawed tax. It seeks to have the City
profit from the ailments of its citizens. Cancer patients looking for relief from the debilitating
effects of chemotherapy, veterans using marijuana to relieve their PTSD symptoms and
Multiple-Sclerosis patients looking for relief from pain and spasms should not be looked upon by
the City as cash cows, a population whose medical needs can be exploited to fill the City's
coffers.

The San Leandro City Council should work to improve public health in the City and
provide services to its ill and disabled citizens. It should not seek to profit from their misery.

Vote NO on Measure !

1)	Signed____________________________________

Name: Terry Floyd

Title: Treasure, Libertarian Party of Alameda County

2)	Signed____________________________________

Name: Stephen Carbonaro
Title: Retired

3)	Signed

Name: Margarita Lacabe

Title: Human Rights Activist

4)	Signed____________________

Name: Francis Leidy
Title: Business Owner

Argument Against San Leandro Measure______________(Cannabis	Business	Tax)

Just as the City Council finally woke up in the 21st Century and recognized the need for a
licensed medical cannabis dispensary in San Leandro (which has been legal in California since
the late 20th Century), they decided that the price of this critical medicine is far too low. Now
they want to impose a new 10% tax on it (over and above our already exorbitant 10% sales tax).
Medical insurance policies won’t cover this cost, so they are taking money from sick people to
line their own pockets. Their compassion has been overcome by their greed.

They anticipate a new tax windfall, and naively assume that Proposition 64 will pass in
November and recreational cannabis will be legalized statewide so they can make even more
money, because they’ve now licensed two such establishments. But this is by no means
guaranteed. Proposition 19 narrowly failed in 2010 and Proposition 64 faces strong opposition
from many voters and even staunch cannabis activists who once endorsed earlier legalization
proposals.

Medical Marijuana, however, has been legal since 1996 and is vital to the quality of life
of many disabled adults and senior citizens who depend on it for their health and well-being.
Senior citizens, AIDS patients and chronic pain sufferers were the driving force behind
Proposition 215 when the Libertarian Party helped gather signatures in San Leandro to legalize
medical marijuana back in 1996.

It has taken 20 long years for this city to finally respond to the pressing need for a local
dispensary to provide convenient access to cannabis, but now they want to exploit it for their
own purposes. This proposal will tax cannabis sold in our city at double the rate imposed on
identical businesses in Oakland.

Don’t rob sick people to raise public servant salaries. Vote NO on the cannabis tax.

Rebuttal to argument against Measure NN (cannabis gross receipts tax)

In 1996, California voters authorized the legal use of medical marijuana. The State of California now collects
over $49,000,000 in sales tax from medical marijuana annually, while San Leandro receives almost nothing.
Many cities and counties are taxing these businesses and generating revenue to support local community
services.

YES on NN simply allows San Leandro to tax and regulate marijuana businesses as other cities, counties and
states have already done.

Voting YES on NN is a first step in regulating these businesses locally, to ensure patients receive safe medicine
and public safety is maintained. All revenue generated will benefit OUR local services.

YES on NN requires marijuana businesses to pay taxes just like every other San Leandro business—they
shouldn’t be exempt from paying their fair share! The City will have the authority to regulate, audit and ensure
payments just like it does for everyone else.

Here’s what Measure NN WON’T do:

Measure NN WON’T tax patients, disabled adults or seniors.

Measure NN is NOT a tax on San Leandro residents or property owners.

The revenue generated by voting YES on NN and Measures PP & OO will be used exclusively for
maintaining vital San Leandro services such as: providing shelter for abused women/children; fixing
potholes and repairing city streets; improving 911 emergency response times; enhancing safety net
programs for homeless and at-risk adults & children; and providing essential improvements to the San
Leandro Library.

Join a unanimous Mayor and City Council and San Leandrans from every neighborhood:

Vote YES on OO, NN & PP!

1)	Signed____________________________________

Name: Pauline Russo Cutter
Title: Mayor, City of San Leandro

2)	Signed____________________________________

Name: Lawrence Allphin, Jr.

Title: Vice President, San Leandro Downtown Association

3)	Signed______________________________________

Name: Dan Dillman

Title: Medical Cannabis Advocate/Historical BAL Theater Owner

Attachment 1

An ORDINANCE Adopting A Cannabis Business Tax

BE IT ORDAINED by the Council of the City of San Leandro as follows:

Section 1. That a new Chapter 2-21 is hereby added to the San Leandro
Municipal Code to read as follows:

Chapter 2-21

Sections  2-21-100  2-21-200  2-21-300  2-21-400  2-21-450  2-21-500  2-21-600  2-21-700  2-21-800  2-21-900  2-21-1000  2-21-1100  2-21-1200  2-21-1300  2-21-1400  2-21-1500	CANNABIS BUSINESS TAX  Short Title.  Purpose and intent.  Definitions.  Payment of tax.  Declaration statement required.  Payment-Timing.  Audit of declaration statement and payment.  Notice not required by city.  Tax deemed debt to city.  Deficiency determinations.  Tax assessment - Nonpayment - Fraud.  Tax assessment - Notice requirements.  Tax assessment - Hearing.  Remedies for chapter violation - Taxes not waived. Amendments of Chapter.  Administrative Regulations.
2-21-100 Short title.	

This chapter is known as the City of San Leandro cannabis business tax ordinance.

2-21-200. Purpose and mtent................................................................

This chapter is enacted solely to raise revenue for municipal purposes and is not
intended for regulation.

2-21-300. Def init jons....................................................................

A.	“Annual gross receipts” means the gross receipts produced by the cannabis business
during the 12-month period between issuance and renewal of the business license for
the cannabis business.

B.	“Building” means any structure having a roof supported by a columns or by walls and
designed for the shelter or housing of any person, chattel or property of any kind, or
anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires location on the ground or
attachment to something having location on the ground.

C.	“Business improvements" means square footage used, on a regular basis, for the
operation of a nonprofit organization as defined in Article XIII, Section 26 of the
California Constitution, or a for profit organization organized in a manner that is
recognized by the California Secretary of State regardless of whether it is owned or
leased.

D.	“Cannabis business” means any business or activity including, but not limited to,
planting, cultivation, harvesting, transporting, manufacturing, extracting, compounding,
converting, processing, preparing, storing, packaging, testing, or wholesale and/or retail
sales of marijuana, any part of the Cannabis plant, as defined by California Business
and Professions Code section 19300.5, as that section may be amended from time to
time, or any of its derivatives, and specifically excludes the activity of cultivating medical
cannabis or any of its derivatives on personal property for personal consumption in
accordance with the provisions of the Medical Marijuana Regulation and Safety Act of
2015 by the owner, lawful occupant, or other lawful resident or guest of the private
property owner, or lawful occupant.

E.	“Discontinued, dissolved or otherwise terminated” means the date the cannabis
business is no longer in operation. The City’s finance director, using all evidence,
including evidence provided by the cannabis business licensee, will make the
determination as to whether a cannabis business has been discontinued, dissolved or
otherwise terminated.

F.	“Gross receipts” means the total of the amounts actually received or receivable from
sales and the total amounts actually received or receivable for the performance of any
act or service for which a charge is made or credit allowed, whether or not such act or
service is done as a part of or in conjunction with the sale of materials, goods, wares, or
merchandise. Included in gross receipts are all receipts, cash, credits and property of
any kind without deduction of the cost of the property sold, the cost of the materials

used, labor or service costs, interest paid or payable, or losses or other expenses
whatsoever. Excluded from gross receipts are the following:

1.	Cash discounts allowed and taken on sales;

2.	Credit allowed on property accepted as part of the purchase price and
which property may later be sold;

3.	Any tax required by law to be included in or added to the purchase price
and collected from the consumer or purchaser;

4.	Such part of the sale price of property returned by purchases upon
rescission of the contract of sale as is refunded either in cash or by credit.

G.	“Licensee” or “cannabis business licensee” means a person who has been issued a
special permit or license for operation of a cannabis business within the City.

H.	“Nonprofit organization” means any association, corporation or other entity that is
exempt from taxation measured by income or gross receipts under Article XIII, Section
26 of the California Constitution.

I.

2-21-400 Tax Imposed.................................................................

In addition to any requirements imposed elsewhere in the San Leandro Municipal Code,
for the privilege of operating a cannabis business in the City, an annual tax is hereby
imposed on each licensee operating a cannabis business as follows:

A.	Every cannabis business must pay an annual tax of $100 for each $1,000 of gross
receipts.

B.	The city council may impose the tax authorized by this section at a lower rate. No
action taken by the city council under this subsection to reduce the tax rate will prevent
it from subsequently increasing the tax rate for cannabis business to the maximum rate
specified in this section.

2-21-450.Declaration statement required.......

A.	At the time of payment of the taxes imposed by this chapter, each cannabis business
licensee must file with the City finance department a statement, under oath, showing
the true and correct amount of annual gross receipts derived from the cannabis
business allowed by the special permit or license issued to the licensee. A signed
declaration must be attached to the statement included therein, which will be in
substantially the same form as: “I hereby declare under penalty of perjury that the
foregoing is true and correct.” The City has the right to audit the matters reported in the
statement to determine the accuracy of the figures contained therein.

2-21-500 Payment - Timing.

A.	All taxes imposed by this chapter on a cannabis business whether it is a nonprofit
organization or a for-profit business must be paid to the City’s finance department on or
before the fifteenth day after the close of the month for which the tax is due. Licensees
or operators of cannabis businesses must file a monthly report with the City, even if
there are no taxes currently due. The report will show the annual gross receipts to date
as of the close of the prior month and will be used to calculate the amount of tax due.
Payment will accompany the form. The form will be provided by the City and the City
may revise the report without advance notice from time to time. Payment of taxes
imposed by this chapter must be in the correct amount of taxes due and owing. Such
sums correctly reflecting taxes will be accepted by the City, subject, however, to the
City’s right to conduct an audit.

B.	If any licensee or operator of a cannabis business is liable for any amount of tax,
interest or penalty under this chapter, and he or she sells or otherwise disposes of the
business, his or her successors or assigns must withhold from the purchase price a sum
sufficient to cover such amount until the former licensee or operator produces from the
City either a receipt reflecting full payment or a certificate stating that no amount is due.

C.	If the purchaser of a cannabis business fails to withhold a sum from the purchase
price as required in subsection (B) of this section, he/she will be personally liable for the
payment of the amount required to be withheld by him to the extent of the purchase
price.

2-21-600 Audjt of declaration .statement and.payment.

A.	The City has the right to audit the matters referred to in the declaration statement,
and to determine the correctness of the figures set forth in such statement, and the
amount payable to the City.

B.	The books, records and accounts of any licensee may be inspected and audited by
the City.

C.	Such an inspection and audit may be performed by the City’s finance director or his
designee, a qualified accountant, a city official selected by the finance director, or a
consultant selected by the finance director.

D.	To facilitate such audits, the licensee must keep complete records of all transactions
related to the receipt or disbursement of funds arising out of or related to cannabis
business operations during the preceding three-year period. All such records must be
made available to the City for audit at the licensee’s place of doing business or such
other place that the City may designate during normal business hours after reasonable
prior notice.

E.	Any failure or refusal of any licensee to make and file a declaration statement within
the required time period, or to pay such sums by way of taxes when the same are due
and payable in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, or to permit such
inspection of such books, records and accounts of such licensee will be and constitute
full and sufficient grounds for suspension or revocation of any special business license
or permit for operation of a cannabis business.

2-21-700 Notjce not required. by .City...............................................

The City is not required to send a delinquency or other notice or bill to any person
subject to the provisions of this chapter, and failure to send such notice or bill will not
affect the validity of any tax, interest or penalty due under the provisions of this chapter.

2-21-800 Tax. .deemed debt to Cjty...................................................

The amount of any tax, penalties and interest imposed by the provisions of this chapter
will be deemed a debt to the City, and any licensee carrying on any business without
having paid to the City the tax under this chapter will be liable to an action in the name

of the City in any court of competent jurisdiction for the amount of the tax, and penalties
and interest imposed on such business.

2-21-900.Deficiency determinations,................................................

A.	If the finance director is not satisfied that a declaration statement filed, as required
under the provisions of this chapter, is correct, or that the amount of tax is correctly
computed, the finance director may compute and determine the amount to be paid and
make a deficiency determination upon the basis of the facts contained in the declaration
statement or upon the basis of any information in the City’s possession or that may
come into the City’s possession.

B.	The City may make more than one deficiency determination of the amount of tax due
for a period or periods.

C.	In the case of a cannabis business which is discontinued, dissolved or otherwise
terminated, a deficiency determination may be made at any time within three years
thereafter as to any liability arising from engaging in such business whether or not a
deficiency determination is issued prior to the date the tax would otherwise be due.

D.	Whenever a deficiency determination is made, the City will provide 15 calendar days’
notice to the licensee.

2-21-1000 Tax assessment -.Nonpayment - Fraud......................................

A. Under any of the following circumstances, the finance director may make and give
notice of an assessment of the amount of tax owed by a cannabis business under this
chapter:

1.	If the licensee has not filed any declaration statement required under the
provisions of this chapter;

2.	If the licensee has not paid any tax due under the provisions of this
chapter;

3.	If the licensee has not, after demand by the finance director, filed a
corrected declaration statement or furnished to the finance director
adequate substantiation of the information contained in a statement of

revenue already filed, or paid any additional amount of tax due under the
provisions of this chapter.

B.	The notice of assessment will separately set forth the amount of any tax known or
estimated by the finance director to be due, after full consideration of all information
within his or her knowledge concerning the cannabis business activities of the person or
licensee assessed and will include the amount of any penalties, costs or interest
accrued on each amount to the date of the notice of assessment.

.2-21-1100.Tax assessment -.Notice requirements........................................

The notice of assessment will be served upon the licensee either by personal service on
the licensee, or by depositing the notice in the United States mail, postage prepaid
thereon, addressed to the licensee at the address of the location of the business
appearing on the face of the business license(s) issued under Title 2 to the licensee, or
to such other address as the licensee registers with the finance director for the purpose
of receiving notices provided under this chapter. For the purposes of this section,
service by mail is complete at the time of deposit in the United States mail.

2-2.1-1200 Tax assessment -.Hearing....................................................

A.	Within 10 days after the date of service of a notice issued under section 2-21-1100,
the licensee may apply in writing to the finance director for a hearing on the
assessment.

B.	If application for a hearing before the finance director is not made within the time
herein prescribed, the tax assessed by the finance director will become final and
conclusive.

C.	Within 30 days of the receipt of any such application for hearing, the finance director
will cause the matter to be set for hearing before him or her not later than 30 days after
the date of application, unless a later date is agreed to by the finance director and the
licensee requesting the hearing.

D.	Notice of such hearing will be given by the finance director to the licensee requesting
such hearing not later than five days prior to such hearing. At such hearing, said

licensee may appear and offer evidence why the assessment as made by the finance
director should not be confirmed and fixed as a tax.

E.	After such hearing, the finance director will make a written determination and may at
his discretion reassess the proper tax to be charged and will give written notice thereof
to the licensee.

2-21-1300.Remedies for.chapter;violation - T^......................................

A.	Nothing in this chapter limits the city from using any remedy legally available for
violations of this chapter, including, but not limited to, the penalties under Chapter 1-12
of the San Leandro Municipal Code.

B.	The conviction and punishment of any person for failure to pay the required tax will
not excuse or exempt such person from any civil action for the tax debt unpaid at the
time of such conviction.

C.	No civil action will prevent a criminal prosecution for any violation of the provisions of
this chapter or of any state law requiring the payment of all taxes.

2-21-1300 Amendments of Chapter.

The City Council may amend this Chapter at any time as long as the amendments do
not increase the tax or, change the method of calculating the tax.

2-21-1500 Administrative Regulations.

The City Manager may adopt administrative regulations as needed to implement this
Chapter.

Section 2. CEQA. This Ordinance is exempt from the California
Environmental Quality Act (Public Resources Code §21000, “CEQA”) pursuant to CEQA
guidelines 15060, “Preliminary Review,” subdivision (c)(2) in that it will not result in a
direct or reasonably foreseeable indirect physical change in the environment; and
15378, “Project,” subdivisions (2) and (4) of subdivision (b), in that this tax does not
constitute a project under CEQA and therefore review under CEQA is not required.

Section 3. Severability.

If any part or provision of this ordinance, or the application of this ordinance to any
person or circumstance, is held invalid, the remainder of this ordinance, including the
application of such part or provisions to other persons or circumstances, shall not be
affected by such a holding and shall continue in full force and effect. To this end, the
provisions of this ordinance are severable.

Section 4. Effective Date. This Ordinance shall take effect immediately after
approval by the voters of the ballot measure related hereto.