APPROVED BY THE
CONTRA COSTA
TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY

RE:

CONTRA COSTA

transportation

authority

RESOLUTION 16-41-P

£OQrd C\erK

A RESOLUTION OF THE CONTRA COSTA TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY, CALLING
AND REQUESTING THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS OF CONTRA COSTA COUNTY TO
CALL AND CONSOLIDATE AN ELECTION SUBMITTING TO THE QUALIFIED VOTERS A
BALLOT MEASURE SEEKING APPROVAL OF A ONE-HALF PERCENT TRANSACTIONS
AND USE TAX

WHEREAS, Chapter 5 of Division 19 of the Public Utilities Code and Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code authorize the Contra Costa Transportation Authority ("Authority") to impose a retail
transactions and use tax in the incorporated and unincorporated territory of a county if the tax
ordinance is adopted by a two-thirds vote of the Authority and imposition of the tax is approved by two-
thirds of electors voting on the measure and a transportation expenditure plan is adopted;-and

WHEREAS, Section 7291 of Revenue and Taxation Code, as amended by Assembly Bill 1665 (Reg. Sess.
2015-2016), authorizes the Contra Costa Transportation Authority to impose a transactions and use tax
for the support of countywide transportation programs at a rate of no more than 0.5 percent that
would, in combination with all taxes imposed pursuant to Part 1,6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, exceed the limit established in Section 7251.1; and

WHEREAS, the Authority currently imposes a retail transactions and use tax in the incorporated and
unincorporated territory of Contra Costa County, and wishes to increase such tax for special
governmental purposes at an additional rate of one-half percent (0.5%) on the sale of tangible personal
property and the storage, use, or other consumption of such property; and

WHEREAS, the Authority, the Contra Costa County Board of Supervisors, and all of the city councils
representing both a majority of the cities in the county and a majority of the population residing in the
incorporated areas of the county adopted a transportation expenditure plan in accordance with Public
Utilities Code section 180206; and

WHEREAS, on July 20, 2016, the Authority held a public meeting after due notice regarding the adoption
of Ordinance 16-03 proposing a retail transactions and use tax in the incorporated and unincorporated
territory of Contra Costa County ("Ordinance") and adopted the Ordinance; and

WHEREAS, Section 180201 of the Public Utilities Code authorizes the Authority to request the Board of
Supervisors of Contra Costa County to call an election for the purpose of submitting the Ordinance to
the qualified electors; and

WHEREAS, Section 180203 of the Public Utilities Code provides that the County of Contra Costa shall
conduct the election called by the Board of Supervisors in the same manner provided by law for the
conduct of special elections by the County; and

WHEREAS, the Authority desires to request the Board of Supervisors of the Contra Costa County to call
and order a special election to be consolidated with the statewide general election to be held on
Tuesday, November 8, 2016; to request the Board of Supervisors of Contra Costa County to take any and
all necessary steps to conduct the consolidated election; and to order an election on the Ordinance and

38043.17000\29040273 I

1

consolidate the special election of the Ordinance with the statewide election to be held on November 8,
2016.

NOW, THEREFORE, THE CONTRA COSTA TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY DOES HEREBY RESOLVE AS
FOLLOWS:

Section 1. Findings. The Authority finds that the foregoing recitals are true and correct and are
hereby incorporated and adopted as findings and determinations by the Authority as if fully set forth
herein.

Section 2. Call, Consolidation and Conduct of Election.

a.	Pursuant to Sections 180201 and 18203 of the Public Utilities Code the Authority calls and requests
the Board of Supervisors of Contra Costa County to call a special election for the purpose of
submitting the Ordinance to the qualified electors.

b.	Pursuant to California Elections Code section 10400 and following, the Authority hereby requests
that the Board of Supervisors of the County of Contra Costa consent to the consolidation of the
election for the Ordinance with the statewide General Election to be held on Tuesday, November 8,
2016. The consolidated election shall be held and conducted, election officers appointed, voting
precincts designated, ballots printed, polls opened and closed, ballots counted and returned, returns
canvassed, results declared, certificates of election issued, and all other proceedings incidental to
and connected with the election shall be regulated and done by Contra Costa County in accordance
with the provisions of law regulating the regularly scheduled statewide General Election, including
but not limited to, California Elections Code section 10418.

c.	The Board of Supervisors is requested to issue instructions to the Contra Costa County elections
official to take any and all steps necessary for the holding of the consolidated election, including
preparation of arguments for and against the measure and the impartial analysis, canvassing the
returns of that election with respect to the votes cast in the County and certifying the results to the
Authority.

d.	The Authority recognizes that additional costs will be incurred by the County by reason of this
consolidation and agrees to reimburse the County for all costs.

e.	The Board Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to cooperate with the Contra Costa County
elections official and to follow the procedures and meet all deadlines established by Contra Costa
County.

Section 3. Sample Ballot and Voter Information Handbook. Pursuant to Section 180203 of the
Public Utilities Code, the sample ballot mailed pursuant to Elections Code 13303 shall include the full
proposition set forth in Section 5 of this Resolution and the voter information handbook shall include
the text of the entire adopted transportation expenditure plan, a summary of the Ordinance, and a
statement in bold in the impartial analysis that a copy of the Ordinance can be obtained, at no cost, at
the Authority's location.

Section 4. Submission of Proposed Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance. Pursuant to
Government Code section 53724, any other applicable requirements of State law, and as otherwise set
forth herein, the Authority hereby orders the Ordinance attached hereto as Exhibit A and by this

38043.17000\29040273.1

2

reference incorporated herein and made an operative part hereof, to be submitted to the qualified
voters of the incorporated and unincorporated territory of the Contra Costa County at the statewide
election to be held on Tuesday, November 8, 2016. The Authority approved the ordinance by a two-
thirds vote of all Commissioners of the Authority. The ordinance shall become effective if a majority of
the qualified voters of the incorporated and unincorporated territory of Contra Costa County voting on
the ballot measure set forth in Section 5 below vote in favor of the ballot measure.

Section 5. Ballot Measure. In addition to any other matters required by law, there shall be
presented to the voters the question printed substantially as follows:

Measure :		
To implement a Transportation Expenditure Plan to continue:  •	Repairing potholes/fixing roads;  •	Improving BART capacity/reliability;  •	Improving Highways 680, 80, 24, and 4;  •	Enhancing bus/transit including for seniors and people with disabilities;  •	Increasing bicycle/pedestrian safety;  •	Improving air quality;  •	Reducing traffic;  shall voters adopt the ordinance augmenting the sales tax by '/2%, raising ninety-seven million dollars for transportation improvements annually for 30 years with independent oversight, audits, and all money benefitting local residents?	YES	
	NO	

Section 6. Notice and Publication of Ballot Measure.

a.	The Board Clerk shall, not later than the 88th day prior to the election to be held on Tuesday,
November 8, 2016, file with the Contra Costa County Board of Supervisors and the Contra Costa
County elections official a certified copy of this Resolution.

b.	The Board Clerk is authorized and directed to give notice required by law.

38043.17000V29040273.1

3

1.	Section 7. CEQA. The approval of this Resolution is not a "project" and, alternatively, is
exempt from the California Environmental Quality Act ("CEQA"). The transactions and use
tax to be submitted to the voters is a special tax that will be used to fund programs
identified in the transportation expenditure plan; it is not a commitment to any particular
action. Thus, it is not a CEQA "approval" that "commits the agency to a definite
course of action." (State CEQA Guidelines section 15B52.) Further, under CEQA
Guidelines section 15378(b)(4), the tax is not a project within the meaning of CEQA because,
as the tax is merely "[t]he creation of [a] government funding mechanism[] or other fiscal
activity which do[es] not involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in
a potentially significant physical impact on the environment." (Cal. Code Regs., tit. 14, §
15378, subd. (b)(4).) The timing, design, and approval of individual projects to be
funded by the tax (if adopted by the voters) are dependent on funding availability,
need, and CEQA review. Thus, the adoption of this Resolution has no potential for
causing a significant effect on the environment and is, therefore, exempt from
further review under CEQA. (State CEQA Guidelines section 15061(b)(3).)

Section 8. Severability. If any provision or clause of this Resolution, the measure proposed by the
Resolution, or any application of any of the foregoing to any person or circumstance is held invalid,
unconstitutional, or otherwise repealed by act of law, such invalidity shall not affect any other
provisions or clauses of the same, which can be given effect without the invalid provision, clause, or
application. To this end, the provisions and clauses of this Resolution and the proposed measure are
hereby declared to be severable.

Section 9. Effective Date. This Resolution shall take effect immediately on its adoption.

This RESOLUTION was entered into at a special meeting of the Contra Costa Transportation
Authority Board held July 20, 2016 in Walnut Creek, California by the following vote:

AYES:	Chair Hudson, Vice Chair Butt, and Commissioners Abelson, Arnerich, Durant,

Glover, Mitchoff, Pierce, Romick, Tatzin, and Taylor

NOES:	None

ABSENT:	None

ABSTAIN:	None

Tarienne Grover, Board Clerk

38043.17000U9040273.I

4

EXHIBIT A

ORDINANCE 16-03
[Attached behind this page]

38043.17000X29040273.1

5

Exhibit A to Ordinance 16-03

CONTRA COSTA

transportation

authority

ORDINANCE 16-03

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CONTRA COSTA TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY
IMPOSING A TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX TO BE
ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION

WHEREAS, Chapter 5 of Division 19 of the Public Utilities Code and Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code authorize the Contra Costa Transportation Authority to impose a
retail transactions and use tax in the incorporated and unincorporated territory of a county if
the tax ordinance is adopted by a two-thirds vote of the Authority and imposition of the tax is
approved by two-thirds of electors voting on the measure and a transportation expenditure
plan is adopted; and

WHEREAS, Section 7291 of Revenue and Taxation Code, as amended by Assembly Bill 1665
(Reg. Sess. 2015-2016), authorizes the Contra Costa Transportation Authority to impose a
transactions and use tax for the support of countywide transportation programs at a rate of no
more than 0.5 percent that would, in combination with all taxes imposed pursuant to Part 1.6
of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, exceed the limit established in Section 7251.1;

WHEREAS, the Authority, the Contra Costa County Board of Supervisors, and all of the
city/town councils representing both a majority of the cities/towns in the county and a majority
of the population residing in the incorporated areas of the county adopted a transportation
expenditure plan in accordance with Public Utilities Code section 180206.

NOW THEREFORE, THE CONTRA COSTA TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY DOES ORDAIN AS
FOLLOWS:

Section 1. TITLE. This ordinance shall be known as the 2016 Transactions and Use Tax
Ordinance. The Contra Costa Transportation Authority hereinafter shall be called "Authority.11
This ordinance shall be applicable in the incorporated and unincorporated territory of the
County of Contra Costa, which shall be referred to herein as "District."

Section 2. OPERATIVE DATE. "Operative Date" means the first day of the first calendar
quarter commencing more than 110 days after the adoption of this ordinance, the date of such
adoption being as set forth below.

Section 3. PURPOSE. This ordinance is adopted to achieve the following, among other
purposes, and directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish those
purposes:

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the provisions of Part
1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code and
Chapter 5 of Division 19 of the Public Utilities Code which authorizes the Authority to adopt this
tax ordinance which shall be operative if a two-thirds majority of the electors voting on the
measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax at an election called for that purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates provisions
identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California insofar as those
provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax and provides a
measure therefor that can be administered and collected by the State Board of Equalization in a
manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and requires the least possible deviation
from, the existing statutory and administrative procedures followed by the State Board of
Equalization in administering and collecting the California State Sales and Use Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be administered in a
manner that will be, to the greatest degree possible, consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6
of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting the transactions
and use taxes, and at the same time, minimize the burden of record keeping upon persons
subject to taxation under the provisions of this ordinance.

E.	Nothing in this ordinance is intended to modify, repeal, or alter ordinances previously
adopted by the Authority. The provisions of this ordinance shall apply solely to the transactions
and use tax adopted herein.

Section 4. CONTRACT WITH STATE. Prior to the operative date, the Authority shall
contract with the State Board of Equalization to perform all functions incident to the
administration and operation of this transactions and use tax ordinance; provided, that if the
Authority shall not have contracted with the State Board of Equalization prior to the operative
date, it shall nevertheless so contract and in such a case the operative date shall be the first day
of the first calendar quarter following the execution of such a contract.

Section 5. TRANSACTIONS TAX RATE. For the privilege of selling tangible personal
property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated and
unincorporated territory of the District at the rate of an additional one-half of one percent until
March 31, 2047, which tax shall be imposed, in part, concurrently with the existing one-half
percent tax until the existing tax expires, of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all

2

tangible personal property sold at retail in said territory on and after the operative date of this
ordinance.

Section 6. PLACE OF SALE. For the purposes of this ordinance, all retail sales are
consummated at the place of business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold
is delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for
delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery
charges, when such charges are subject to the state sales and use tax, regardless of the place to
which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the State
or has more than one place of business, the place or places at which the retail sales are
consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted
by the State Board of Equalization.

Section 7. USE TAX RATE. An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other
consumption in the District of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on and
after the operative date of this ordinance for storage, use or other consumption in said territory
at the rate of an additional one-half of one percent until March 31, 2047, which tax shall be
imposed, in part, concurrently with the existing one-half percent tax until the existing tax
expires, of the sales price of the property. The sales price shall include delivery charges when
such charges are subject to state sales or use tax regardless of the place to which delivery is
made.

Section 8. ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW. Except as otherwise provided in
this ordinance and except insofar as they are inconsistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing with
Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a
part of this ordinance as though fully set forth herein.

Section 9. LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF STATE LAW AND COLLECTION OF USE TAXES.
in adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing agency,
the name of this Authority shall be substituted therefor. However, the substitution shall not be
made when:

1.	The word "State" is used as a part of the title of the State Controller, State
Treasurer, Victim Compensation and Government Claims Board, State Board of Equalization,
State Treasury, or the Constitution of the State of California;

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or
against this Authority or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by or against the
State Board of Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the administration or
operation of this Ordinance.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sections referring
to the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the result of the substitution would
be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales,
storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property which would not otherwise be
exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other consumption remain subject to tax
by the State under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other
consumption of tangible personal property which would not be subject to tax by the state
under the said provision of that code.

4.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711, 6715,
6737,6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

B.	The word "District" shall be substituted for the word "State" in the phrase
"retailer engaged in business in this State" in Section 6203 and in the definition of that phrase
in Section 6203.

Section 10. PERMIT NOT REQUIRED. If a seller's permit has been issued to a retailer under
Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional transactor's permit shall not be
required by this ordinance.

Section 11. EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the use
tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or by any city, city
and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or
the amount of any state-administered transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax
the gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum products,
to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the County in which the sale
is made and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or
property under the authority of the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign
government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the District which is shipped to a point
outside the District, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by the retailer or
his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at such point.
For the purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point outside the District shall be satisfied:

a.	With respect to vehicles {other than commercial vehicles) subject to
registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle
Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and
undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the
Vehicle Code by registration to an out-of-District address and by a declaration under penalty of
perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that such address is, in fact, his or her principal place of
residence; and

b.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of
business out-of-District and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, that the
vehicle will be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to furnish
the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of
this ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such
property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the property for an
amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, the sale or
lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract
or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the
unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is
exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this ordinance, the storage,
use or other consumption in this District of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a
transactions tax under any state-administered transactions and use tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of aircraft
and used or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as
common carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under a certificate of public
convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this State, the United States, or any
foreign government. This exemption is in addition to the exemptions provided in Sections 6366
and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price
pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the tangible
personal property arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such property for any

5

period of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by a
lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, storage, use,
or other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power over, tangible
personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any
period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to
terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in business in
the District shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible personal
property, unless the retailer ships or delivers the property into the District or participates
within the District in making the sale of the property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or
receiving the order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer in the
district or through any representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the
District under the authority of the retailer.

7.	"A retailer engaged in business in the District" shall also include any retailer
of any of the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing
with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with
Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels registered under Division
3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to
collect use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an
address in the District.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit against that tax
any transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district imposing, or
retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code with respect to the sale to the person of the property the storage, use or other
consumption of which is subject to the use tax.

Section 12. BONDING AUTHORITY. This section incorporates by reference the provisions of
Public Utilities Code sections 180200 ("Pay-as-you-go" financing) and 180250 through 180264.
This ordinance authorizes the Authority to issue limited tax bonds to finance capital outlay
expenditures as may be provided for in the adopted Plan, payable from the proceeds of the tax.
In accordance with Public Utilities Code section 180250(b), the maximum bonded indebtedness
which may be outstanding at any one time shall be an amount equal to the sum of the principal
of, and interest on, the bonds, but not to exceed the estimated proceeds of the tax, as
determined by the plan. The amount of bonds outstanding at any one time does not include the
amount of bonds, refunding bonds, or bond anticipation notes for which funds necessary for
the payment thereof have been set aside for that purpose in a trust or escrow account.

6

Section 13. ANNUAL APPROPRIATIONS LIMIT. Article XIII(B) of the California Constitution
requires the establishment of an annual appropriations limit for certain governmental entities.
The Authority for fiscal year 2016-2017 has been established as $126,192,353. The
appropriations limit shall be subject to adjustment as provided by law. All expenditures of the
tax revenues imposed in this Ordinance are subject to the appropriations limit of the Authority.

Section 14. USE OF PROCEEDS. The proceeds of the transaction and use tax imposed by
this ordinance shall be used solely for the projects and purposes set forth in the 2016
Transportation Expenditure Plan, as it may be amended from time to time, and for the
administration thereof.

Section 15. AMENDMENTS. All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this
ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use
taxes and which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part of this ordinance, provided however, that no
such amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this ordinance.

Section 16. ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN. No injunction or writ of mandate or
other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit, action or proceeding in any court against
the State or the Authority, or against any officer of the State or the Authority, to prevent or
enjoin the collection under this ordinance, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.

Section 17. COMPLIANCE WITH CALIFORNIA ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY ACT ("CEQA'TThe
Authority finds that the approval of this Ordinance is not a "project" and, alternatively, is
exempt from the California Environmental Quality Act {"CEQA"). The ordinance is intended to
provide a funding mechanism for future projects and programs related to the Authority's
provision of transportation services. The ordinance does not commit the Authority to any
particular project, program, or capital improvement. Accordingly, the Authority hereby finds
that, under State CEQA Guidelines section 15378(b)(4), adoption of this ordinance is not a
project subject to the requirements of CEQA because the ordinance is merely "[tjhe creation of
[a] government funding mechanism[] or other fiscal activity which do[es] not involve any
commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact
on the environment." (Cal. Code Regs., tit. 14, § 15378, subd. (b)(4); see also Sustainable
Transportation Advocates of Santa Barbara v. Santa Barbara County Association of
Governments 179 Cal.App.4th 113, 123.) Further, because the ordinance does not authorize the
construction of any projects that may result in any direct or indirect physical change in the
environment and is subject to further discretionary approvals, including the pre-conditions
found in Public Utilities Code section 180206(b), approving the ordinance is not an approval
that "commits the agency to a definite course of action." (State CEQA Guidelines section

15352.) The timing, design, and approval of individual projects to be funded by the ordinance
are dependent on funding availability, need, and CEQA review. Thus, the ordinance has no
potential for causing a significant effect on the environment and is exempt from further review
under CEQA- (State CEQA Guidelines section 15061(b)(3).)

Section 18. REQUEST FOR ELECTION. The Authority hereby requests the Contra Costa
County Board of Supervisors to place this ordinance before the voters for approval on the
November 8, 2016 ballot. The proposition to be placed on the ballot shall read substantially as
follows:

To implement a Transportation Expenditure Plan to continue:

•	Repairing potholes/fixing roads;

•	Improving BART capacity/reliability;

•	Improving Highways 680, 80, 24, and 4;

•	Enhancing bus/transit including for seniors and people with disabilities;

•	Increasing bicycle/pedestrian safety;

•	Improving air quality;

•	Reducing traffic;

shall voters adopt the ordinance augmenting the sales tax by 14%, raising ninety-seven million
dollars for transportation improvements annually for 30 years with independent oversight,
audits, and all money benefitting local residents?

Section 19. SEVERABILITY. If any provision of this ordinance or the application thereof
to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the ordinance and the
application of such provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

Section 20. EFFECTIVE DATE. This ordinance relates to the levying and collecting of the
District transactions and use taxes and shall take effect immediately or as soon thereafter as
the tax may be lawfully imposed.

Section 21. TERMINATION DATE. The authority to levy the tax imposed by this
ordinance shall expire on March 31, 2047.

PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Contra Costa Transportation Authority Board of Directors in
Walnut Creek, State of California, on July 20, 2016, by the following vote:

Chair Hudson, Vice Chair Butt, and Commissioners Abelson, Arnerich, Durant,
Glover, Mitchoff, Pierce, Romick, Tatzin, and Taylor

This Ordinance 16-03 was entered into at a
special meeting of the Contra Costa
Transportation Authority held on July 20,
2016, in Walnut Creek, California, and shall
become effective as provided above.

Attest:

NOES:	None

ABSENT:	None

ABSTAIN:	None

David E. Hudson, Chair

Tarienne Grover, Board Clerk

9