Stanislaus County, California, Sales Tax,
Measure L (November 2016)

| Text of measure

Ballot question

The following question appeared on the ballot;!1]

// To provide funding for local transportation improvements including: fixing
potholes/maintaining streets; improving emergency response; providing safe
routes to schools; providing senior, veterans and disabled shuttle services;
and improving safety/reducing traffic congestion on Highway 99/major
streets; shall the Stanislaus County Transportation Authority enact a 14 cent
sales tax, generating $38,000,000 annually for transportation projects, funds
that cannot be taken by the State, requiring all money to be spent in
Stanislaus County with citizens’ oversight for 25 years?!2]

Impartial analysis

The following impartial analysis of the measure was prepared by the office of the

Stanislaus County Counsel:

Measure “L”, if approved by the voters of Stanislaus County, would impose a retail
transactions and use tax in Stanislaus County at the rate of one-half of one percent
(0.5%) per dollar for a period of 25 years in addition to any existing or future state
or local sales tax. For example, five cents ($0.05) for transportation funding would
be added to a $10.00 taxable transaction. The measure also would authorize the
Stanislaus County Local Transportation Authority, who placed the measure on the
ballot, to issue bonds to pay for local transportation projects described in the
Expenditure Plan. Measure “L” is a special tax, and tax revenue received by the
Stanislaus County Local Transportation Authority may be expended only for the
local transportation improvement projects and programs set forth in the Expenditure
Plan. The measure requires an annual report describing the actions and
accomplishments in meeting the adopted Expenditure Plan, and creates an
Oversight Committee to review and monitor use of all tax revenue and to insure that
all funds are spent in accordance with the Expenditure Plan.

The State of California cannot access or use the tax revenue generated by Measure
“L.” All tax revenue would be used for transportation projects and programs within
Stanislaus County and for the benefit of Stanislaus County residents. If approved,
Measure “L” is estimated to generate $960 million over the 25 year life of the
Measure. The Expenditure Plan requires that 65% of the revenue to be used by
Stanislaus County and the 9 municipalities in the County for local streets and roads

repair, traffic management projects, and bike and pedestrian improvements; 28% of
the revenue to be used for regional transportation projects; and 7% of the revenue to
be used for transportation related services, such as point-to-point services for
seniors, veterans and persons with disabilities.

This measure would become effective only upon the affirmative vote of at least
two-thirds of those voting on the measure. If the measure is approved, the sales tax
would be imposed on the incorporated and unincorporated territory of the County of
Stanislaus effective April 1, 2017.|2]

—Stanislaus County Counsel™

Arguments in favor

Official argument

The following official argument was submitted in favor of the measure:'1!

// Are you tired of driving over potholes and bad roads like we are?

This November, there is one vote you can be proud to cast: YES on Measure L for
better roads, safer streets and a stronger local economy in Stanislaus County.

Measure L is a detailed transportation plan to repair our roads, reduce traffic
congestion and improve safety on local streets and highways.

YES on Measure L is 100% dedicated to improving the quality of life for Stanislaus
County residents and businesses. Measure L will create good jobs and grow our
local economy by providing over $1 Billion dollars of economic and infrastructure
investment.

This plan will:

•	Fix local roads and fill potholes in every community

•	Reduce traffic congestion on Highway 99

•	Synchronize traffic signals on major streets

•	Improve highway safety and fix dangerous intersections

•	Provide point to point shuttle service for seniors and disabled persons

•	Improve emergency response times for sheriff, police and fire first responders

•	Make Stanislaus eligible for millions in state and federal matching funds to fix our
local roads and highways

•	Create safer routes to schools through bike and pedestrian safety improvements.

Measure L includes strong accountability measures. It requires an independent
citizens’ oversight committee and annual financial and performance audits, so
government can’t get in the way. Every penny raised by Measure L stays in
Stanislaus County to improve local transportation. The State can’t touch it. Every
city in Stanislaus County voted to support Measure L because local road repairs

benefit everyone - drivers, cyclists, walkers, seniors, kids and businesses. Taxpayer
advocates, seniors, educators, farmers, business groups, Republicans, Democrats
and neighborhood leaders throughout our county all agree: vote YES on Measure
L.Pi

Arguments against

Official argument

The following official argument was submitted in opposition to the measure;!1!

I	don’t mind paying my fair share of taxes. However, I resent being asked to pay
one half percent extra on every purchase in the next 20 years to fund a welfare
program for urban and residential developers.

A substantial portion of funds collected will be spent on expressway and road
widening projects to induce urban growth. Such projects should be paid for with
Capital Facilities Fees collected from new urban growth. Why should you and I add
to developer profits every time we buy something? Since 2000, the number of
valley commuters to the Bay Area has doubled.

Do you want more expressways so that more folks will commute from many new
subdivisions built along new expressways? How will you benefit? If this proposal
only fixed roads, I would support it. But this pork barrel tax gives average citizens
little benefit.

Your elected leaders had funds to build two six lane expressways in north Modesto,
but couldn’t afford to repave existing streets? Do the expressways benefit you or
homebuilders? I served on the Modesto City Council from 1999-2003. Before
election, I saw developers influence elected leaders who granted immense
subsidies. I spent my entire four years on the Council working to identify and
eliminate gifts of public funds. Unfortunately, the same interest group lobbied for
many proposed expenditures in Measure L. Studies were done at taxpayer expense
about convincing voters to say yes.

Don’t be manipulated into making the wrong choice.

If you ignore my warning and approve this, you will pay for 20 years. Once it
passes, you can’t stop it. Please say “no” to Measure L. Demand better!2!