Solano County, California, Sales Tax
Increase, Measure H (June 2016)

| Text of measure

Ballot question

The following question appeared on the ballot:'^

Shall the people of Solano County enact a one-half percent sales tax for general
governmental purposes such as maintenance and repair of local streets and roads,
pothole repairs, road safety projects, senior and disabled mobility and other
essential services within the seven cities and unincorporated area for 5 years with
annual audits made available to the public showing how all revenue was spent the
previous year?"Pi

Impartial analysis

The following impartial analysis of the measure was prepared by the office of the
Solano County Counsel:

The County of Solano has proposed a general transactions and use tax (sales tax) of
one-half of one cent per dollar (0.50%). The tax would be levied for no more than
five years unless extended by the voters.

State law authorizes the County to levy a general sales tax if the ordinance
proposing the tax is approved by a two-thirds vote of all members of the Board of
Supervisors and the tax is approved by a majority of the qualified voters of the
entire county voting in the election. The Board of Supervisors unanimously
approved the tax on February 9, 2016. If a majority of the voters in the County who
vote on this measure vote "Yes," the measure will pass and the sales tax will be
levied.

The estimated annual revenue generated by this general tax, which is listed on the
ballot in the Fiscal Impact Statement, would be deposited into the General Fund and
would be available for general governmental purposes, including maintaining and
repairing local streets and roads, repairing potholes, implementing road safety
projects, addressing senior and disabled mobility issues and other essential services.
The revenue from the tax would be annually appropriated by the Board of

Supervisors for general governmental purposes. This measure does not restrict the
use of the tax revenue to any specific purpose.

The tax would be paid in addition to the current sales tax. Like the current sales tax,
the tax would be imposed on all retailers in the incorporated and unincorporated
territory of the County for the selling of tangible personal property, subject to
certain exemptions and exclusions identified in the measure.

An independent citizens' oversight committee would review the receipt and
expenditures of the tax revenue, including the County's annual independent audit, in
conjunction with the County's budget process. The committee may make
recommendations to the Board of Supervisors regarding expenditures from the tax.

If approved, the tax would take effect immediately on June 7, 2016 and become
operative on October 1, 2016. The tax will terminate in five years unless a majority
of voters reauthorize the tax at a subsequent election. &

—Solano County Counsel®

Arguments in favor

Official argument

The following official argument was submitted in favor of the measured

Measure H will provide short-term funding that will be directed to our local cities
for streets and roads repair in your neighborhood. All revenue raised by this
measure is required by law to stay in Solano County. Together, Measure H and
Measure G will fix our local streets and roads, improve road safety, and support
transportation for seniors and people with disabilities.

Measure H is the safe, reliable, temporary funding we need and includes the
following public protections:

•	It expires in 5 years

•	No funds will be spent without approval from a citizens' oversight committee *
All funds must be spent in accordance with the authorized purpose (Measure
G)

•	Annual audits of all expenditures will be published publicly

•	All revenue will be kept in our local communities and can't be taken by the
state

Measure G directs all funds raised by Measure H to be used to fix potholes, repair
and maintain local streets and roads, improve road safety, and provide
transportation for seniors and people with disabilities.

The Solano 2014 Annual Pothole Report shows that 50% of local streets and roads
are in poor or at risk condition and are getting worse. Due to cuts in state funding,

Solano County has less than half the amount of money needed to maintain our roads
and not enough funding to improve them.

To address this urgent need, the mayors of Benicia, Dixon, Fairfield, Rio Vista,
Suisun City, Vacaville, and Vallejo requested that Measure H be placed on the
ballot to provide the funding they need to fix roads and improve road safety.

We urge you to join us and vote YES on Measure H.ra

Arguments against

Official argument

The following official argument was submitted in opposition to the measure: ^

Building and maintaining roadways is a major function of local governments. City
streets are the responsibility of each city. Roads outside cities are the responsibility
of the County. Adequate funding should be in every agency's budget. Solano's cities
and the county have neglected their responsibilities for too long! This proposed five
year one-half percent countywide sales tax increase has us taxpayers covering their
negligence. Relying on a temporary tax to solve a long-standing problem is not
responsible. The County admits that funds budgeted for road maintenance have
never met the actual needs.

Furthermore, temporary taxes almost always wind up becoming permanent taxes.
We've been there. But not again.

This is a General Tax. Revenues can and will be used by cities and the county for
anything they want. There is no way to guarantee it will be spent on roads. The
accompanying Advisory Measure is just that — advisory — a "feel good" ploy with
absolutely no teeth.

Previous general sales tax measures presented to the public for purposes such as
road conditions, pothole repair, maintenance of streets, medians, and streetlights,
have been passed and are still in effect in several Solano cities: Benicia 1%,
Fairfield 1%, Vacaville .25%, and Vallejo 1%. Measure H would add an
additional .5% on top of those existing taxes. Californians are already taxed 69
cents per gallon in Federal and State gas taxes. Isn't that enough?

Each city and the County should be placing a special tax on their ballots, just for
streets and roads. That's the honest way.

Why is this general tax on the ballot? Simple. A general tax is easier to pass,
requiring only a majority vote. And by promising cities a cut of the money without
doing any of the work, every city council backs it.

Vote NO on Measure H.isi

//

ORDINANCE NO. 2016- 1770

AN ORDINANCE ADDING ARTICLE XVII TO CHAPTER 11 OF THE SOLANO COUNTY
CODE IMPOSING A GENERAL COUNTYWIDE TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX TO BE
ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION

The people of the County of Solano ordain as follows:

Section 1.

Article XVII is added to Chapter 11 of the Solano County Code to read:
ARTICLE XVII. SOLANO COUNTY 2016 TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX
Section 11- 700 Title.

This ordinance shall be known as the “Solano County 2016 Transactions and Use Tax
Ordinance.” This ordinance shall be applicable in the incorporated and unincorporated territory of
Solano County (“the “County").

Section 11- 701 Operative Date.

“Operative date” means the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing more than 110
days after the adoption of this ordinance.

Section 11 - 702 Purpose.

This ordinance is adopted to achieve the following, among other purposes, and directs
that its provisions are interpreted to accomplish those purposes:

(a)	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the provisions of Part 1.6
(commencing with section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code and section 7285 of
Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, which authorizes the County to adopt this tax
ordinance which shall be operative if a majority of the qualified voters voting on the measure vote to
approve the imposition of the tax at an election called for that purpose.

(b)	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates provisions identical to
those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California insofar as those provisions are consistent
with the requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code.

(c)	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax and provides a
measure for it that the State Board of Equalization can administer and collect in a manner that adapts
itself as fully as practicable to, and requires the least possible deviation from, the existing statutory and
administrative procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization in administering and collecting
the California Sales and Use Taxes.

(d)	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance which can be administered in a manner
that shall be, to the greatest degree possible, consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting the transactions and use taxes, and at
the same time, minimize the burden of record keeping upon persons subject to taxation under the
provisions of this ordinance.

1

(e)	To raise the appropriations limit for the County.

Section 11- 703 Contract with State.

Prior to the operative date, the County shall contract with the State Board of Equalization to
perform all functions incident to the administration and operation of this transactions and use tax
ordinance; provided, that if the County has not contracted with the State Board of Equalization prior to
the operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract, and in that case the operative date will be the first
day of the first calendar quarter following the execution of the contract.

Section 11- 704 Transactions Tax Rate.

For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax is imposed upon all retailers
in the incorporated and unincorporated territory of the County at the rate of 1/2 of 1 percent (0.50%) of
the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail in the
territory on and after the operative date of this ordinance.

Section 11- 705 Place of Sale.

For the purposes of this ordinance, all retail sales are consummated at the place of business of
the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is delivered by the retailer or his or her agent to
an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross
receipts from such sales shall include delivery charges, when such charges are subject to the state
sales and use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no
permanent place of business in the State, or has more than one place of business, the place or places
at which the retail sales are consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations to be
prescribed and adopted by the State Board of Equalization.

Section 11- 706 Use Tax Rate.

An excise tax is imposed on the storage, use or other consumption in the County of tangible
personal property purchased from any retailer on and after the operative date of this ordinance for
storage, use or other consumption in the territory at the rate of 1/2 of 1 percent (0.50%) of the sales
price of the property. The sales price shall include delivery charges when such charges are subject to
state sales or use tax regardless of the place to which delivery is made.

Section 11- 707 Adoption of Provisions of State Law.

Except as otherwise provided in this ordinance and except insofar as they are inconsistent with
the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1
(commencing with section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are adopted and
incorporated by this reference.

Section 11- 708 Limitations on Adoption of State Law and Collection of Use Taxes.

(a)	In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code,
wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing authority, the name of this County
shall be substituted for it. Flowever, the substitution shall not be made when:

(1)	The word “State” is used as a part of the title of the State Controller, State Treasurer,
State Board of Control, State Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or the Constitution of the State of
California.

2

(2)	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against this
County or any agency, officer, or employee of it rather than by or against the State Board of
Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the administration or operation of this ordinance.

(3)	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to, sections referring to the
exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the substitution would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use
or other consumption of tangible personal property which would not otherwise be exempt from this tax
while such sales, storage, use or other consumption remain subject to tax by the State under the
provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, or

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other
consumption of tangible personal property which would not be subject to tax by the State under the
provisions of that code.

(4)	in sections 6701, 6702 (except in its last sentence), 6711, 6715, 6737, 6797 or 6828
of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

(b)	The word “County” shall be substituted for the word “State” in the phrase “retailer engaged in
business in this State” in section 6203 and in the definition of that phrase in section 6203.

Section 11- 709 Permit Not Required.

If a seller’s permit has been issued to a retailer under section 6067 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, this ordinance shall not require an additional transactor’s permit.

Section 11-710 Exemptions and Exclusions.

(a)	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the use tax the
amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or by any city, city and county or
county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sale and Use Tax Law or the amount of any state
administered transactions or use tax.

(b)	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax the gross
receipts from:

(1)	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum products, to
operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the County in which the sale is made
and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property under
the authority of the laws of California, the United States, or any foreign government.

(2)	Sales of property to be used outside the County which is shipped to a point outside
the County, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by the retailer or his or her agent,
or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at such point. For the purposes of
this subsection, delivery to a point outside the County shall be satisfied:

3

a.	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject to
registration under Chapter 1 (commencing with section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft
licensed according to section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels registered
under Chapter 2 of Division 3.5 (commencing with section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration to
an out-of-County address and by a declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, stating
that such address is, in fact, his or her principal place of residence; and

b.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of business out-
of-County and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that the vehicle shall be
operated from that address.

(3)	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to furnish the property
for a fixed price under a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

(4)	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such property, for
any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by the
lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

(5)	For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4) of this subdivision, the sale or lease of
tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated under a contract or lease for any period
of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract
or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

(c)	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this ordinance, the storage, use or other
consumption in this County of tangible personal property:

(1)	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a transactions tax
under any state administered transactions and use tax ordinance.

(2)	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of aircraft and used or
consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of
persons or property for hire or compensation under a certificate of public convenience and necessity
issued under the laws of California, the United States, or any foreign government. This exemption is in
addition to the exemptions provided in sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

(3)	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price under a
contract entered into before the operative date of this ordinance.

(4)	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the tangible personal
property arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such property for any period of time for
which the lessee is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by a lease before the operative
date of this ordinance.

(5)	For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4) of this section, storage, use, or other
consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power over, tangible personal property shall
be deemed not to be obligated under a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to
the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether
or not such right is exercised.

(6)	Except as provided for in subsection (7), a retailer engaged in business in the
County shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible personal property, unless
the retailer ships or delivers the property into the County or participates within the County in making the

4

sale of the property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving the order, either directly or
indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer in the County or through any representative, agent,
canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the County under the authority of the retailer.

(7)	“A retailer engaged in business in the County” shall also include any retailer of the
following: vehicles subject to registration under Chapter 1 (commencing with section 4000) of Division 3
of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed according to section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or
undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with section 9840) of the Vehicle
Code. That retailer shall be required to collect use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the
vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the County.

(d)	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit against that tax any
transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a county imposing, or a retailer liable for
a transactions tax under Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code with respect to the
sale to the person of the property the storage, use or other consumption of which is subject to the use
tax.

Section 11-711 Amendments.

All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6
and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part
1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part of this
ordinance, provided however, that no such amendment shall operate to affect the rate of tax imposed
by this ordinance.

Section 11- 712 Enjoining Collection Forbidden.

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit, action
or proceeding in any court against the State of California or the County, or against any officer of the
State of California or the County, to prevent or enjoin the collection under this ordinance, or Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.

Section 11 - 713 Use of the Taxes.

The tax imposed by this ordinance is a general tax within the meaning of article XIII C, section
1(a) of the California Constitution. The revenue generated by this general tax is available for general
governmental purposes and shall be paid into the General Fund for use by the County.

Section 11 - 714 Increase of Appropriations Limit.

The appropriations limit of the County shall be increased by the amount of the revenue
anticipated to be collected by the County from the transactions and use tax to allow spending of the tax
revenue for the period allowed by law.

5

Section 11 - 715 Independent Citizens’ Oversight Committee and Annual Audit.

(a)	The Board of Supervisors shall establish a citizens’ oversight committee to provide
transparency and ensure fiscal accountability. The committee shall review the receipt and expenditures
of the revenue from the transactions and use tax, including the County's annual independent audit.
The committee’s review shall be completed in conjunction with the County’s budget process. The
committee shall produce an annual oral or written report on its review which shall be considered by the
Board of Supervisors at a public meeting. The committee may provide budget recommendations to the
Board of Supervisors regarding expenditures from the transactions and use tax. .Any written report
shall be a public record. The Board of Supervisors shall adopt a resolution regarding the appointment
of the committee members and any additional duties of the committee.

(b)	The funds collected from the transactions and use tax ordinance shall be accounted for and
tracked by the county auditor-controller in a separate fund to facilitate citizen oversight.

(c)	The amount generated by this general purpose revenue source and how it was used shall
be included in the annual audit of the County’s financial operations by an independent certified public
accountant, which the committee shall review.

(d)	To preserve the integrity and independence of the oversight process, the committee’s
responsibilities shall not include decision-making on spending priorities, financing plans or tax rate
projections or assumption and the committee shall have no authority to direct, nor shall it direct, County
staff or officials.

Section 11-716 Effective Date.

This ordinance relates to the levying and collecting of the County’s transactions and use taxes
and shall take effect immediately upon the close of the polls on June 7, 2016, if approved by a majority
of the qualified voters of the entire county voting on the measure at the election held that day.

Section 11-717 Termination Date.

The authority to levy the tax imposed by this ordinance shall expire five (5) years from the
operative date, unless extended by the voters in the manner set forth in Revenue and Taxation Code
section 7285.

Section 11-718 Compliance with California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA).

Under CEQA Guidelines section 15378(b)(4), adoption of this ordinance is not a project subject
to the requirements of CEQA.

Section 11-719 Severability.

If any provision of this ordinance or its application to any person or circumstance is held invalid,
the remainder of the ordinance and the application of such provision to other persons or circumstances
shall not be affected.

6

Ordinance No. 2016- 1 770

Section 2.

This ordinance shall be published once within fifteen (15) days after its passage, in the Fairfield Daily
Republic, a newspaper of general circulation in Solano County.

Passed and adopted by the Solano County Board of Supervisors at its regular meeting on February 9,
2016, by the following vote:

AYES:	SUPERVISORS	Seifert. Sperinq. Thomson, Vasquez

and Chairwoman Hannigan__________________

NOES:	SUPERVISORS	None.____________________________________

EXCUSED:	SUPERVISORS	None.______________________________

ERIN HANNIGAN, Chairwoman
Solano County Board of Supervisors

ATTEST:

BIRGITTA E. CORSELLO, Clerk
Board of Supervisors

By: _ _

Jeanet^b Bellinder, Chief Deputy Clerk

u

introduced:

Adopted:

Effective:

Operative:

February 2, 2016

February 9, 2016

June 7, 2016 [if voter approved]

October 1, 2016 [if voter approved]

7