

DAVIS JOINT UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT

RESOLUTION NO. 59-16

RESOLUTION OF THE GOVERNING BOARD OF
THE DAVIS JOINT UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
CALLING AN ELECTION, ESTABLISHING
SPECIFICATIONS OF THE ELECTION ORDER, AND
REQUESTING CONSOLIDATION WITH THE
STATEWIDE GENERAL ELECTION OCCURRING
ON NOVEMBER 8, 2016

WHEREAS, the Davis Joint Unified School District (“District”) is committed to offering
a high-quality educational program to all students within the District and securing adequate
funding to meet that purpose; and

WHEREAS, an increase in revenues is necessary to retain essential student focused
educational programs; and

WHEREAS, an adequately funded and well-developed public education program provides
numerous benefits and advantages to all of the residents of the community; and

WHEREAS, current voter approved Davis Joint Unified Parcel Tax Measures C and
Measure E are set to expire at the end of the 2016-17 tax year and, because of persistent and severe
California State funding shortfalls, the District continues to rely on the funding from these parcel
tax measures for the current educational program serving Davis students; and

WHEREAS, the District wishes to renew current Davis Joint Unified Parcel Tax Measures
C and E with a new parcel tax measure, whose purpose is to continue to provide adequate funding
to the District; and

WHEREAS, Section 4 of Article XIIIA and Section 2 of Article XIIIC of the California
Constitution and Sections 50075, 50076, 50077, 50079 and 53722 et seq. of the California
Government Code authorize a school district, upon approval of two-thirds (2/3) of the electorate
voting on the measure, to levy a qualified special tax for specified purposes following notice and
a public hearing; and

WHEREAS, in the judgment of this Governing Board (“Board”), following public
hearings and comment, it is advisable to request that the Yolo County Clerk-Recorder and the
Solano County Registrar of Voters (“County Registrar”) call an election to submit to the voters of
the District the question of whether the District shall levy a special tax within the District for the
purpose of raising additional revenue for the District; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Education Code section 5303, with respect to school districts,
such as the District, which are situated in two or more counties, the county elections officials in

005600.00298

14090815.5

- Page 1 -

the counties in which any part of the district territory is situated, shall, by mutual agreement,
provide for the performance of those duties; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Education Code section 5342 and Elections Code sections 10400,
10402 and 10403 such election may be completely or partially consolidated with any other election
held on the same day and in the same territory or portion of territory that is the same; and

WHEREAS, the Board has conducted a noticed public hearing, as required by law, on the
question of whether or not to request the District’s voters to authorize funding to continue the
programs and for the purposes identified below.

NOW, THEREFORE, THE GOVERNING BOARD OF THE DAVIS JOINT UNIFIED
SCHOOL DISTRICT HEREBY RESOLVES, DETERMINES, AND ORDERS AS
FOLLOWS:

1.	Recitals. The foregoing recitals are true and correct.

2.	Board Determination. That the Board has determined in its best judgment that in
order to maintain quality education in the District, an election is advisable to submit to the voters
of the District the question of whether to adopt a qualified special tax measure to maintain the
quality of the District’s public education that has benefited all students and citizens.

3.	Resolution Constitutes Order of Election. This resolution shall constitute an
order of election pursuant to Education Code section 5320 et seq. The County Registrars of Yolo
and Solano Counties are hereby requested to determine which County Registrar shall conduct the
election on behalf of the District in accordance with Education Code section 5303.

4.	Date and Purpose of Measure. Pursuant to Section 4 of Article XIIIA of the
California Constitution and Government Code section 50077, an election shall be held within the
boundaries of the District on Tuesday, November 8, 2016 for the purpose of voting on a measure
(“Measure”) which will be presented to voters in substantially the form attached hereto as Exhibit
A, containing the question of whether the District shall impose a special tax for the educational
purposes stated therein. In addition, the full text of the Measure (“Full Ballot Text”) shall appear
in the ballot pamphlet in substantially the form attached hereto as Exhibit B, or, in the alternative,
the ballot pamphlet shall contain information as to how voters may obtain a copy of the full text
of the Measure, as provided for in paragraph 14 of this Resolution.

5.	Amount of Tax. The qualified special tax shall be in the amounts and manner set
forth in Exhibit B attached hereto.

6.	Senior Exemption From Special Tax. An exemption from payment of the special
tax may be granted on any parcel owned by one or more persons 65 years of age or over as of July
1 of each tax year, who occupies parcel as a principal residence, upon application for exemption
(“Senior Citizen Exemption”). Applications for such exemptions must be made and delivered to
the District during the period from May 15 through June 15 (or the next regular business day
thereafter) prior to the year the parcel tax is levied in accordance with the process established by
the District and as described in the attached Ballot Measure (Exhibit B hereto).

005600.00298

14090815.5

- Page 2 -

7.	Supplemental Security Income (SSI) Recipient Exemption From Special Tax.

An exemption from payment of the special tax may be granted on any parcel owned by one or
more persons receiving Supplemental Security Income (“SSI”) for disability, regardless of age,
who occupies the parcel as a principal residence, upon application for exemption (“SSI Recipient
Exemption”). Applications for such exemptions must be made and delivered to the District during
the period from May 15 through June 15 (or the next regular business day thereafter) prior to each
year the parcel tax is levied in accordance with the process established by the District and as
described in the attached Ballot Measure (Exhibit B hereto).

8.	Social Security Disability Insurance Exemption. An exemption from payment
of the special tax may be granted on any parcel owned by one or more persons receiving Social
Security Disability Insurance benefits (“SSDI”), regardless of age, who occupies the parcel as a
principal residence, and whose yearly income does not exceed 250 percent of the 2012 federal
poverty guidelines issued by the United States Department of Health and Human Services, upon
application for exemption (“SSDI Recipient Exemption”). Applications for such exemptions must
be made and delivered to the District during the period from May 15 through June 15 (or the next
regular business day thereafter) prior to each year the parcel tax is levied in accordance with the
process established by the District and as described in the attached Ballot Measure (Exhibit B
hereto).

9. Collection of the Tax. The special tax shall be collected by the County Tax
Collectors of the Counties of Solano and Yolo (“County Tax Collectors”), as applicable based on
parcel location, at the same time, in the same manner, and subject to the same penalties as ad
valorem property taxes collected by the County Tax Collectors. Unpaid special taxes shall bear
interest at the same rate as the rate for unpaid ad valorem property taxes until paid.

The special tax shall be levied on all parcels of taxable real property in the District. “Parcel
of Taxable Real Property” shall be defined as any unit of real property in the District that receives
a separate tax bill for ad valorem property taxes from the County Tax Collector’s Office. All
property that is otherwise exempt from, or upon which ad valorem property taxes are not levied in
any year shall also be exempt from the special tax in such year. With respect to all general property
tax matters within its jurisdiction, the County Tax Collector shall make all final determinations of
tax exemption or relief for any reason, and that decision shall be final and binding. With respect
to matters specific to the levy of the special tax, including the classification of property for
purposes of calculating the tax, the decisions of a District administrative review panel shall be final
and binding.

10.	Authority for Ordering Election. The authority for ordering the election is
contained in Section 50075 et seq. of the Government Code and Section 4 of Article XIIIA of the
California Constitution.

11.	Authority for Specifications. The authority for the specification of this election
order is contained in Section 5322 of the Education Code.

005600.00298

14090815.5

- Page 3 -

12.	Resolution to County Registrar and County Board. The Clerk of the Governing
Board is hereby directed to immediately send a copy of this Resolution to the County Registrars,
as the officers conducting the election, the Yolo County Superintendent of Schools and Solano
County Superintendent of Schools (“County Superintendents'”), and to the Yolo County Clerk of
the Board of Supervisors and Solano County Clerk of the Board of Supervisors (“County Board”).
The Board requests that the County Superintendents deliver a copy of all published notices to the
Clerk of this Board.

13.	Formal Notice. The County Superintendents are hereby requested to prepare and
execute a formal Notice of Parcel Tax Election and Consolidation (“Notice”) and to call the
election by causing the Notice to be posted in accordance with Section 5362 of the Education Code
no later than August 10, 2016, or otherwise cause the Notice to be published as permitted by law.

14.	Conduct of Election.

a.	Request to County Registrar. Pursuant to Section 5303 of the Education
Code, the County Registrar is requested to take all steps to hold the election in accordance with
the law and these specifications, including the determination of whether Solano County or Yolo
County Registrars will act as the elections official. The Board requests that the Registrar of Voters
deliver a copy of all published notices to the Clerk of this Board pursuant to Section 12113 of the
Elections Code.

b.	Voter Pamphlet. The County Registrar is hereby requested to reprint the
Full Ballot Text in substantially the form attached hereto as Exhibit B in the voter information
pamphlet to be distributed to voters pursuant to Section 13307 of the Elections Code. In the event
the Full Ballot Text will not be reprinted in the voter information pamphlet in its entirety, the
County Registrar is hereby requested to print, immediately below the impartial analysis of the
Measure, in no less than 10-point boldface type, a legend substantially as follows:

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure __________________[Measure

title/designation]. If you desire a copy of the Measure, please call the Yolo County
Registrar of Voters at (530) 666-8133 or (800) 649-9943, or call the Solano County
Registrar of Voters at (707) 784-6675 or (888) 933-8683 and a copy will be mailed
at no cost to you. The full text of the Measure may also be viewed online at:
____________[INSERT URL/WEB ADDRESS HERE]

c.	Consolidation. Pursuant to Education Code section 5342 and Elections
Code section 10402.5, the County Registrars and the County Boards are hereby requested
to consolidate the election ordered hereby with any and all other elections to be held on November
8, 2016, within the District.

d.	Cost of Election. The Davis Joint Unified School District agrees to
reimburse the Counties of Yolo and Solano for the cost of such election.

e.	Canvass of Results. The County Boards are authorized to canvass the
returns of the election pursuant to Section 10411 of the Elections Code.

005600.00298

14090815.5

- Page 4 -

15.	Appropriations Limit. The Board shall provide in each year for an increase in the
District’s appropriations limit as shall be necessary to ensure that the proceeds of the special tax
may be spent for its authorized purposes.

16.	Full Ballot Text. The Board hereby determines to include within the ballot
pamphlet the Full Ballot Text in substantially the form attached hereto as Exhibit B, which is
hereby approved and adopted by the Board, and the County Registrar is hereby directed to include
the Full Ballot Text in the ballot pamphlet.

17.	Ballot Arguments. The President of the Board and/or designees are hereby
authorized to prepare and file with the County Registrar any ballot argument prepared in
connection with the election, including a rebuttal argument, each within the time established by
the County Registrar, which shall be considered the official ballot arguments of the Governing
Board as sponsor of the Measure.

18.	Official Actions. The District Superintendent, President of the Board, or their
designees, are hereby authorized and directed to execute any other document and to perform all
acts necessary to place the Measure on the ballot, including making any changes to the text of the
Measure described in this Resolution, or to the abbreviated form of the Measure, or to the text of
this Resolution, as may be convenient or necessary to comply with the intent of this Resolution,
the requirements of elections officials, and requirements of law.

19.	Accountability Measures. The members of the Board, the Superintendent of the
District, and officers of the District are hereby requested and directed, individually and
collectively, to provide accountability measures pursuant to Government Code section 50075.1
that include, but are not limited to, all of the following: (a) A statement indicating the specific
purposes of the qualified special tax, (b) a requirement that the proceeds be applied only to the
specific purposes identified pursuant to subsection (a), (c) the creation of an account into which
the proceeds shall be deposited, and (d) an annual report pursuant to Section 50075.3 of the
Government Code, as provided in Section 20 below.

Ill

III

III

005600.00298

14090815.5

- Page 5 -

20. Annual Report. Pursuant to Section 50075.3 of the Government Code, the Board
directs that the chief fiscal officer of the District file a report with the Board no later than January
1,2018, and at least once a year thereafter. The annual report shall contain both of the following:

(a)	The amount of funds collected and expended, and (b) the status of any project required or
authorized to be funded by the special tax.

ADOPTED, SIGNED and APPROVED by the Governing Board of the Davis Joint Unified
School District on June 29,2016, by the following vote:

AYES:	Adams,	Archer,	Fernandes,	Lovenburg,	sunder

NOES:	None

ABSTENTIONS:	None

ABSENT:	None

By

President of the Governing Board of the
Davis Joint Unified School District

005600.00298

14090815.5

- Page 6 -

STATE OF CALIFORNIA )

YOLO COUNTY	)

I, Kevin French do hereby certify that the foregoing is a true and correct copy of Resolution No.
59-16 which was duly adopted by the Governing Board of the Davis Joint Unified School
District at the meeting thereof held on June 29, 2016, and that it was adopted by the following
vote:

AYES:	Adams, Archer, Fernandes, Lovenburg, Sunder
NOES:	None
ABSTENTIONS:	None
ABSENT:	None  / / V-
	By .A&- Secretary oftfie Governing Board Or Governing Board Designee

005600.00298  14090815.5	- Page 7 -

EXHIBIT A

005600.00298

14090815.5

ABBREVIATED TEXT OF MEASURE

To provide outstanding academics in math, science, reading, writing, instructional
technology and programs in athletics, arts and music; provide high quality teachers;
limit class sizes; and support student health and safety; shall the Davis Joint Unified
School District replace its expiring parcel taxes with a single eight-year parcel tax
of $620/year, raising approximately $9.5 million/year, adjusted for inflation; with
senior and disability exemptions; with citizens oversight; for the exclusive use of
Davis schools?

Yes	No

- Page 1 -

EXHIBIT B

FULL BALLOT TEXT

To provide outstanding academics in math, science, reading, writing, instructional
technology and programs in athletics, arts and music; provide high quality teachers; limit class
sizes; and support student health and safety; shall the Davis Joint Unified School District replace
its expiring parcel taxes with a single eight-year parcel tax of $620/year, raising approximately
$9.5 million/year, adjusted for inflation; with senior and disability exemptions; with citizens
oversight; for the exclusive use of Davis schools?

Purpose

The purpose of the measure is to support the programs and services currently funded by
Measures C and E as follows:

a)	Provide opportunities for all students to reach proficiency by supporting improved
instruction in math and reading;

b)	Provide availability of elementary science instruction programs;

c)	Provide reduced class sizes for elementary grades;

d)	Provide availability of sufficient numbers of classes in secondary core subjects including
science, math, English, history and social sciences;

e)	Provide availability of world language programs;

f)	Provide availability of elementary and secondary school music programs;

g)	Provide availability of advanced placement classes;

h)	Provide availability of elective course offerings such as fine art and Career Technical
Education;

i)	Provide availability of school physical education classes;

j)	Provide availability of elementary and secondary librarian services;

k)	Provide availability of school counselor, school nurse, other student support staff
positions;

l)	Provide availability of athletics and co-curricular programs including drama, debate,
robotics and journalism programs.

m)	Provide supplemental staff training for classified and certificated employees;

005600.00298

14090815.5

- Page 1 -

n)	Improve student nutrition by providing fresh farm produce and from scratch meals;

o)	Provide additional classroom and library instructional materials, technological materials,
equipment and services, and other educational equipment for schools; and

p)	Provide availability of school site safety and support staff.

Basis of Tax

By this parcel tax measure, the District seeks voter approval of a tax that shall be levied on
all Parcels of Taxable Real Property in the District at a rate of Six Hundred and Twenty Dollars
($620.00) per parcel (“Parcel Tax Rate”). The new level of parcel taxes will be imposed
commencing with the 2017-2018 tax year and will run for a period of eight (8) years.

To account for the impact of inflation on the cost of delivering the classroom programs and
student services supported by the education parcel tax, the Parcel Tax Rate as set forth above, shall
be adjusted annually, as determined by the Board, commencing as of the 2018-19 tax year, for
inflation by the change in the "Consumer Price Index for all Urban Consumers California (1982-
84=100)" published by the U.S. Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics. In the event this
index is no longer published, the Board shall adopt a comparable index of general price levels as
it shall reasonably determine.

“Parcel of Taxable Real Property” is defined as any unit of real property in the District that
receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem property taxes from the Yolo or Solano County
Treasurer-Tax Collector’s Office, as applicable depending on parcel location. All property that is
otherwise exempt from or upon which no ad valorem property taxes are levied in any year shall
also be exempt from the special tax in such year.

If more than one adjacent Assessor parcel constitutes a single parcel under the Subdivision
Map Act (California Government Code section 66410 et seq.), then the parcel will be treated as a
single Parcel of Taxable Real Property for purposes of the amount of tax due, and a claim for
refund may be made by the property owner pursuant to the claim procedures outlined below.

Exemptions

Senior Exemption From Special Tax. An exemption from payment of the special tax
may be granted on any parcel owned by one or more persons 65 years of age or over as of July 1
of each tax year, who occupies parcel as a principal residence, upon application for exemption
(“Senior Citizen Exemption”). Applications for such exemptions must be made and delivered to
the District during the period from May 15 through June 15 (or the next regular business day
thereafter) prior to the year the parcel tax is levied in accordance with the process established by
the Davis Joint Unified School District Governing Board, or its designee.

Supplemental Security Income (SSI) Recipient Exemption From Special Tax. An

exemption from payment of the special tax may be granted on any parcel owned by one or more
persons receiving Supplemental Security Income (“SSI”) for disability, regardless of age, who
occupies the parcel as a principal residence, upon application for exemption (“SSI Recipient

005600.00298

14090815.5

- Page 2 -

Exemption”). Applications for such exemptions must be made and delivered to the District during
the period from May 15 through June 15 (or the next regular business day thereafter) prior to each
year the parcel tax is levied in accordance with the process established by the Davis Joint Unified
School District Governing Board, or its designee.

Social Security Disability Insurance Exemption. An exemption from payment of the
special tax may be granted on any parcel owned by one or more persons receiving Social Security
Disability Insurance benefits (“SSDI”), regardless of age, who occupies the parcel as a principal
residence, and whose yearly income does not exceed 250 percent of the 2012 federal poverty
guidelines issued by the United States Department of Health and Human Services, upon
application for exemption (“SSDI Recipient Exemption”). Applications for such exemptions must
be made and delivered to the District during the period from May 15 through June 15 (or the next
regular business day thereafter) prior to each year the parcel tax is levied in accordance with the
process established by the Davis Joint Unified School District Governing Board, or its designee.

Claim Procedures

With respect to all general property tax issues and billing matters within its jurisdiction,
the Yolo or Solano County Tax Assessor, as applicable, or other appropriate County tax official
shall make all final determinations of tax exemption or relief for any reason, and that decision shall
be final and binding. With respect to matters specific to the levy of the special tax, including
determination of Senior Citizen exemption, SSI Recipient Exemption and SSDI Recipient
Exemption, however, the decisions of the District shall be final and binding. In the latter case, a
claim for a refund of the special tax shall comply with the following and any additional procedures
as established by the Board:

(a)	All claims shall be filed with the Superintendent of the District no later than one year
after the date the tax was paid. The claimant shall file the claim within this time period and the
claim shall be finally acted upon the Board as a prerequisite to bringing suit thereon.

(b)	Pursuant to Government Code section 935 (b) the claim shall be subject to the
provisions of Government Code sections 945.6 and 946.

(c)	The Board shall act on a timely claim within the time period required by Government
Code section 912.4.

(d)	The procedure described herein, and any additional procedures established by the
Board, shall be the exclusive claims procedure for claimants seeking a refund, reduction, or
recomputation of the special tax. Whether any particular claim is to be resolved by the District or
by the County shall be determined by the District, in coordination with the County as necessary.

Appropriations Limit

005600.00298

14090815.5

- Page 3 -

Pursuant to California Constitution article XIIIB and applicable laws, the appropriations
limit for the District will be adjusted periodically by the aggregate sum collected by levy of this
special tax.

Accountability Measures

The proceeds of the special tax shall be applied only to the specific purposes identified
above. The proceeds of the special tax shall be deposited into a fund, which shall be kept separate
and apart from other funds of the District. No later than January 1 of each year while the tax is in
effect, the District shall prepare and file with the Board a report detailing the amount of funds
collected and expended, and the status of any project authorized to be funded by this measure.

In addition, an independent Citizens Oversight Committee shall be appointed by the
Governing Board to ensure that the special tax proceeds collected pursuant to this measure are
spent for their authorized purposes, and to report annually to the Governing Board and the public
regarding the expenditure of such funds.

Severability

The Board hereby declares, and the voters by approving this measure concur, that every
section and part of this measure has independent value, and the Board and the voters would have
adopted each provision hereof regardless of every other provision hereof. Upon approval of this
measure by the voters, should any part of the measure or taxing formula be found by a court of
competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, all remaining parts of the measure or taxing
formula hereof shall remain in full force and effect to the fullest extent allowed by law.

Protection of Funding

Current law forbids any decrease in State or Federal funding to the District because of the
District’s adoption of a parcel tax. However, if any such funds are reduced because of the adoption
of this parcel tax, then the amount of the special taxes will be reduced annually as necessary in
order to restore such State or Federal funding.

///

III

III

EXHIBIT C

005600.00298

14090815.5

- Page 4 -

EXHIBIT D

FORMAL NOTICE OF PARCEL TAX ELECTION

NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN to the qualified electors of the Davis Joint Unified School District
of Solano County, California, that in accordance with the provisions of the Education Code and
Government Code of the State of California, an election will be held on November 8, 2016, for
the purpose of submitting to the qualified electors of the District the proposition summarized as
follows:

To provide outstanding academics in math, science, reading, writing, instructional
technology and programs in athletics, arts and music; provide high quality
teachers; limit class sizes; and support student health and safety; shall the Davis
Joint Unified School District replace its expiring parcel taxes with a single eight-
year parcel tax of $620/year, raising approximately $9.5 million/year, adjusted for
inflation; with senior and disability exemptions; with citizens oversight; for the
exclusive use of Davis schools?

By execution of this formal Notice of Election the County Superintendent of Schools of Solano
County orders consolidation of the election with such other elections as may be held on the same
day in the same territory or in territory that is in part the same,

The County Superintendent of Schools of Solano County, by this Notice of Election, has called
the election pursuant to a Resolution and Order of the Governing Board of the Davis Joint
Unified School District, adopted June 29, 2016, in accordance with the provisions of Education
Code sections 5302, 5325 and 5361.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this day, .June 3O
2016

005600 00298
14090815.5

- Page 1 -