IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE H	ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE H
ARCATA ELEMENTARY SCHOOL DISTRICT PARCEL TAX	
This analysis of the education parcel tax measure for the Areata Elementary School District (“District”), Measure H, is prepared pursuant to Elections Code section 9560.	Areata Elementary and Sunny Brae Middle are exemplary schools, both having been officially recognized with Blue Ribbon, Awards in recent years by the California Department of Education. Measure H will enable the Areata School District to continue to ensure excellence in core academic programs, attract and
On June 27,2016, the District’s Board of Trustees adopted Resolution No. 1516- 11, as authorized by Section 4 of Article XIIIA and Government Code section 50079, ordering an election to approve the levy of a uniform qualified special tax of $59.00 per parcel for each parcel of taxable real property within the District each year for a period of eight (8) years, commencing with fiscal year 2018-2019. Exemptions from the obligation to pay the tax will be available to persons who are 65 years of age or older, or who receive Supplemental Security Income or Social Security Disability Insurance benefits for a disability, regardless of age, who own and occupy a parcel as their principal residence.	retain highly qualified teachers, maintain small class sizes, and enhance art, music and dance programs.  Our children need your YES vote on Measure H! If successful, Measure H will provide a stable source of local funds to offset the uncertainty of state funding. With the kind of support provided by the funds from Measure M, our students can become well rounded, contributing members of the community. Without it, their educational experience will be compromised.  Measure H isa renewal of our existing parcel tax, which will improve local Areata
The education parcel tax proceeds will only be expended to maintain or expand art, music and dance programs, reduce class sizes, fund school nurse programs to maintain and promote good health, to address immediate maintenance and safely issues to increase student safety, and to provide funding for necessary staffing of the District.as described in the full text of the measure (the “Full Text”). The proceeds will not be used for any purpose not identified in the measure, including administrator salaries.	schools by:  •	Maintaining or expanding art, music and dance programs  •	Reducing class sizes  •	Funding school nurse programs to maintain and promote good health  •	Addressing any immediate maintenance and safety issues to increase student safety  •	Rehiring certified staff members
As required by law, the Districts Board of Trustees shall establish a citizen’s oversight committee to ensure that the proceeds of the education parcel tax are spent only on the programs and projects identified in Measure H. The District is required by law to prepare an annual independent financial and performance audit and issue an annual report on the expenditure of the funds.	Measure H makes financial sense and protects taxpayers.  •	By law, all parcel tax funds must be spent locally and cannot be taken by the State.  •	Measure H provides an exemption for any parcel owned and occupied by a person 65 years of age or older.  •	Spending will be reviewed and annually audited by an independent citizens’
If two-thirds (2/3) of the qualified electors residing within the District voting on Measure H vote for approval, the Districts Board of Trustees would be authorized to levy the education parcel tax for the purposes described in the Full Text. If less than two-thirds (2/3) of the qualified electors voting on the measure vote for approval, the District will not be authorized to levy the tax.	oversight committee  Measure H is a companion to Measure 1 that has also been placed on the ballot. Measure 1 will provide funds to renovate schools. Please vote YES on both Measures H and 1.
A “yes” vote is to authorize the levy of the education parcel tax.	/s/ Mark E. Wheetley, Areata City Council /s/ Dan Hauser, Former City Manager
A “no" vote is against authorizing the levy of the education parcel tax.	/s/ Margaret Flenner, (Former) Areata Elementary Principal /s/ Mark S. Andre, Environmental Services Director
/si Jeffrey S. Blanck, County Counsel	/s/Jean Mazzotti, Business Owner
BT11	BT11