INSTRUCTIONS TO VOTERS:

To vote for or against a measure, fill in the small
rectangle in the voting area to the right of the
word YES or NO for that measure. Use a pencil or
a ball point pen.

All distinguishing marks or erasures are
forbidden and make the ballot void. If you wrongly
mark, tear, or deface this ballot, return it to the
election official and obtain another.

After voting, place the voted ballot card into the
secrecy envelope provided and carefully remove
the top stub. Keep the stub as a record of having
voted. Place the secrecy envelope containing the
voted ballot card into the blue envelope.

IMPORTANT! Before sealing the blue envelope,
sign and date below the Oath on the blue envelope;
your signature must be verified before your ballot
can be counted. The blue envelope (containing
voted ballot) may be mailed or delivered to the
election official. You (the voter) may return your
own ballot, or (in the event of illness or other
physical disability) you may authorize your
spouse, child, parent, grandparent, grandchild,
brother, sister or person residing in your house-
hold to return the ballot on your behalf.

Because no polling place has been established
for this election, no postage is necessary for the
return of this ballot; however, please be aware
that postage paid mail may take longer for
delivery. Mail your ballot well in advance of
Election Day, August 30, 2016, to ensure it is
received in time to be counted. Ballots returned
by mail must be postmarked on or before Election
Day.

COUNTY
OF

SONOMA

VOTER INFORMATION
PAMPHLET

Kenwood School District

Special All Mailed Ballot
Election

August 30, 2016

Important Notice to Voters - election is being
conducted entirely by mail. There will be no polling
place established. The Official Ballot included in
this mailing is the only ballot you will receive - do
not destroy your Official Ballot.

For information regarding voting and returning your
ballot, please refer to the instructions printed on the
envelope in which your ballot was mailed.

This Voter Information Pamphlet was prepared and
distributed by:

The Sonoma County Registrar of Voters Office
435 Fiscal Drive
P.O. Box 11485,

Santa Rosa, CA 95406-1485

Phone: 565-6800 or 1-800-750-VOTE or TDD 565-6888

*Office hours: Monday - Friday 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.

*On August 30,2016, office hours will be 7 a.m. to 8 p.m.;
the tally of the votes will occur shortly thereafter.

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)
Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed
laws are the opinions of the authors.

KENWOOD SCHOOL DISTRICT
MEASURE B

To preserve quality education despite inadequate state

B funding and prevent further program cuts, shall the
Kenwood School District renew - without increasing -
the existing school parcel tax of $52.00 per year for a
period of five years, beginning July 1, 2017, with certain
specific exemptions as set forth in the Resolution and Order of
Election? Funds to be used for maintaining and enhancing
core programs and essential enrichment programs and
continuing our commitment to small class sizes.

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF
MEASURE B

The Kenwood School District has called a special all mailed-ballot
election on a special tax measure to fund educational programs. State law
requires voter approval before a school district can impose a special tax.

Currently, the District imposes a special tax of $52 per year per parcel
to fund educational programs. This tax expires on June 30,2017. The
measure now before the voters would continue this tax, at the same
rate, for another five years, commencing July 1,2017.

Proceeds of the tax would be placed in a special fund and could only
be used for the purposes set out in the measure, which include class
size reduction, and maintenance and enhancement of academic and
educational programs. The measure raises the District’s “spending
limit” for the maximum period (four years) allowed by state law to allow
the District to spend the proceeds of the tax for these purposes. State
law establishes additional accountability measures which require filing
of an annual report by the chief fiscal officer of the district stating the
amount of funds collected and expended, and the status of any project
required or authorized to be funded by the tax measure.

The tax would be applied to each unit of real property in the District
that receives a separate tax bill for property taxes. Multiple parcels
that are contiguous and are part of one economic unit under the same
name and ownership would be charged as one parcel. Parcels which
are exempt from property tax, or on which no property tax is otherwise
levied, are also exempt from this tax. The measure also exempts from
the tax parcels owned or partially owned and occupied by a person
who will be 65 years of age or older on or before May 1 of the next year
for which the tax is assessed. Persons claiming exemptions based on
ownership by a senior citizen would need to apply to the District for
this exemption by May 1 the first year it applied to them. The measure

CONT. NEXT COLUMN

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)
Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed
laws are the opinions of the authors.

requires the District to establish an administrative review process for
such exemption applications.

If two-thirds of the voters in the Kenwood School District who vote on
this measure vote “yes,” the measure will pass and the special tax will
be levied. The tax would be collected in the same manner as regular
property taxes starting with the 2017-2018 fiscal year.

BRUCE D. GOLDSTEIN
County Counsel

By: si Robert Pittman

Chief Deputy County Counsel

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE B

Kenwood Elementary School, with a district including roughly half of
Oakmont, has demonstrated tremendous academic success. These
achievements have been made possible by a parcel tax last approved
by voters in 2011, and due to expire on June 30,2017. A “Yes” vote on
Measure B will maintain your current annual assessment of $52 to
support the children of Kenwood School through June 2022.

In 2011, 81% of our community voted “Yes” in favor this parcel tax,
which collects approximately $100,000 per year. Here is why Kenwood
School has earned your support.

The school has fulfilled its promise that all proceeds from the tax would
be spent only on student programs, not on administration, pay raises or
facilities. The top priority will again be to continue the district’s commit-
ment to small class sizes and maintain and enhance core academic
programs and essential educational enrichment programs.

Kenwood School District is a small, basic aid district that does not
qualify for sufficient state funding to maintain its current standard of
excellence without additional assistance from the community. First
approved in 1991, it is even more essential today for this special tax
assessment to be successful, as the state budget has not restored
past cuts to public education. It’s clearly up to all of us to save our
local public schools.

Kenwood School has kept its promises, has a long history of academic
success and continues to provide the best possible educational
program and learning environment for the children of our community.
Please vote “Yes” to maintain this critical funding for our children.

si Alexander Peters	si	Howard	Jay Cobb

si Charles Ensley	si	Michael	O'Donnell

si Andrea Altman

NO ARGUMENT WAS SUBMITTED AGAINST MEASURE B

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)
Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed
laws are the opinions of the authors.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE B

Shall the Kenwood School District, serving the children of
Kenwood, provide funds for the purpose of continued reduction of class
size and the maintenance and enhancement of academic and
educational programs of the Kenwood School District by continuing
its current special tax based upon the use or right of use on each
assessor’s parcel within the boundaries of the Kenwood School
District for a period of five (5) years beginning July 1, 2017 and
increasing its appropriations limit for the maximum time allowed by
law by the amount of revenue generated by that special tax?

The special tax will be imposed in the amount of $52.00 per
year for each assessor’s parcel. The proceeds of the tax shall be
deposited in a special fund to be used for the purpose of continued
reduction of class size and the maintenance and enhancement of
academic and educational programs of the Kenwood School District.
Exemptions from the assessment will be made available as follows:

a.	To each individual in the District who will attain 65 years
on or before May 1 of the assessment year, and who
owns a beneficial interest in the parcel, or a divided or
undivided portion of such parcel, and who uses that parcel as
his or her principal place of residence.

b.	For the owner of a parcel which has been determined to
be unusable by the Sonoma County Assessor’s Office.

c.	For multiple parcels which are contiguous and are part of
one economic unit under the same name and ownership.
Such multiple parcels may be charged as one parcel.

Anyone claiming an exemption must apply to the District on or before
May 1,2017 or May 1 of any succeeding assessment year.

Any one application from a qualified applicant will provide an
exemption for the parcel for the remaining term of the assessment so
long as such applicant continues to qualify for the exemption. The
District shall establish an administrative review process to grant such
exemptions.