Ballot question

The following question appeared on the ballot:[i]

To simplify the City’s existing business license tax and to fund essential
City services such as police, fire, streets, libraries, and parks at current
levels, shall the City amend the tax to assess rates equally amongst
businesses regardless of function, imposing a minimum tax per business
of $26 per year plus 0.15% of gross receipts over $25,000, thereby
maintaining current annual revenues of approximately $3.2 million on an
ongoing basis?[2]

Impartial analysis

The following impartial analysis of the measure was prepared by the office of the
Monterey City Attorney:

Measure H is proposed by the Monterey City Council to update the City’s
existing business license tax. The existing business license tax structure
includes many classifications of businesses that pay different tax rates.
This structure will be repealed and replaced with one tax rate that applies
to all businesses. The proceeds of the tax can only be spent on City
services and cannot be taken away by the State.

The City has imposed the tax on businesses operating in the City since
1926. Under the existing business license tax structure, businesses are
taxed at different rates based on the classification of the business, for
example auctioneers, automobile repair shops, coin-operated scales and
service machines, contractors, vending machines, etc., are different
business classifications under the existing tax structure. There are 14
different tax structures based on the type of business. If this measure is
approved, a business’ gross receipts (revenues) will be taxed at the same
rate regardless of the type of business.

Existing law imposes a minimum tax (i.e., $15, $26, $41, $50, or $51) per
year and an additional tax based on gross receipts. The amount of the
additional tax on gross receipts also depends on the classification of the
business. For example, many businesses pay a minimum tax of $26 per
year, plus $3 for the first $12,500 in gross receipts, $6 per $2,500 in
additional gross receipts up to $37,500, and $3 per $2,500 in gross
receipts above $37,500. Measure H simplifies these tax structures by
maintaining a $26 tax on gross receipts up to $25,000 and imposing a tax
rate of 0.15 percent (.0015) of gross receipts above that amount for all
businesses. Thus, it eliminates the multiple tiers in the existing tax
structure and uses a consistent rate for gross receipts above the minimum
level. The new structure will increase the existing tax on some businesses
and reduce the tax for others. However, Measure H is not expected to
significantly change total tax payments to the City. Rather it is intended to
simplify administration of the tax and modernize the tax.

Under Measure H, disabled persons will continue to be exempt from the
tax, and honorably discharged veterans of the American military will now
also be exempt from the tax.

Business license tax revenues are paid into the City’s general fund which
is allocated by the City Council through the annual budget for general City
services such as police, fire, library services, recreation programs, parks,
and maintenance of City streets. Measure H will authorize the tax
administrator to adopt rules for its enforcement.

Measure H requires approval of a majority of voters. A “yes” vote for
Measure H is a vote in favor of adopting the updated business license tax.
A “no” vote against Measure H will reject the proposed amendments and
continue the business license tax in its present form. A full copy of the
ordinance is printed in these ballot materials.[2]

Monterey City Attorney[3]