Ballot question

The following question appeared on the ballot:[i]

MEASURE GSH: To maintain and improve Santa Monica community

44

services including support for preservation of affordable housing, reducing
homelessness, school repair and improvement, education of Santa
Monica children and students, and other general fund services, shall an
ordinance be adopted to increase by one-half percent Santa Monica’s
transactions and use tax, subject to independent annual audits, all funds
used locally, no money going to Sacramento, raising approximately $16
million annually, until ended by the voters?[2]

Impartial analysis

The following impartial analysis of the measure was prepared by the office of the Santa
Monica City Attorney:

BALLOT MEASURE AMENDING THE MUNICIPAL CODE TO
INCREASE THE TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX BY AN ADDITIONAL
ONE-HALF PERCENT OF THE SALE PRICE OF PERSONAL
PROPERTY

This measure proposes to raise local City of Santa Monica revenues by
amending the Municipal Code to increase the City’s transactions and use
tax by an additional 0.50%, from 0.50% to 1%, of the sales price of
personal property. This kind of tax is generally called a “sales” tax.
However, it is a legally different tax that is collected along with sales taxes
and administered by the State Board of Equalization. However, all
revenues generated would be paid into the City’s general fund, and none
would go to the state.

The increase in the City’s transactions and use tax would only apply to
goods and services that are subject to the existing tax. Items exempt from
the City’s transactions and use tax include, among other things,
purchases of prescription medications and food store items. These would
not be taxed. It is anticipated that the tax increase would raise
approximately $16 Million annually. It would remain in effect until the
voters decide to repeal or amend it.

The City Council voted by more than a two-thirds majority to approve the
proposed increase to the existing transactions and use tax; but the tax
increase can only go into effect if it is also approved by a majority of
voters at the November 2016 election. The current transactions and use
tax was approved by Santa Monica voters in 2010.

If the measure is passed by the voters, the services and programs that
potentially could receive funding include, but are not limited to: education,
afterschool programs, affordable housing, police, fire, paramedic and
emergency 911 response, public transit, environmental and library

services.

Accompanying the transactions and use tax measure is a non-binding
advisory measure, asking voters for their preference on how the additional
revenue should be used if the voters approve the measure. In particular,
voters are asked whether, if the measure passes, their preference is for
half of the additional revenues to be used to improve and maintain public
schools, with remaining half to improve and maintain affordable housing,
protect residents from displacement and reduce homelessness.

If the transactions and use tax increase passes, the City Council may be
guided by the voter’s decision on the advisory question in deciding how to
use the revenue. However, the City Council is not legally bound by the
outcome of the vote on the advisory question. The City Council can use
the revenue collected as a result of the measure for any lawful City
purpose.

The City Council placed this measure on the ballot. [2]

—Santa Monica City Attorneys

Full text

The full text of the measure is available here.

Support

Supporters

The following individuals signed the official argument in favor of the measure:[4]

•	Sarah Braff, President, Santa Monica-Malibu Classroom Teachers
Association

•	Michael Soloff, Chair, Santa Monica Housing Commission

•	Jennifer Smith, President, Santa Monica-Malibu Council of PTAs

•	Patricia Hoffman, Co-chair, Santa Monicans for Renters Rights

•	Barry Seid, District Coordinator, AARP

Arguments in favor

Official argument

The following official argument was submitted in favor of the measure:^]

Measure GSH will bring critically needed resources to protect renters,
seniors andworking families from losing their homes and help keep our
excellent schools strongand able to serve our community for years to
come. Every penny from Measure GSH will stay in Santa Monica and
cannot be taken away by Sacramento.

Voting Yes on GSH is a vote to maintain and protect the quality of our
local schools while also ensuring that rent burdened residents, often
seniors, are able to age in place and providing local workers with homes
near jobs, reducing local traffic.

Santa Monica had a proven, effective affordable housing program in place
until Sacramento raided city budgets. Measure GSH will help offset those
funding cuts and fund programs to provide stability for long-term residents.

Santa Monica has great schools, but State funding is unreliable and
doesn’t provide adequate funds to maintain them.

Passage of Measure GSH will help our local schools attract high quality
teachers, assist at-risk students, improve instruction in the arts, music,
math, and science, and provide ongoing maintenance at our schools,
reducing the cost of expensive repairs.

In addition, half of the funds from Measure GSH will be used for
preserving existing buildings as affordable housing for current and future
tenants, and for providing rental assistance and other affordable housing
opportunities to low-income families and seniors.

Measure GSH is a half-cent sales tax -- paid largely by tourists and
visitors -- to generate critically needed funds for City services, especially

for our schools and for programs to keep low income rent-burdened Santa
Monicans in their homes.

Measure GSH is supported by parents, grandparents, elected officials,
civic leaders, and local business leaders who know that high-quality
schools and a stable and diverse community are important.

Please vote Yes on Measure GSH.[2]

Opposition

Opponents

The following individuals signed the official argument against the measure:^]

•	Roberto Rodriguez, Santa Monica Renter

•	Roberto Rodriguez, Santa Monica Renter

•	Clara Benrey, Retired School Teacher

•	Donald Gray, Former Chair, Pico Neighborhood Assn.

•	Scott Kelso, Union Member

•	Robert Kronovet, Former Rent Board Commissioner

Arguments against

Official argument

The following official argument was submitted in opposition to the measure:^]

Vote NO on tax increase measure GSH Do you want MORE development
in Santa Monica?

Do you want to GIVE DEVELOPERS YOUR MONEY to over build our
city?

1.	This is a sales tax slated to fuel and accelerate even more high density,
multi-floor development.

2.	This tax does not expire and thus insures development given extra
height and density will continue forever, burdening infrastructure
(exacerbating water and traffic problems), eroding quality of life and
overcrowding schools.

3.	You will have no say where these large, high-density projects will be
built. The city has removed your right to review or protest all development
funded by this tax.

4.	New federal guidelines insure that projects must be placed in all areas
of the city. Even Sunset Park and north of Montana will experience
high-density development. All residential and all commercial property will
be targeted for these large buildings that exceed normal zoning rules and
are allowed reduced parking.

5.	This tax amount is exorbitant and is a regressive tax on lower income
residents. It will lead to higher housing costs, higher rents, and higher
prices for nearly everything you buy.

6.	This is yet another local increase to a sales tax voters approved in
2010. With additional County increases on this ballot; you will pay 10.5% -
11% on all purchases!

Measure GSH funds more development with your money.

Vote NO and save our city![2]