

% ! hereby certify, the forcing
t-jA instrument to be a full, t and
Ap correct copy of the original on file.

Attest:

Office ef tte Csitv Glertr

RESOLUTION NO. 16-54

jJJVdSO

9WZS0

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
ADELANTO AMENDING RESOLUTION NO. 16-48 AND SUBMITTING
AN ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF THE CITY’S PROPOSITION TO
AUTHORIZE IMPOSITION OF A GROSS REVENUE BUSINESS TAX

WHEREAS, the City of Adelanto (“City”) is holding a General Municipal Election, to
be consolidated with the statewide election, on November 8, 2016 in accordance Adelanto
Municipal Code section 1.15.010.

WHEREAS, City Council Resolution No. 16-48 (“Resolution 16-48”) submits a measure
to voters at the November 8, 2016 authorizing the imposition of a gross revenue business tax on
businesses within the City.

WHEREAS, Elections Code section 9282 authorizes the City Council to file a written
argument in favor of the business tax.

WHEREAS, Resolution 16-48 reserved the City Council’s right to file an argument in
favor of the City’s gross revenue business tax measure.

NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF ADELANTO
RESOLVES AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1: The above recitals are true and correct and are incorporated herein.

SECTION 2: Pursuant to Elections Code section 13119(b), the City Council hereby
amends Resolution 16-48, Section 2, to read as follows:

Pursuant to Elections Code sections 10201 and 9222, the City Council hereby
submits the following proposition to the voters at the General Municipal Election on
November 8, 2016:

Measure________—Gross Revenue Business Tax

Shall the Adelanto City Council be authorized to impose a tax, with
no termination date, on each business licensed or operating within the City
of Adelanto in the amount of not more than 0.05 percent of the gross
revenue attributable to that business’s revenue earned from within the City
of Adelanto, potentially generating several thousands of dollars annually in
additional tax revenue for the City of Adelanto?

YES

NO

SECTION 3: Pursuant to Elections Code section 9282(b) and Resolution 16-48, the City
Council hereby submits the following argument in favor of the measure for a Gross Revenue
Business Tax:

Argument In Favor Of Measure_________

Gross Revenue Business Tax

Submitted by the City Council for the City of Adelanto

The City of Adelanto (“City”) is working to cure the City’s long running budget deficits
without adding additional tax burdens on its citizens by adopting a fairer and more equitable
business tax structure. Rather than imposing additional taxes on the general public, or
overburdening small businesses, the City seeks to adopt a tax on businesses proportional to
their size and the benefits which they receive from the City. Larger more profitable businesses
reaping greater financial rewards from the City will shoulder a larger proportional tax burden
whereas smaller businesses deserve relief from burdensome taxes.

The City faces severe budget deficits and needs to find additional sources of revenue to avoid
municipal bankruptcy. The proposed tax will help create a fair, efficient, and stable source of
tax revenue for the City without having to tax the general public directly. The revenue
generated by this tax will ensure stability of the City’s business environment and the
continuity of essential municipal services. The tax burden meanwhile will be borne by
businesses according only to their gross revenue and capacity to pay.

Finally, the proposed tax rate is minimal and amounts to no more than a multiplier of only
0.0005 on businesses’ gross revenues.

In its ongoing efforts to address the City’s budget deficits, the City Council unanimously
supports this new business revenue tax and respectfully requests that People of Adelanto vote
in favor of this measure.

This is not a tax on the People of Adelanto.

City Council of the City of Adelanto

Richard Kerr, Mayor	Jermaine	Wright	Sr.,	Mayor	Pro	Tern

Ed Camargo, Council Member	Charley	B.	Glasper,	Council	Member

Resolution No. 16-54
Page 3

SECTION 4:	Pursuant	to	Elections	Code section 9285, the City Council hereby

authorizes Richard Kerr, Mayor for the City of Adelanto, to submit a rebuttal argument to any
argument submitted against the measure for a Gross Revenue Business Tax.

SECTION 5: All arguments submitted pursuant to this Resolution shall be submitted to
the San Bernardino Elections Office of the Registrar of Voters in accordance with the Elections
Code and other applicable laws.

SECTION 6:	The	City Council determines that this Resolution does not have the

potential to have a physical effect on the enviromnent. Therefore, pursuant to the California
Environmental Quality Act (“CEQA”) and its implementing regulations, this activity is not

subject to CEQA. (Cal. Pub. Res. Code, § 21000 et seq.; 14 Cal. Code Regs., §§ 15060(c)(2),
15378(a).)

SECTION 7: If any section, subsection, or other provision of this Resolution is for any
reason held to be invalid, unconstitutional, illegal, or unenforceable by any court of competent
jurisdiction, or contravened by reason of any preemptive legislation, then such section or
provision shall be severed and shall be inoperative, and the remainder of this Resolution shall
remain in full force and effect.

PASSED, APPROVED, AND ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of Adelanto on
this 3rd day of August, 2016.

Richard Kerr, Mayor

Attest:

7

Approved as to Form

I, Cindy M. Herrera, City Manager / City Clerk of the City of Adelanto, do hereby certify that
the foregoing Resolution No. 16-54 was duly adopted at a special meeting of the City Council of
the City of Adelanto held on the 3rd day of August, 2016, by the following votes:

AYES: Council Members Camargo, Glasper, and Mayor Kerr

NOES: None

ABSENT. Mayor Pro Tem Wright
ABSTAIN:	Council	Member	Woodard





/A/ //

Cindy M. Herrera, MMC, City Manager / City Clerk