AUG 0 3 2016

DEPUTY

ORDINANCE NO.

FVJSP?)RDINANCE OF THE PEOPLE OF THE TOWN OF YUCCA
VALLEY ADDING CHAPTER 3.28 TO THE YUCCA VALLEY
MUNICIPAL CODE IMPOSING A SPECIAL PURPOSE TEMPORARY
TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX TO BE ADMINISTERED BY THE
STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION, SUBJECT TO APPROVAL OF
TWO-THIRDS OF THE ELECTORS VOTING ON THE TAX MEASURE
AT THE GENERAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION TO BE HELD ON
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 8,2016.

THE FOREGOING INSTRUMENT IS A
CORRECT COPY OF THE ORIGINAL
ON FILE IN ™iS OFFICE. _

ATTEST

TOWN CLERK
TOWN OE YUCCA VALLEY, CAUFORNIA

_____u.m 2_____,20

WHEREAS, Revenue and Taxation Code section 7285.91 authorizes the governing
body of any city to levy a transactions and use tax under Part 1.6 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, the proceeds of which are designated for a specific purpose; and

WHEREAS, Revenue and Taxation Code section 7285.91 requires the governing body
of the city to adopt an ordinance proposing to levy a special purpose transactions and use tax by
a two-thirds vote of the body, and then submit the ordinance to the voters for approval, which
also must be by a two-thirds vote; and

WHEREAS, the Town Council and the People of the Town of Yucca Valley desire to
adopt a transactions and use tax pursuant to Revenue and Taxation Code section 7285.91 for the
purpose of subsidizing assessments being levied upon Town residents as a result of Town-wide
sewer improvements; and

WHEREAS, According to various studies, the prolonged use of septic systems in Yucca
Valley has resulted in the pollution of the local groundwater supply. Septic system discharge has
been slowly degrading local water quality for decades. Nitrates and other contaminants from
septic system discharge are currently reaching groundwater; and

WHEREAS, In an effort to address groundwater quality concerns, on March 10, 2016,
the California Regional Water Quality Control Board (“CRWQCB”) amended Resolution No.
R7-2011-0004 with the adoption of a groundwater Basin Plan Amendment that prohibits septic
tank discharges in Yucca Valley to protect groundwater quality as early as June 30, 2021 in
Phase 1 and June 30, 2025 for Phases 2 & 3; and

WHEREAS, The Hi-Desert Water District (“HDWD”) is constructing a sewer
collection system and wastewater reclamation facility (the “Sewer Project”) to assist property
owners in complying with State’s mandate. The Sewer Project will include:

•	Approximately 78 miles of sewer main;

•	Three pump stations;

•	A wastewater treatment and reclamation facility;

•	Replacing existing roads with new roads due to construction of the Sewer
Project.

WHEREAS, Goals of the Sewer Project include, without limitation:

•	To collect and treat local wastewater;

•	To keep septic discharge out of the local water supply;

•	To protect local water quality for future generations; and

•	To give residents access to reliable and affordable sewer service

WHEREAS, The Sewer Project’s completion would ensure compliance with State
mandates, prevent local residents from being fined for continued septic discharge, and most
importantly protect local groundwater; and

WHEREAS, The Sewer Project completion will enable restaurants, retail shops and
other businesses to easily connect to sewer service, and will remove an infrastructure obstacle to
new business development in the Town; and

WHEREAS, The Sewer Project is estimated to cost $150 million and HDWD is
financing the Sewer Project through a low-interest loan from the State Revolving Fund (the
“Loan”). HDWD proposes to form two assessment districts and levy an assessment on all
properties that will specially benefit from the Sewer Project. The proposed assessments include
construction costs, interest on the Loan, and certain incidental and administrative expenses
required in connection with the Loan. The proposed assessments allow property owners to
finance the Sewer Project to ease the financial burden of complying with the CRWQCB’s
prohibition and to construct the Sewer Project to protect the local groundwater supply; and

WHEREAS, Three benefit areas (phases) were established based upon the proportionate
special benefits that properties will receive from the sewer system as a whole. While properties
in Phase 1 will connect to the Sewer Project and begin receiving service when the first phase of
construction is complete, properties in Phases 2 and 3 will connect at a later time. These later
connecting properties identified in Phases 2 and 3 will also receive special benefits from Phase 1
of the Sewer Project and will be paying for their share of the treatment facilities and sewer lines
that they will use in the future. Because they are connecting at a later date, their first assessment
for Phase 1 is smaller and a second assessment district will be proposed for these properties to
secure funding to construct Phase 2 and 3 of the Sewer Project; and

WHEREAS, On May 13, 2015, property owners approved forming Assessment District
2014-1 by mail-in ballot to finance the cost to construct Phase 1 of the Sewer Project, with the
need for a subsequent assessment district formation or annexation by vote at a later date to secure
funding to fully construct Phases 2 and 3; and

WHEREAS, The Sewer Project assessments will be levied and be a lien on privately
and publicly owned properties for 30 years. The assessments will vary by property
classification, but in all cases will entail a significant financial contribution from the property
owners of the Town of Yucca Valley, with some single family residents being required to pay
approximately $700.00 per year, with commercial properties and other high-flow properties
subject to significantly higher costs; and

WHEREAS, Although the need for the Sewer Project is critical, some residents and
property owners in the Town may suffer substantial financial hardship as a result of the Sewer
Project assessments and connection costs described above; and

WHEREAS, The Town has heard a great deal from the community about the desire to
reduce the cost of the sewer assessment for local residents and received valuable input from the
community through the Town’s Strategic Planning Outreach activities; and

WHEREAS, For the past year, members of the Citizens for Lower Sewer Costs
Committee, and other community members, have been working with the Town to identify and
evaluate potential local revenue options to lower the cost of the sewer assessment for residents;
and

WHEREAS, The Citizens for Lower Sewer Costs Committee, along with other
community members and Town staff, have concluded that the best option available to the Town
to lower the cost of the sewer assessment is a one-half cent sales tax measure; and

WHEREAS, The Citizens for Lower Sewer Costs Committee recommends the Town
Council place a one-half cent sales tax measure to lower sewer assessment cost on the November
2016 ballot for voters’ consideration; and

WHEREAS, To facilitate the Sewer Project and subsidize assessments associated with
the Sewer Project, the Town Council of the Town of Yucca Valley desires to place a special
purpose transactions and use (sales) tax ordinance, as authorized by Revenue and Taxation Code
section 7285.91 and attached hereto as Exhibit A, as a measure before the voters at the
November 8, 2016 election consolidated with the general municipal election of that date. This
tax shall be a special tax, the revenues of which shall only be used to lower individual property
assessments in all three phases of the Sewer Project; and

WHEREAS, The proposed sewer measure is a special purpose measure that requires by
law that all measure funds are spent on reducing the costs of the sewer system for residents and
funds from the measure cannot be redirected or taken for other uses by the Town Council; and

WHEREAS, The proposed sewer measure will reduce the cost to taxpayers for funding
the sewer system by up to 30 percent per year; and

WHEREAS, The proposed sewer measure requires by law that all funds are spent
locally in Yucca Valley to equitably reduce the costs of the sewer system for all residents; and

WHEREAS, The proposed sewer measure is subject to review by an independent
citizens’ oversight committee, mandatory financial audits, and regular reports to the community
to ensure the funds are spent as promised; and

WHEREAS, The tax, if approved, would be imposed on the sale of tangible personal
property and the storage, use, or other consumption of such property, at a rate of one-half cent
per dollar (0.5%). The tax revenue would be collected by the State Board of Equalization and
remitted to the Town for dedication towards the lowering of Sewer Project assessments; and

WHEREAS, The proposed measure is a special purpose Sewer Project measure that
requires by law that all its proceeds be spent to lower Sewer Project assessment rates, either
directly or through contribution towards direct Sewer Project costs, and cannot be redirected or
taken by the Town Council for other uses. The proposed special tax would equitably subsidize
Sewer Project assessments and costs in all phases of the Project in the existing Assessment
District 2014-1, inclusive of any annexations into Assessment District 2014-1 for the eventual
completion of Phases 2 & 3. Should a new assessment district be established in lieu of
annexation into the existing Assessment District 2014-1 for the primary purpose of the
completion of Phases 2 & 3 of the Sewer Project, the proposed special tax would be applied
equally toward the gross total assessment of all assessment districts, as if the assessment districts
were one. As a special purpose tax, the proposed measure can only be approved if it receives at
least a two-thirds vote at the general municipal election to be held on November 8, 2016; and

WHEREAS, If approved by the voters, such tax would be administered and distributed
in accordance with a legal and binding agreement entered into between the Town of Yucca
Valley and the HDWD, which would specify an expenditure method ensuring that special tax
proceeds are utilized to lower assessments associated with the Sewer Project. It is contemplated
that such agreement would lower citizen assessments by dedicating the special tax proceeds to
the annual debt service on the Loan secured by Assessment District 2014-1, with an
administrative cost not to exceed five (5) percent. Further such agreement would require the
annual reporting and notification to affected property owners by the HDWD of the assessment
reduction that is attributable to the proceeds of the special tax; and

WHEREAS, A general municipal election on Tuesday, November 8, 2016, has been
called by Resolution No. 16-15, adopted on June 7, 2016; and

WHEREAS, On the basis of the foregoing, the Town Council held a noticed public
hearing on August 2, 2016, and the Town Council hereby determines it is appropriate to place
the special tax measure before the voters at the November 8, 2016, general municipal election.

NOW THEREFORE, on the basis of the foregoing, the People of the Town of Yucca
Valley at the November 8, 2016, general municipal election do hereby Ordain as follows:

SECTION I. A new Chapter 3.28 is hereby added to the Yucca Valley Municipal Code
to read as follows:

“Chapter 3.28”

SEWER IMPLEMENTATION AND ASSESSMENT ASSISTANCE
TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX

3.28.010: SHORT TITLE:

This Chapter shall be known as the Town of Yucca Valley Sewer Implementation
and Assessment Assistance Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance. This Chapter
shall be applicable only in the incorporated territory of the Town.

3.28.020: BASIC DEFINITIONS:

A.	As used in this Chapter, "Town" means the Town of Yucca Valley
and "tax" means the temporary transactions and use tax (special tax) imposed
under the provisions of this Chapter. The tax imposed in this Chapter is a special
tax, the funds of which shall be dedicated towards those sewer implementation
purposes described in Section 3.28.090.

B.	As used in this Chapter, "Hi-Desert Water District" means that
county water district by the same name organized and operating pursuant to the
provisions of the County Water District Law, Water Code §§ 30000 et seq.

C.	As used in this Chapter, "Sewer Project" means that Town-wide
conversion of septic systems to a sewer collection system and construction of
wastewater reclamation facilities, recharge ponds and appurtenances, all as
undertaken by the Hi-Desert Water District in response to California Regional
Water Quality Control Board Resolution No. R7-2011-0004 adopted on May 19,
2011.

D.	As used in this Chapter, "Assessment" means all assessed rates
levied in the Town pursuant to the provisions of the "Municipal Improvement Act
of 1913" (being Division 12 of the Streets and Highways Code of the State of
California, commencing with Section 10000), for purposes of financing the'costs
constructing the Sewer Project, including rates adopted for Assessment District
2014-1 and subsequent assessment districts formed or annexed by vote in relation
thereto.

3.28.030: OPERATIVE DATE:

"Operative Date" means the first day that the tax is imposed. The “operative
date” means the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing more than 110
days after the effective date of this Chapter, such effective date being as set forth
below.

3.28.040: GENERAL PURPOSE:

This Chapter is adopted to achieve the following, among other purposes,
and directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish those
purposes:

A.	To impose a special, temporary retail transactions and use tax in
accordance with the provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code and Section 7285.91 of Part 1.7 of
Division 2, which authorizes the Town to adopt this special tax ordinance, which
shall be operative if two-thirds of the electors voting on the measure vote to
approve the imposition of the tax at an election called for that purpose.

B.	To adopt a temporary retail transactions and use tax (special tax)
ordinance that incorporates provisions identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax
Law of the State of California insofar as those provisions are not inconsistent with

the requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a temporary retail transactions and use tax ordinance that
imposes a special tax and provides a measure therefore that may be administered
and collected by the State Board of Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as
fully as practicable to, and requires the least possible deviation from, the existing
statutory and administrative procedures followed by the State Board of
Equalization in administering and collecting the California State Sales and Use
Taxes.

D.	To adopt a special, temporary retail transactions and use tax
ordinance that may be administered in a manner that will be, to the greatest
degree possible, consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting the transactions and
use taxes, and at the same time, minimize the burden of record keeping upon
persons subject to taxation under the provisions of this ordinance.

3.28.050: CONTRACT WITH STATE:

Prior to the operative date, the Town shall contract with the State Board of
Equalization to perform all functions incident to the administration and operation
of this special transactions and use tax ordinance; provided however, that if the
Town shall not have contracted with the State Board of Equalization prior to the
operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract and in such a case the operative
date shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter following the execution of
such a contract.

3.28.060: IMPOSITION OF TRANSACTIONS TAX; TRANSACTIONS TAX
RATE:

For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax is hereby
imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated territory of the Town at the rate of
one-half cent per dollar (0.5%) of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale
of all tangible personal property sold at retail in said territory on and after the
operative date of this Chapter.

3.28.070: PLACE OF SALE:

For the purposes of this Chapter, all retail sales are consummated at the place of
business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is delivered by
the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for
delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall
include delivery charges, when such charges are subject to the State sales and use
tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has
no permanent place of business in the State or has more than one place of
business, the place or places at which the retail sales are consummated shall be

determined under rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the State
Board of Equalization.

3.28.080: USE TAX RATE:

An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other consumption in the
Town of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on and after the
operative date of this Chapter for storage, use or other consumption in said
territory at the rate of one-half cent per dollar (0.5%) of the sales price of the
property. The sales price shall include delivery charges when such charges are
subject to State sales or use tax regardless of the place to which delivery is made.

3.28.090:	SPECIAL	PURPOSE; DEDICATION OF TAX PROCEEDS

TOWARDS SEWER IMPLEMENTATION; LOWERING OF CITIZEN SEWER
ASSESSMENTS:

A.	The tax established by this Chapter is a special tax, the proceeds of
which are dedicated towards subsidizing those Assessments levied upon Town
citizens for Sewer Project implementation.

B.	Revenue and Taxation Code section 7285.91 requires that this
ordinance include “an expenditure plan describing the specific projects for which
the revenues from the tax may be expended.” All revenue from the tax shall be
restricted revenue, expended solely to fund the Sewer Project in such a manner as
to lower Sewer Project Assessments levied upon citizens in the Town of Yucca
Valley. The Town shall negotiate an agreement with the Hi-Desert Water District
under which Town will remit payments of the tax proceeds towards the Sewer
Project on an agreed-upon basis, subject to the following terms:

1.	The Town’s allocation of the tax proceeds towards the
Sewer Project shall be credited towards Sewer Project Assessments
imposed upon Town citizens,

2.	The tax proceeds shall be credited towards Sewer Project
Assessments equitably amongst all Assessment payers in all Sewer Project
phases, such that all Assessment payers will receive the same pro-rata
percentage decrease in their Assessments,

3.	The tax proceeds shall not be used to pay for any Sewer
Project services or improvements already provided by a governmental or
private entity or in a manner that would diminish or replace services
provided by the Hi-Desert Water District,

4.	The tax proceeds may be used to pay for the Town’s costs
associated with those independent audits, special fund management and
administrative costs associated with the tax required by this Chapter,
excepting that payment of administrative costs shall not exceed five (5)
percent of the annual tax proceeds in any annual period, and

5.	The Town’s expenditure of tax proceeds shall be made on a
regular basis on a frequency to be determined by Town and in
conformance with the State Board of Equalization’s allocation of such
proceeds to the Town.

In the event the Town and Hi-Desert Water District are unable to reach mutual
agreement upon the foregoing terms, the Town shall undertake an alternative
method of utilizing the tax proceeds to directly achieve lower Assessments in an
equitable manner for all Sewer Project phases, in accord with the foregoing
expenditure terms (1) through (5). In any event, any expenditure of tax proceeds
shall be undertaken for the sole purpose of decreasing or subsidizing Assessments
equitably in all Sewer Project phases.

C.	When received by the Town, the proceeds resulting from the
transactions and use tax imposed by this Chapter shall be deposited into a special
fund established by the Town as the “Sewer Project Assessment Assistance
Fund”. The Town's independent auditors shall complete a report reviewing the
collection, management and expenditure of revenue from the tax levied by this
Chapter. The independent auditor's report shall include an accounting of the
revenues received and expenditures made from the Sewer Project Assessment
Assistance Fund annually to the Town Council and made available for public
review. The Town Council shall, as part of the Town's regular budget process,
annually review, direct and adopt an expenditure plan for the Sewer Project
Assessment Assistance Fund, applying the proceeds of the transactions and use
tax consistent with the requirements of this Chapter. In no event shall the Town
Council have authority to direct a use of tax proceeds that is inconsistent with the
purposes expressed in this Chapter.

3.28.100: ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW:

Except as otherwise provided in this Chapter and except insofar as they are
inconsistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a part
of this Chapter as though fully set forth herein.

3.28.110:	LIMITATIONS	ON	ADOPTION	OF STATE LAW AND

COLLECTION OF USE TAXES:

In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code:

A. Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the
taxing agency, the name of the Town shall be substituted therefore. However, the
substitution shall not be made when:

1.	The word "State" is used as a part of the title of the State
Controller, State Treasurer, State Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or the
Constitution of the State of California.

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be
taken by or against this Town or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather
than by or against the State Board of Equalization, in performing the functions
incident to the administration or operation of this Chapter.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to,
sections referring to the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the
result of the substitution would be to:

i.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to
certain sales, storage, use or other consumption of
tangible personal property, which would not otherwise
be exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use
or other consumption remain subject to tax by the State
under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, or

ii.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage,
use or other consumption of tangible personal property,
which would not be subject to tax by the State under the
said provision of that code.

4.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof),
6711, 6715, 6737, 6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

B. The word "Town" shall be substituted for the word "State" in the
phrase "retailer engaged in business in this State" in Section 6203 and in the
definition of that phrase in Section 6203 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

3.28.120: PERMIT NOT REQUIRED:

If a seller's permit has been issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code, an additional transactor's permit shall not be required by this
Chapter.

3.28.130: EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS:

A. There shall be excluded from the measure of the special
transactions tax and the use tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by
the State of California or by any city, city and county, or county pursuant to the
Bradley-Bums Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the amount of any state-
administered transactions or use tax.

B. There are exempted from the computation of the amount of special
transactions tax the gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or
petroleum products, to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally
outside the county in which the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the
use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property under the authority
of the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the Town which is
shipped to a point outside the Town, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery
to such point by the retailer or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier
for shipment to a consignee at such point. For the purposes of this paragraph,
delivery to a point outside the Town shall be satisfied:

i.	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial
vehicles) subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1
(commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the
Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with
Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and
undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5
(commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code
by registration to an out-of-Town address and by a
declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the
buyer, stating that such address is, in fact, his or her
principal place of residence; and

ii.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to
a place of business out-of-Town and declaration under
penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, that the vehicle
will be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is
obligated to furnish the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered
into prior to the operative date of this Chapter.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing
sale of such property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to
lease the property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of
this Chapter.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this
section, the sale or lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be
obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any
party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract
or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the special use tax imposed by this
Chapter, the storage, use or other consumption in this Town of tangible personal
property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject

to a transactions tax under any State-administered transactions and use tax
ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by
operators of aircraft and used or consumed by such operators directly and
exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property
for hire or compensation under a certificate of public convenience and necessity
issued pursuant to the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign
government. This exemption is in addition to the exemptions provided in
Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of
California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a
fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this
Chapter.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power
over, the tangible personal property arises under a lease which is a continuing
purchase of such property for any period of time for which the lessee is obligated
to lease the property for an amount fixed by a lease prior to the operative date of
this Chapter.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this
section, storage, use, or other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any
right or power over, tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be
obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any
party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract
or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged
in business in the Town shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser
of tangible personal property, unless the retailer ships or delivers the property into
the Town or participates within the Town in making the sale of the property,
including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving the order, either directly or
indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer in the Town or through any
representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the Town under
the authority of the retailer.

7.	"A retailer engaged in business in the Town" shall also
include any retailer of any of the following: vehicles subject to registration
pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the
Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public

Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5
(commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be
required to collect use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the
vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the Town.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this Chapter may credit
against that tax any transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to
a district imposing, or retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code with respect to the sale to the
person of the property the storage, use or other consumption of which is subject to
the use tax.

3.28.140: CHANGES IN LAW:

All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this Chapter to Part 1 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and
which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part of this
Chapter, provided however, that no such amendment shall operate so as to affect
the rate of tax imposed by this Chapter.

3.28.150: ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN:

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in
any suit, action or proceeding in any court against the State or the Town, or
against any officer of the State or the Town, to prevent or enjoin the collection
under this Chapter, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code,
of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.

3.28.180: EFFECTIVE DATE:

This Chapter levying the special tax described herein shall be effective ten (10)
days after the date on which the Town Council has declared that the voters of the
Town of Yucca Valley have approved the Chapter by a vote of no less than two-
thirds of the votes cast by the electors voting on the tax measure set forth in this
Chapter at that general municipal election to be held on Tuesday, November 8,
2016.

3.28.190: TERMINATION DATE:

The authority to levy the special tax imposed by this Chapter shall expire ten (10)
years from the operative date.

3.28.200: CITIZEN SPECIAL TAX OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE:

An Independent Citizens’ Special Tax Oversight Committee appointed by the
Town Council shall review the expenditures of revenues generated by the tax

imposed by this Chapter, confirm that expenditures are undertaken for the
specified purposes to which the tax proceeds are dedicated under this Chapter,
and make the results of such review publicly available. Such Committee shall
meet and be subject to all provisions of the Ralph M. Brown Act, Government
Code Sections 54950 et seq.

3.28.210: PENALTIES:

Without limiting any remedies available at law or equity, any person violating any
of the provisions of this Chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.

3.28.220: AMENDMENTS:

The tax rate in this Chapter may only be increased by a vote of the people of the
Town of Yucca Valley; provided, however, that the Town Council may amend
this Chapter to reduce the amount of the tax authorized herein or to otherwise
implement or advance the purpose and intent of this Chapter.”

SECTION 2. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this ordinance or
the application thereof to any person or circumstance is for any reason held to be invalid, such
decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this ordinance. The People of
the Town of Yucca Valley hereby declared that they would have passed each subsection,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause, or phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one
or more subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause, or phrase be declared
unconstitutional.

SECTION 3. The adoption of this ordinance is not a "project" subject to the
requirements of the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) (Public Resources Code
Section §§ 21000 et seq.). CEQA Guideline 15378(b)(4) provides that the creation of
government funding mechanisms or other government fiscal activities that do not involve any
commitment to a specific project that may result in a potentially significant physical impact on
the environment are not projects subject to the requirements of CEQA.

I hereby certify that Ordinance No._was passed, approved and adopted by the People

of the Town of Yucca Valley, California, voting on the 8th day of November, 2016.

MAYOR

ATTEST:

TOWN CLERK

Ordinance No. ____was submitted to the People of the Town of Yucca Valley at the

November 8, 2016, general municipal election. It was approved by the following vote of the
electors:

YES:________

NO:



State of California )

County of San Bernardino)

Town of Yucca Valley ’ )

I, Lesley Copeland, Clerk of the Town of Yucca Valley, do hereby certify that the
foregoing Ordinance was approved for placement on the ballot at the regular meeting of the
Town of Yucca Valley Town Council on the 2nd day of August, 2016, and was passed by the
following vote:

AYES:

NOES:

ABSTAIN:

ABSENT:

Lesley Copeland, Town Clerk