Argument in Favor of YES on S (City of Sanger)

Are you concerned about gangs, drugs and 911? So are we! To maintain Sanger's public safety
with NO increase in tax rate, vote YES on S!

YES on S is a win-win for our community. Measure S prevents cuts to our vital public safety
services without increasing taxes. YES on S simply continues existing, voter-approved public
safety funding. NO money can be taken by Sacramento politicians. By law, ALL funds can only
be spent on our public safety and 911 services.

Drug trafficking and gang violence have skyrocketed in the Central Valley. With prisoners being
released early, more and more gangs are coming into Sanger. We can't afford to allow Sanger
to be overrun by gangs and drugs! We need YES on S to keep enough police officers on Sanger's
streets and prevent cuts to our gang prevention programs.

YES on S has made it possible to for Sanger's police officers and first responders to keep you
safe. Thanks to you. Measure S has purchased law enforcement equipment such as police
vehicles, police radios, and firefighter life-saving tools such as the "jaws of life."

Without Measure S the number of paramedics will be reduced -- and five Sanger police officers
will be cut. The nearest emergency room and trauma center is more than 20 minutes away in
Fresno.

Maintaining 911 response times is critical for stopping crime, protecting victims and saving
lives. We must not allow local residents to be put in danger by reducing the number of officers
patrolling our neighborhoods or paramedics responding to emergency calls.

Here's what Measure S WON'T do:

-Again, Measure S WON'T increase your tax rates
-Measure S funds cannot be used for any other purpose

Join Sanger police officers and firefighters in voting YES on S.

AUG mots

FRESNO COUNTY CLERK

By.

DEPUTY

2016 AiJG 22 ph l: 17:00

VERIFICATION

The undersigned author(s) of the primary argument in favor of ballot Measure S at the
General Presidential election for the City of Sanger to be held on November 8, 2016 hereby
state that this argument is true and correct to the best of their knowledge and belief.

Reyes Carrillo/Presicj^nt, Sanger

Police Officers Association

I

i

ProvTpm Raul Cantu

Date

Council Member Huimberto Garza,

VERIFICATION

The undersigned author of the primary argument in favor of ballot Measure S at the
General Presidential election for the City of Sanger to be held on November 8, 2016 hereby
states that this argument is true and correct to the best of his knowledge and belief.

—-----■=----—-— --------------

Gerald K. Sanders, Member, Sanger Firefighters Association

Date

si zz on« sios