MEASURE A

CITY OF COLUSA (3/4 Cent General Sales Tax Measure)	
“Shall an ordinance be adopted authorizing the City of Colusa to increase the sales tax (Transactions and Use Tax) by three-quarters of one percent for general municipal purposes for a period of seven years?”	YES
	NO

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS
OF MEASURE A
CITY OF COLUSA

Measure A is a three-quarters of one percent (0.75%)
transactions and use tax to be used for general municipal
purpose in the City of Colusa. This tax is a “general
tax” which means that revenues from the tax would be
deposited into the City’s general fund and could be used
to fund any municipal expenses.

State law authorizes cities to adopt Transaction and Use
Tax ordinances with voter approval and to have those
taxes administered by the State Board of Equalization.
Measure A was placed on the ballot by the City Council
to ask the voters of Colusa to approve the tax at a rate of
three-quarters of one percent (0.75%). The transactions
and use tax would be added to the current sales tax rate
in the City of 7.50%, for a total of 8.25%, and would be
collected at the same time and in the same manner as
the existing sales tax. This transactions and use tax will
expire seven (7) years from its Effective Date.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE A
(3/4 Cent General Sales Tax Measure)

The City of Colusa is currently facing a budget deficit
caused by lack of sales tax revenue and the State shifting
government expenses onto Cities and Counties. The
City’s general fund is used to pay for police, fire, streets,
parks and tree services which are predominantly derived
from sales tax revenue. The decline of City revenue
sources, along with State mandates, and the lasting
impact of the Great Recession have created a condition
of fiscal danger and the possibility of future bankruptcy
for the City. Next year, the City will run a $234,866 budget
deficit and projects a continued future use of general
fund reserves in order to cover expenditure requirements.
The City anticipates by 2020 all general funds reserves
will reach zero. With a YES vote, the City will be able
to ensure financial sustainability to maintain police and
fire services which consumes a majority of the general
funds resources. How would a YES vote impact you
personally? A YES vote means that if you were to buy
a $2.00 TAXABLE item, you would pay an additional 1.5
cents if the measure passes. Approximately, $450,000
could be generated annually to help fund essential
services, and it is estimated that 60% would be from out
of town tax payer dollars. Failure of Measure A will force
a mandatory cut in City services and personnel, primarily
in safety personnel which is not in the best interest of the
citizens. Passage of Measure A will ensure the City of
Colusa receives sufficient sales tax revenue in order to
continue to provide the level of services that the citizens
have come to depend on.

Vote Yes on Measure A.

/s/ Thomas Reische,

Mayor, Colusa City Council

/s/ Kirk Kelleher,

Mayor Pro Tern, Colusa City Council

/s/ Greg Ponciano,

Councilmember, Colusa City Council

A “yes” vote is a vote to approve adoption of the proposed
three-quarters of one percent (0.75%) transactions and
use tax, the proceeds to be used for general municipal
purposes. A “no” vote is a vote to reject the adoption
of the tax. Measure A will be approved if a majority of
the voters voting on Measure A at the November 8, 2016
election vote yes.

/s/ Ryan R. Jones
City Attorney

/s/ David Womble,

Councilmember, Colusa City Council

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE A
(3/4 Cent General Sales Tax Measure)

None Filed

06/28

RESOLUTION NO. 16-19

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF COLUSA CALLING
FOR THE PLACEMENT OF A GENERAL TAX MEASURE ON THE BALLOT OF
THE NOVEMBER 8, 2016, ELECTION TO ADOPT A SALES TAX (TRANSACTIONS
AND USE TAX); ESTABLISHING POLICIES AND PROCEDURES IN
CONNECTION WITH SUCH AN ELECTION; AND REQUESTING THE SERVICES

OF THE REGISTRAR OF VOTERS IN CONDUCTING SAID ELECTION

WHEREAS, the City Council (“Council”) of the City of Colusa (“City”) holds the
authority to levy a Transactions and Use Tax (“Sales Tax”) for general purposes pursuant to
California Revenue and Taxation Code section 7285.9, subject to approval by a majority vote of
the electorate pursuant to Article XIIIC, Section 2 of the California Constitution (“Proposition
218”); and

WHEREAS, the Council desires to place a ballot measure before the voters at the
November 8, 2016, general election to increase the current Sales Tax of one-quarter of a one
percent by three-quarters of one percent, for a period of 7 years, on the sale of all tangible
personal property sold at retail in the City as set forth in the proposed Ordinance attached hereto
as “Exhibit A” and incorporated herein (the “Ordinance”); and

WHEREAS, in order for the Sales Tax to become effective, it must be approved by a
majority vote of the electorate; and

WHEREAS, the Sales Tax is a general tax, the revenue of which will be placed in the
City’s general fund and will be used to pay for essential City services; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Proposition 218, any general tax measure submitted to the
voters must be consolidated with a regularly scheduled general election for members of the
Council except in cases of emergency, as determined by a unanimous vote of the Council; and

WHEREAS, the next regularly scheduled general election at which Council members are
to be elected is November 8, 2016; and

WHEREAS, the Council is authorized to request that this municipal election
(“Municipal Election”) be consolidated with other elections to be held on November 8, 2016, in
the same territory (California Elections Code 10400 et seq.); and

WHEREAS, to minimize the expense of conducting the Municipal Election, the Council
desires to consolidate its election with the November 8,2016, statewide election;

NOW, THEREFORE, be it resolved by the Council of the City of Colusa as follows:

1

Section 1. The foregoing recitals are true and correct, and this Council so finds and
determines.

Section 2. The City Council, pursuant to its right and authority, does call a Municipal
Election and orders submitted to the voters at a Municipal Election to be held and consolidated
with the Statewide General Election on Tuesday, November 8, 2016, the following questions:

BALLOT MEASURE #

Shall an ordinance be adopted authorizing the City of Colusa to increase the
sales tax (Transactions and Use Tax) by three-quarters of one percent for general
municipal purposes for a period of seven years?

YES

NO

Section 3. The Ordinance authorizing the general tax to be approved by the voters is set
forth in Exhibit A. The City Council hereby approves the ordinance, the form thereof, and its
submission to the voters of the City at the November 8, 2016, election, as required by Revenue
and Taxation Code section 7285.9. If a simple majority of the qualified voters voting on the
Ordinance shall vote in favor thereof, the Ordinance shall be deemed adopted and shall be
effective in accordance with its terms. The Ordinance specifies that the rate of the transactions
tax shall be increased by three-quarters of one percent (0.75%) of the gross receipts of any
retailer from the sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail in the City. It specifies that
the rate of the use tax shall be increased by three-quarters of one percent (0.75%) of the sales
price of tangible personal property stored, used, or otherwise consumed in the City. The State
Board of Equalization shall collect the tax from retailers subject to the tax and remit the funds to
the City.

Section 4. The City Council of the City of Colusa hereby requests and consents to the
consolidation of this election with other elections which may be held in whole or in part in the
territory of the City as provided in Elections Code 10400 et seq. The City Clerk shall file a
certified copy of this Resolution with the Colusa County Clerk/Registrar of Voters to ensure the
requisite timeframes for holding the election as required by applicable law.

Section 5.

a.	The City hereby requests the Board of Supervisors of the County to consolidate the
Municipal Election with the statewide election being conducted on the same date in the
same territory or any territory which is in part the same, and the City consents to reimburse
the Registrar of Voters for all costs incurred by said services. Pending approval of such
request, the Municipal Election will be consolidated with any election held by the County.
In any event, the Municipal Election will be held on November 8, 2016, from the hour of
7:00 a.m. to the hour of 8:00 p.m., during which period of time the polls will remain
continuously open. At 8:00 p.m. the polls will be closed, except as provided in Section
14401 of the Elections Code, and the officers of the election shall thereupon proceed to
canvass the ballots cast there at.

2

b.	The election precincts, polling places, and voting booths within said City for said Municipal
Election shall in every case be the same as the election precincts, polling places, and voting
booths established for the statewide election, and the election officers for said Municipal
Election shall be the same as those selected and designated or to be selected and designated
for the statewide election.

c.	Said Municipal Election shall be held and conducted, and the voters thereof canvassed, and
the returns thereof made, all in accordance with the general election laws of the State of
California and the ordinances of said City.

d.	All persons qualified to vote at municipal elections in said City shall be qualified to vote.

e.	Said Council shall meet forthwith after the canvass of the returns of said election and shall
state in the minutes of such meeting the results of said election as ascertained by said
canvass.

Section 6. The City Cleric of the City of Colusa is hereby authorized to sign a Notice of
Election and Measure to Be Voted On in a form substantially similar to that attached hereto as
Exhibit B. The City Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to publish said Notice of Election
and Measure To Be Voted On at least one time not later than a week before the election in a
newspaper of general circulation circulated within the City of Colusa, in accordance with the
provisions of Section 12111 of the Elections Code of the State of California.

Section 7. The City Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to cause to be delivered, no
later than August 12, 2016, (which date is not fewer than 88 days prior to the date set for the
statewide election), one copy of this Resolution to the Registrar of Voters of the County.

Section 8. The City Council hereby directs the City Clerk to transmit a copy of the measure
to the City Attorney. The City Attorney shall prepare an impartial analysis of the measure, not
to exceed 500 words in length, showing the effect of the measure on the existing law and the
operation of the measure, and transmit such impartial analysis to the City Clerk no later than
July 29,2016.

Section 9. The Finance Director of the City is hereby authorized and directed to prepare and
file with the City Clerk an impartial analysis of the measure contained in Section 2 hereof
covering its financial impact upon the City government no later than July 28,2016.

Section 10. Pursuant to Section 9282 of the Elections Code of the State of California, the
legislative body of the City of Colusa, or any member or members of the legislative body
authorized by the body, or any individual voter who is eligible to vote on the measure or bona
fide association of citizens, or any combination of voters and associations, may file a written
argument, not to exceed 300 words in length, accompanied by the printed name(s) and
signature(s) of the person(s) submitting it, or if submitted on behalf of an organization, the
name of the organization, and the printed name and signature of at least one of its principal
officers, for or against the City measure.

3

Section 11. This tax is a general tax requiring the approval of a simple majority of the
qualified elector’s casting votes.

Section 12. This Resolution shall take effect immediately upon its adoption.

I HEREBY CERTIFY that the foregoing resolution was introduced, read, and adopted at a
regular meeting of the City Council on the 7th day of June 2016, by a two-thirds vote of the
Council, by the following vote:

AYES: Womble, Kelleher, Ponciano and Reische.
NOES: None.

ABSENT: None.

ABSTAIN: None.

__TA-/	 7	y	[)

Attest:

4

Exhibit A

Ordinance

ORDINANCE NO._______________

AN ORDINANCE OF THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF COLUSA ADDING
CHAPTER 8, ARTICLE IX TO THE COLUSA MUNICIPAL IMPOSING A
TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX TO BE ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE BOARD

OF EQUALIZATION, AS APPROVED BY A MAJORITY OF THE ELECTORS
VOTING AT A STATEWIDE ELECTION HELD ON NOVEMBER 8,2016, WITHIN

THE CITY OF COLUSA

The People and the City Council of the City of Colusa, California, do ordain as follows:

SECTION 1: The Colusa Municipal Code shall be amended to add, Chapter 8, Article IX. -
Transactions and Use Tax, to read as follows:

“Sec. 8-65. Title:

This article shall be known as the City of Colusa Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance. The
City of Colusa hereinafter shall be called "city." This article shall be applicable in the
incorporated territory of the city.

Sec. 8-66. Operative date:

"Operative date" means the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing more than one
hundred ten days after the adoption of the ordinance codified in this article, the date of such
adoption being as set forth below.

Sec 8-67. Purpose:

This article is adopted to achieve the following, among other purposes, and directs that the
provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish those purposes:

(a)	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the provisions of Part 1.6
(commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code and
Section 7285.9 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 which authorizes the city to adopt this tax
ordinance which shall be operative if a majority of the electors voting on the measure
vote to approve the imposition of the tax at an election called for that purpose.

(b)	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates provisions
identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California insofar as
those provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained in
Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

(c)	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax and provides a
measure therefore that can be administered and collected by the State Board of
Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and requires the
least possible deviation from, the existing statutory and administrative procedures
followed by the State Board of Equalization in administering and collecting the
California State Sales and Use Taxes.

5

(d)	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be administered in a
manner that will be, to the greatest degree possible, consistent with the provisions of
Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of
collecting the transactions and use taxes, and at the same time, minimize the burden of
record keeping upon persons subject to taxation under the provisions of this article.

Sec. 8-68. - Contract with state.

Prior to the operative date, the city shall contract with the State Board of Equalization to
perform all functions incident to the administration and operation of this transactions
and use tax ordinance; provided, that if the city shall not have contracted with the State
Board of Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract and in
such a case the operative date shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter
following the execution of such a contract.

Sec. 8-69. - Transactions tax rate.

For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed
upon all retailers in the city at the rate of three-quarters of one percent of the gross
receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail in
said territory on and after the operative date of the ordinance codified in this article.

Sec. 8-70. - Place of sale.

For the purposes of this article, all retail sales are consummated at the place of business
of the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is delivered by the retailer or
his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for delivery to an out-of-
state destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery charges,
when such charges are subject to the state sales and use tax, regardless of the place to
which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the
state or has more than one place of business, die place or places at which the retail sales
are consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations to be prescribed and
adopted by the State Board of Equalization.

Sec. 8-71. - Use tax rate.

A use tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other consumption in the city of
tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on and after the operative date of
the ordinance codified in this article for storage, use or other consumption in said
territory at the rate of three-quarters of one percent of the sales price of the property.
The sales price shall include delivery charges when such charges are subject to state
sales or use tax regardless of the place to which delivery is made.

6

Sec. 8-72. - Adoption of provisions of state law.

Except as otherwise provided in this article and except insofar as they are inconsistent
with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of
the provisions of Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a part of this article as though fully set
forth herein.

Sec. 8-73. - Limitations on adoption of state law and collection of use taxes.

In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code:

a) Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the name
of this city shall be substituted therefore. However, the substitution shall not be made
when:

(1)	The word "State" is used as a part of the title of the state controller, state treasurer,
State Board of Control, State Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or the
Constitution of the State of California;

(2)	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against this
city or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by or against the State
Board of Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the administration
or operation of the ordinance codified in this article.

(3)	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sections referring to the
exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the result of the substitution
would be to:

A Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or
other consumption of tangible personal property which would not otherwise be exempt
from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other consumption remain subject to tax by
the state under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code,
or

B.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other consumption of
tangible personal property which would not be subject to tax by the state under the said
provision of that code;

(4)	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711, 6715, 6737,
6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

b) The word "City" shall be substituted for the word "State" in the phrase "retailer
engaged in business in this State" in Section 6203 and in the definition of that
phrase in Section 6203.

Sec. 8-74. - Permit not required.

If a seller's permit has been issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, an additional transactor’s permit shall not be required by this article.

Sec. 8-75. - Exemptions and exclusions.

(a)	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the use tax the amount
of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or by any city, city and county,
or county pursuant to the Bradley-Bums Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the
amount of any state-administered transactions or use tax.

(b)	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax the gross
receipts from:

(1)	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum products, to operators
of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the county in which the sale is
made and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of
persons or property under the authority of the laws of this state, the United States, or
any foreign government;

(2)	Sales of property to be used outside the city which is shipped to a point outside the city,
pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by the retailer or his agent, or
by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at such point. For the
purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point outside the city shall be satisfied:

(A)	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject to registration
pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the
Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public
Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels registered under Chapter 2 of Division
3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration to an out-
of-city address and by a declaration under penalty of peijury, signed by the buyer,
stating that such address is, in fact, his or her principal place of residence, and

(B)	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of business out-of-
city and declaration under penalty of petjury, signed by the buyer, that the vehicle
will be operated from that address;

(3)	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to furnish the property
for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of the
ordinance codified in this article;

(4)	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such property, for
any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the property for an amount
fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of the ordinance codified in this article;

(5)	For the purposes of subsections (b)(3) and (b)(4) of this section, the sale or lease of
tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or
lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the
unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such
right is exercised.

(c)	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this article, the storage, use or other
consumption in this city of tangible personal property:

(1)	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a transactions tax under
any state-administered transactions and use tax ordinance;

(2)	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of aircraft and used or
consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as

common carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under a certificate of
public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this state, the United
States, or any foreign government. This exemption is in addition to the exemptions
provided in Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of
California;

(3)	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price pursuant to a
contract entered into prior to the operative date of the ordinance codified in this article;

(4)	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the tangible personal
property arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such property for any
period of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed
by a lease prior to the operative date of the ordinance codified in this article;

(5)	For the purposes of subsections (c)(3) and (c)(4) of this section, storage, use, or other
consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power over, tangible personal
property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any
period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to
terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised;

(6)	Except as provided in subsection (c)(7) of this section, a retailer engaged in business in
the city shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible personal
property, unless the retailer ships or delivers the property into the city or participates
within the city in making the sale of the property, including, but not limited to,
soliciting or receiving the order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of business of
the retailer in the city or through any representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor,
subsidiary, or person in the city under the authority of the retailer;

(7)	"A retailer engaged in business in the city" shall also include any retailer of any of the
following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with
Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with
Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels registered under
Chapter 2 of Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That
retailer shall be required to collect use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses
the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the city.

(d)	Any person subject to use tax under this article may credit against that tax any transactions
tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district imposing, or retailer liable for, a
transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code with
respect to the sale to the person of the property the storage, use or other consumption of
which is subject to the use tax.

Sec. 8-76. - Amendments to state law.

All amendments subsequent to the effective date of the ordinance codified in this article to
Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and
which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part of this article, provided however, that
no such amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this article.

9

Sec. 8-77. - Enjoining collection forbidden.

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit,
action or proceeding in any court against the state or the city, or against any officer of the
state or the city, to prevent or enjoin the collection under this article, or Part 1.6 of Division
2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be
collected.

Sec. 8-78. - Refunds and credits; suits and legal proceedings.

(a)	Refunds of and credits for any tax paid pursuant to this chapter may be made only as
provided for in Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code.

(b)	Suits and proceedings for the recovery of any amount alleged to have been erroneously or
illegally determined or collected pursuant to this chapter may be maintained in any court
only as provided for in Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code. A judgment shall not be rendered in favor of the plaintiff in any action
brought against the State Board of Equalization to recover any amount paid when the action
is brought by or in the name of an assignee of the person paying the amount or by any
person other than the person who paid the amount.

Sec. 8-79 - Severability.

If any provision of this ordinance or the application thereof to any person
or circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the ordinance and the
application of such provision to other persons or circumstances shall not
be affected thereby.

Sec. 8-80 - Effective Date and Submission to Voters.

This ordinance relates to the levying and collecting of City transactions and uses taxes
and shall take effect immediately. However, no tax imposed by this ordinance shall be
effective unless that tax has been approved by a majority of the voters of the City as
required by Section 2(b) of Article XIIIC of the California Constitution and applicable
law.

Sec. 8-81 - Sunset of Tax and Termination.

The tax imposed by this Chapter shall be imposed for seven years from the
Operative Date of this tax as defined in section 8-66 and, thereafter shall no
longer be imposed. “

SECTION 2. Savings Clause. If any section, subsection, part, clause,
sentence or phrase of this Ordinance or the application thereof is for any
reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional by the decision of any court o
competent jurisdiction, the validity of the remaining portions of this
Ordinance, the application thereof and the tax imposed shall not be affected

10

thereby, but shall remain in full force and effect it being the intention of the
People to adopt each and every section, subsection, part, clause, sentence
or phrase regardless of whether any other section, subsection, part, clause
or phrase or die application there is held to be invalid or unconstitutional.

SECTION 3. The foregoing Ordinance was approved by the following
vote of the People of the City of Colusa on November 8,2016.

YESES:

NOES:

The foregoing Ordinance was adopted by Declaration of the vote at
the November 8, 2016 election by the City Council of the City of Colusa on__, 2016:

AYES:

NOES:

ABSENT:

ABSTAIN:

Attest:

THOMAS REIS CHE, MAYOR

SHELLY KITTLE, City Clerk

11

Exhibit “B"

Notice of Election and Measure to Be Voted On

CITY OF COLUSA NOTICE OF MUNICIPAL ELECTION
AND MEASURE TO BE VOTED ON

NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that a Municipal Election will be held in the City of
Colusa on Tuesday, November 8, 2016, at which there will be submitted to the voters
the following measures:

BALLOT MEASURE #	
Shall an ordinance be adopted authorizing the City of Colusa to increase the sales tax (Transactions and Use Tax) by three-quarters of one percent for general municipal purposes for a period of seven years?	YES  NO

Said Municipal Election has been consolidated with the Statewide General Election to be held in
the City of Colusa on November 8, 2016. The election precincts within the City of Colusa for
said Municipal Election shall be the regular election precincts established for said Statewide
General Election, and the polling places and officers of election within the City of Colusa for
said Municipal Election shall be the same as those selected and designated or to be selected and
designated for said Statewide General Election.

NOTICE IS FURTHER GIVEN pursuant to Article 4, Section 9282 of the Elections
Code of the State of California, the legislative body of the City of Colusa, or any member or
members of the legislative body authorized by the body, or any individual voter who is eligible
to vote on the measure or bona fide association of citizens, or any combination of voters and
associations, may file a written argument, not to exceed 300 words in length, accompanied by the
printed name(s) and signature(s) of the person(s) submitting it, or if submitted on behalf of an
organization, the name of the organization, and the printed name and signature of at least one of
its principal officers, for or against the City measures.

NOTICE IS FURTHER GIVEN that, based upon the time reasonably necessary to
prepare and print the arguments and sample ballots for the election, the City Clerk has fixed
July 28, 2016, during normal office hours, 7:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m., as the date after which no
arguments for or against the City measures may be submitted to the Clerk for printing and
distribution to the voters as provided in Article 4. Arguments shall be submitted to the City
Clerk, accompanied by the printed name(s) and signature(s) of the person(s) submitting it, or if
submitted on behalf of an organization, the name of the organization, and the printed name and
signature of at least one of its principal officers who is the author of the argument, at the Colusa
City Hall, 425 Webster Street, Colusa, California. No more than five signatures may appear on
the argument.

NOTICE IS FURTHER GIVEN that pursuant to Article 4, Section 9285 of the
Elections Code of the State of California, the City Council of the City of Colusa has determined
that rebuttal arguments, not to exceed 250 words in length, as submitted by the authors of the

12

opposing direct arguments, may be filed with the City Clerk by August 8, 2016, during normal
office hours, 7:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m., accompanied by the printed names(s) and signature(s) of the
person(s) submitting it, or if submitted on behalf of an organization, the name of the
organization, and the printed name and signature of at least one of its principal officers. No more
than five signatures may appear on the rebuttal.

NOTICE IS FURTHER GIVEN that any ordinance, impartial analysis, or direct
argument filed under the authority of the Elections Code will be available for public examination
in the City Cleric’s office from July 29, 2016, to August 8, 2016. Any rebuttal argument filed
under the authority of the Elections Code will be available for public examination in the City
Clerk’s Office from August 8,2016, to August 17,2016.

The polls will be open on Election Day between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m.

Shelly Kittle

Clerk of the City of Colusa
City Elections Official

Dated:________________________

Publish: GC 36933 publication

13