SACRAMENTO CITY COUNCIL PARCEL TAX
_________________MEASURE B__________________

B “Should library services for all City residents in-
cluding children, teens, adults and seniors, be
preserved, including after-school reading pro-
grams, homework assistance, library operating hours,
24/7 online access, programs for seniors, and other
services, by enacting a new $12 per year single-family
residential parcel tax for 12 years, and specified
amounts for other uses, adjusted for inflation, that the
State cannot take, with independent financial audits to
ensure funds are spent only on City of Sacramento
libraries?”

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE B
PREPARED BY SACRAMENTO CITY ATTORNEY

Measure B has been placed on the ballot by the Sacramento
City Council. Approval of Measure B would impose a parcel
tax for core library services provided within the City of Sacra-
mento, as set forth in City Ordinance 2014-004. Disapproval
of Measure B would mean the parcel tax would not be im-
posed.

The City Council enacted Ordinance 2014-004 to impose an
annual parcel tax for library services within the City of Sacra-
mento for 12 years, beginning in fiscal year 2014-2015. After
fiscal year 2025-2026, the parcel tax authorized by this
measure would no longer be imposed.

The tax proposed in Measure B is in addition to the parcel tax
approved by the voters in 2004 (Measure X). Measure B
does not affect the Measure X parcel tax, which is codified in
Chapter 3.148 of the Sacramento City Code.

The Measure B ordinance provides that the tax is imposed to
assist in funding "core library services" within the City of
Sacramento. The ordinance further provides that "core li-
brary services include, without limitation, open hours at city
libraries, library staff, acquisition of library materials, and ac-
cess to technology."

The Measure B parcel tax would be collected from the own-
ers of all non-exempt properties within the City of Sacra-
mento. The amount of the tax for each land use type is set
forth in the full text of the measure. For example, each de-
veloped single-family residential parcel would be taxed
$12.00 for the first year (2014-2015). The tax for each land
use type would be increased annually to reflect any increase
in the consumer prices index, not to exceed three percent
(3%) per year.

The city's current general fund contribution to library serv-
ices would not be replaced by the parcel tax proceeds. With
one exception, the measure prohibits the city from collecting
the tax in any year during which the city's general fund con-
tribution to the Sacramento Public Library Authority falls
below $7,635,500. The exception permits the tax to be col-
lected if the reduction in general fund contribution to the
Sacramento Public Library Authority is in the same propor-
tion to the reduction in the city's net general fund budget (ex-
cluding police and fire budgets, and expenditures offset by
fees and other non-tax revenues).

The ordinance will take effect only if two-thirds of the voters
voting on Measure B approve it. A "yes" vote is in favor of

approving the ordinance establishing the parcel tax. A "no"
vote is against approving the ordinance establishing the par-
cel tax.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE B

AN ORDINANCE ADDING CHAPTER 3.150 OF THE
SACRAMENTO CITY CODE TO IMPOSE A PARCEL TAX
FOR CORE LIBRARY SERVICES ON REAL PROPERTY
WITHIN THE CITY OF SACRAMENTO

BE IT ENACTED BY THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
SACRAMENTO:

SECTION 1

On November 2, 2004, the voters of the City of Sacramento
approved by a two-thirds vote a parcel tax within the City of
Sacramento for the purpose of funding additional library
services including children’s programs, homework centers,
increased hours, new book funding, and technology in
branch libraries. The amount of the parcel tax was set at
$26.60 per year for single family residences and at specified
amounts for all other properties for 10 years beginning with
the 2007-2008 fiscal year. Rate increases are limited to 3%
annually, and not more than $8.00 total during the life of the
tax for single family residences. The last year of the tax is
2016-2017. The tax for a single-family residence for 2013-
2014 is $29.92.

In order to stabilize library funding and avoid deep service
level cuts, it is the purpose of this ordinance to impose an
additional parcel tax of $12.00 per year for single family res-
idential, and specified amounts for other uses, subject to an
annual adjustment, for 12 years beginning in fiscal year
2014-2015. This ordinance shall take effect only upon ap-
proval by two-thirds of the voters of the City of Sacramento.

This ordinance supersedes the ordinance adopted by the
City Council on January 14, 2014 titled “Adding Chapter
3.150 of the Sacramento City Code to Impose a Parcel Tax
for Core Library Services on Real Property within the City of
Sacramento.”

SECTION 2

Chapter 3.150 is added to the Sacramento City Code to read
as follows:

Chapter 3.150 PARCEL TAX FOR CORE LIBRARY
SERVICES

3.150.010	Parcel tax imposed.

A parcel tax for library services is imposed upon every par-
cel of real property in the city to assist in funding the core
library services provided in the city. Core library services
include, without limitation, open hours at city libraries, li-
brary staff, acquisition of library materials, and access to
technology.

3.150.020	Tax rates.

The tax rates for fiscal year 2014-2015 shall be:

Residential		
Single family		$12.00
Multi-family	a.	$9.00 per unit, units 1-4
	b.	$6.00 per unit, units 5-15
	c.	$3.00 per unit, units over 15
(Add a. plus b. plus c. for total multi-family tax per parcel)		
Condominiums		$9.00 per condominium
Mobile Homes		$6.00 per mobile home
Non-  Residential		
Institutional		$54.00 per acre (first 5 acres)
		$13.50 per acre (acres over 5)
Professional		$36.00 per acre (first 5 acres)
		$9.00 per acre (acres over 5)
Commercial/ Industrial and Recreational		$18.00 per acre (first 5 acres)
		$4.50 per acre (acres over 5)
Vacant		
Misc. vacant, parking lots, airports, cemeteries and mortuaries		$4.50 per acre (maximum taxed area per parcel: 5 acres)
Exempt Uses		
Common area, Agriculture, Utilities, Public Agencies		$0.00

3.150.030	Annual adjustment of tax rates.

The tax rates for fiscal year 2014-2015 set forth in section

3.150.020	shall be increased annually in proportion to the
increase in the Consumer Price Index (CPI), San Francisco
Area, all items, most recently available prior to the date of
increase, provided, however, that this increase shall not ex-
ceed three percent in any year.

3.150.040	Collection by the county.

The tax shall be collected on behalf of the city by the county
auditor. The city clerk shall file with the county auditor a
certified copy of a tax roll with a request that the taxes be
posted to the county roll for general property taxes. This fil-
ing shall occur on or before August 1 st of the fiscal year in
which the taxes are to be collected. The tax shall be col-
lected at the same time and in the same manner and shall

be subject to the same late charges and penalties for delin-
quency as general property taxes and all laws providing for
the collection and enforcement of such property taxes shall
apply to the collection and enforcement of the tax. After de-
duction of the collection charges of the county auditor, the
net amount of the taxes collected shall be remitted to the
city for transfer to the Sacramento Public Library Authority
to be used to provide core library services within the city of
Sacramento.

3.150.050	Parcel tax not to replace general fund
contribution.

The city’s current general fund contribution to library serv-
ices may not be replaced by the parcel tax. If the city gen-
eral fund contribution to the Sacramento Public Library
Authority is reduced below seven million six hundred thirty-
five thousand six hundred dollars ($7,635,600.00), the par-
cel tax shall not be levied; provided, however, that if the
reduction to the city general fund contribution is no more
than the same proportion of reduction that is imposed on
the city’s net general fund budget for non-safety depart-
ments (which are all operating departments except police
and fire) in any year during the twelve-year period of the
tax, then the tax nonetheless may be levied.

(The city’s net general fund budget for non-safety depart-
ments is the total general fund contribution to their operat-
ing budgets excluding expenditures that are offset by fees
or other non-tax revenues.) Following any reduction from
the minimum level of seven million six hundred thirty-five
thousand six hundred dollars ($7,635,600.00) and for the
parcel tax to be levied in any subsequent year, the library
must receive increases in its city general fund contribution
proportional to the increases in the non-safety departments’
net general fund budgets up to at least the minimum level
of seven million six hundred thirty-five thousand six hun-
dred dollars ($7,635,600.00).

3.150.060	Twelve-year term.

The tax shall be imposed beginning with the 2014-2015 fis-
cal year for a period of 12 years, ending with fiscal year
2025-2026.

3.150.070 Low-income rebate.

The city manager shall establish a program to rebate any
tax imposed by this chapter that is paid with respect to res-
idential property that is the principal residence of the owner,
if the gross household income is 80 percent or less of the
Sacramento County area median income as published an-
nually by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment Department.

SECTION 3

This ordinance shall take effect only upon approval by two-
thirds of the voters of the City of Sacramento voting in an
election held on or before June 3, 2014.

Adopted by the City of Sacramento City Council on February
4, 2014 by the following vote:

Ayes: Members Ashby, Cohn, Fong, Hansen, Pannell,
Schenirer, and Warren
Noes: None
Abstain: None

Absent: Member McCarty and Mayor Johnson
Attest:

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE B

Be there for your libraries! Vote yes on Measure B to pre-
serve our library services and improve them for all Sacra-
mento city residents. Measure B augments the existing city
parcel tax by just one dollar per month and requires inde-
pendent yearly audits to protect tax payers.

Measure B is needed to keep up with three new libraries,
greater demand for on-line services and the need to stay
open evenings and weekends when people can actually use
our libraries. Measure B requires that all funds be spent ex-
clusively for local library services within the City of Sacra-
mento. Just one dollar per month will maintain our vital
library services for all city residents.

Vote yes to maintain the library's after-school homework and
reading programs for our school children and story time for
preschoolers. Vote yes to protect library operating hours and
24/7 online access to library resources. Vote yes to preserve
library services for seniors and families who are trying to im-
prove their lives. Vote yes to give people who don't have
computers at home access to the internet. Vote yes to con-
tinue to make quality library materials, programs, and serv-
ices available at all libraries.

City of Sacramento residents have always cared about their
libraries. Our 12 city libraries improve the quality of life in our
neighborhoods. They offer a safe place for children to learn
and study, and they provide information and enrichment to
people of all ages. To maintain our hours of operation, on-
line access, quality books and library materials, children's
programs and more, vote yes on Measure B. For more in-
formation visit www.bethereforlibraries.org.

s/Angelique Ashby, Mayor Pro Tern, City of Sacramento

s/Dan O’Donnell, PTA President, Genevive Didion K-8, SCUSD

s/Brian Rice, President, Firefighters Local 522

s/Maureen Price, CEO, Boys & Girls Club of Greater Sacramento

s/Jeffrey L. Rubin, President, Friends of the Sacramento Public
Library

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE B WAS FILED