The question for Measure M:

"Vacaville Essential Services Protection
Measure. To protect essential city services such as
police programs to fight domestic violence, child/elder
abuse, gang activity and neighborhood crime;
fire/paramedic services for quick emergency
response times; street lighting for safety; and other
city services, shall City of Vacaville Ordinance No.
1899 be approved to renew a sales/use tax at a 3/4-
cent rate for 20 years, providing approximately
$14,700,000 per year in locally controlled funding that
stays in Vacaville?"

Yes

No

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE M

Background

During the recent recession, the City of Vacaville experienced a decline in sales and property tax
revenues. As a result, the City reduced its work force by 20%, decreased employee salaries and
benefits, and curtailed expenditures on equipment, supplies, and services provided to persons
living and working in Vacaville. Following these cutbacks, the City projected that its general fund
would have deficits of $1.5 million in fiscal year 2013/2014 and $2.7 million in fiscal year
2014/2015 and in future years. In response, the Vacaville City Council placed a measure on the
November 2012 ballot for a quarter-cent sales and use tax for 5 years, which was approved by
70% of the voters. The tax expires on March 31, 2018.

The Measure

The Vacaville City Council has placed this Measure on the ballot, asking voters to renew and
modify the current sales and use tax, effective April 1, 2018. The Measure would continue the
quarter-cent tax and increase it by an additional half-cent from 7.875% to 8.375% for 20 years.

The tax is levied on the sale or use of tangible products purchased by residents and visitors to the
City, such as clothing, household products, and other goods but not on things such as groceries
and prescription drugs.

Sales and use tax rates differ throughout California, ranging from 7.5% to 10%. As noted, the
current rate in Vacaville is 7.875%. The City receives 1.25% of the revenue generated by the tax
(1% from the Bradley-Burns Act and 0.25% from Measure M), with the remainder going to the
State (6.25%), Solano County (0.25%), and the Solano County Public Library (0.125%). This
Measure would increase the City’s share from 1.00% to 1.75%, which is a local tax that may not be
taken or used by other agencies, such as the state and federal governments. Should that happen,
the Measure provides that the tax will be reduced or not collected in order to offset such taking or
use, thereby ensuring that the revenue remains in Vacaville to fund City services and facilities.

Use of Proceeds

The Measure is a general tax. Its revenue is used for general municipal purposes such as police
and fire protection, gang suppression, ambulance service, street repair, park maintenance,
recreation programs, public parks, sports fields, roadway improvements, the McBride Senior
Center, the Walter V. Graham Aquatics Center, the Ulatis Community Center, the Vacaville
Performing Arts Theater, and other services and facilities for Vacaville residents.

Fiscal Impact

The Measure continues the current tax and adds an additional half-cent for 20 years in order to
maintain City services and facilities. Without the tax, the City forecasts its general fund will be
depleted by 2019 thereby requiring further cost cutting and reductions in City services and
programs.

A “yes” vote is a vote to continue the current tax and to add an additional half-cent for 20 years. A
“no” vote is a vote not to continue the current tax and add an additional half-cent. This Measure
requires a simple majority of “yes” votes to take effect.

Melinda C. H. Stewart, City Attorney

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure M. If you desire a copy of the Measure,
please call the City Clerk’s Office at 707-449-5100 and a copy will be mailed to you at no cost.

BALLOT ARGUMENT AGAINST VACAVILLE SALES TAX INCREASE

MEASURE M

NO on Measure^ . It breaks promises made in 2012 when Vacaville asked voters to approve
a “temporary” tax increase.

The tax was needed, they said, to fill a temporary hole in Vacaville’s budget caused by the
Recession. They said it would last ONLY FIVE YEARS.

We trusted them and passed the tax. Now they want to break that promise, TRIPLE the tax,
and extend it 20 YEARS!

The Recession ended. Property values are higher than ever. Hundreds of new homes were
added since 2012. Another 3,800 are underway. Property tax revenue is pouring in!

Retail sales are booming. The Outlets are packed. Nut Tree Plaza added 17 new stores. So
sales tax revenue is pouring in too!

Why does the City want even more money? Because of another broken promise. During the
Recession, taxpayers begged the City Council to bring city pensions under control by switching
from CalPERS to something else. The City Council said they’d consider it.

Pensions are a major part of Vacaville’s budget. CalPERS has underperformed and lost
money for years, heaping enormous annual costs on participating cities like Vacaville.

Now the temporary tax is expiring and, although the State forced some reforms, Vacaville still
clings to CalPERS guaranteed pensions.

CalPERS pensions are based on final salary. Vacaville has over 100 employees whose total
compensation exceeds $200,000/year ($1 million every 5 years EACH)!

Vacaville experienced a financial downturn and asked voters to bail them out. We did, based
on their promise that it would last ONLY FIVE YEARS. They should have learned from that
experience and taken aggressive steps to prevent it from happening again. They didn’t.

Whose budget should be cut to pay for their irresponsibility? Vacaville’s seniors and working
families? No, the City should cut its budget. Vote NO on Measure M .

CM	CO

sj/TijnottjfeA. piffle, Director of Legal Affairs, Howard Jarvis Taxpayers Association

j M jg

sLGeorge Guggi Jr. President, Solano County Taxpayers Association

LL

oo

CD

ZD

<ac

wo

CO

Otr

§1 *

022 £

UJ 0.
0C O

Argument in favor of Measure M

Vote YES on M to MAINTAIN SAFE NEIGHBORHOODS AND OUTSTANDING QUALITY OF
LIFE IN VACAVILLE.

In 2012, following several consecutive years of state funding takeaways and millions in
cuts to city services and staff, over 70% of Vacaville voters approved Measure M, a mod-
est increase to our local sales tax rate.

For the past four years, Measure M has provided locally-controlled funding to preserve
essential services that protect our safety and quality of life in Vacaville.

THIS LOCAL FUNDING IS SET TO EXPIRE and Vacaville will again face multi-million dollar
budget deficits affecting police and fire emergency response times, street repair and
other essential services that keep Vacaville a safe and livable community.

Voting YES on M will renew and enhance locally-controlled funding in Vacaville to:

□	Provide sufficient on-duty firefighters and paramedics to protect rapid 9-1-1
emergency response times

□	Keep local youth away from crime, gangs and drugs

□	Provide police programs to curb domestic violence, child abuse and elder abuse

□	Ensure Police enforcement of probation violations to keep dangerous criminals
off our streets

□	Address delayed pothole repair and street maintenance

□	Repair or replace aging fire trucks, firefighting equipment, police cars and other
essential vehicles

□	Fix Vacaville's aging community centers, fire stations, parks and athletic facilities

□	Protect Vacaville's reserve funds for emergencies and provide for further
economic recovery

Measure M Protects Vacaville Taxpayers by:

□	Keeping Vacaville's sales tax rate lower than in neighboring communities

□	Ensuring visitors who shop in Vacaville and use our roads and services pay their
share

□	Adding just 50C to a $100 purchase with purchases of food and
medicine exempted

□	Requiring annual audits to ensure funds are spent properly

□	Keeping our dollars in Vacaville - Measure M funds cannot be taken by the State

Join Vacaville's most respected leaders and vote YES on M!

www.YesonMforVacaville.org

Is/ Len Augustine
Is/ Robert A. Powell
Is/ Kathleen Ramos
Is/ S. Scott Reynolds
Is/ Richard Rico

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF VACAVILLE MEASURE M

The Measure M proponents imply they’re just extending an existing tax, but they’re
actually TRIPLING it! And it’s a tax they PROMISED would last ONLY FIVE YEARS.

Proponents say “Measure M protects Vacaville taxpayers by keeping Vacaville’s sales
tax rate lowerHow does TRIPLING AND EXTENDING what was promised to be a
temporary tax “protect” taxpayers? That’s FALSE ADVERTISING!

They say new taxes are needed to provide police, firefighters, and street maintenance.
But those essential services should be first priority for Vacaville’s existing $170
MILLION budget! If maintaining essential services requires a tax increase, then where
is the $170 MILLION going?

There’s also no guarantee the new tax will fund essential services. Mayor Augustine is
trustworthy, but he’s 79. THIS TAX LASTS 20 YEARS! There’s no guarantee how
tomorrow’s officials might spend this money.

One thing’s for sure. Vacaville wouldn’t need a tax increase if it brought city salaries
and pensions under control.

When the combined incomes of an average Vacaville household total only $75,000, why
must hundreds of city employees receive individual salaries over $100,000?

In this year’s Budget Summary, the #1 listed impact is “continuing increases in
healthcare and retiree costs.” Not fighting crime, extinguishing fires, or repairing
streets.

The budget is crippled by heavy healthcare and pension debts for former employees
who no longer provide public service. And it’s because Vacaville won’t follow the
example of other cities that switched from CalPERS to cheaper retirement plans.

Say NO to wasteful spending. Say NO to Measure M.

s/ Howard Jarvis Taxpayers Association, Timothy A. Bittle, Director of Legal Affairs,
s/ Solano County Taxpayers Association, George Guynn Jr. President

REBUTTAL TO THE ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE M

The opponents to Measure M don't speak for Vacaville residents and rely on half-truths and
misguided information to confuse voters.

Vacaville has AGGRESSIVELY cut costs and employee compensation

Staffing levels, benefit and pension cost sharing have significantly cut City employee ex-
penses, saving the City millions of dollars

Vacaville has proactively addressed pension reforms—employees pay the maximum
share of their pension costs allowable

Performance measures indicate Vacaville is providing quality services with limited re-
sources

Much of the cost will be PAID BY PEOPLE WHO SHOP IN VACAVILLE

Measure M ensures that all who shop in Vacaville and use our roads and services pay
their share

Essential purchases like food and medicine are exempted, eliminating a burden on fixed
income residents

Measure M adds just 50 cents to a $100 purchase

Measure M STABILIZES OUR FINANCES AND PROTECTS VITAL SERVICES

Protects the City reserve fund for future downturns in the economy

Allows for adequate staffing of on-duty firefighters and paramedics which provide rapid
9-1-1 response times

Funds programs to fight gang activity and keep at-risk youth away from crime
and drugs

Funds the Police Department's anti-child abuse and elder abuse programs, the
Family Resource Center and Police Activities League

Bv law. Measure M FUNDS MUST STAY LOCAL

Funds from Measure M cannot be taken by the State or Washington, D.C.

Requires that Measure M is subject to annual audits
To Keep Vacaville Safe and Protect Quality of Life - Vote YES on M.

www.YesonMforVacaville.org

s/ Carol Landry, Former Vacaville Chamber of Commerce Chair
s/ Earl Heal, Colonel USAF (retired)

s/Thomas A. Ferrara, Solano County Sheriff/Vacaville Resident

s/ Steve Wilkins, Public Safety Officer (retired)/Chair 2012 Yes on Measure M Committee
s/ Richard Word, Co-Chair Yes on M Committee