Voter Information Guide

and
Sample Ballot

Presidential General Election
Tuesday, November 8,2016

Elections Office of the Registrar of Voters
777 E. Rialto Avenue, San Bernardino, CA 92415
www.SBCountyElections.com

Gula de informacion el votante
en espanol en el interior

Shall an ordinance be adopted authorizing the
Town of Apple Valley to finance the acquisition
of the Liberty Utilities water system and to
acquire, improve, or finance other projects, by
issuing public debt in excess of $5,000,000, if
the Town obtains voter approval or the Town
Council holds a public hearing, certifies that the
revenues from the project will cover debt
payments, prohibits the use of taxpayer
revenues to repay the debt, and conducts an
annual independent audit?

YES ^ ^
NO ^ ^

City of Victorville Measure
Measure X

REMOVE RESTRICTIONS ON METHOD OF
ELECTING VICTORVILLE CITY COUNCIL
MEMBERS. Shall Article III of the Victorville
City Charter, Method of Election, be amended
to: (1) delete Charter Section 300’s requirement
that the City elect its council members "at
large"; and (2) remove Charter Section 301 ’s
prohibition on electing council members either
"by" districts or "from" districts?

	YES ^ ^
	NO ^ ^
Town of Yucca Valley Measures	
Measure Y	

To provide funding, that cannot be taken by the
State, to maintain Yucca Valley services and
help make neighborhoods safer, including:
violent crime/burglary/home invasion
prevention; youth crime prevention; anti-gang/
anti-drug programs; adding police officers/
neighborhood patrols; fixing potholes/
maintaining Town streets; senior/youth
programs; and other general Town services;
shall Yucca Valley enact a 0.5% sales tax, for
10 years, providing approximately $1,500,000
annually, with annual audits, citizens’ oversight,
and all funds spent in Yucca Valley?

YES ^ ^
NO 4" H

To reduce the cost to taxpayers for funding the
sewer system up-to 30% per year; ensure a
safe, clean, reliable water supply; and, improve
water conservation; shall Yucca Valley enact a
0.5% sales tax, for 10 years, providing
approximately $1,500,000 annually, that cannot
be taken by the State, with annual audits,
citizens’ oversight, and all funds required by
law to be spent locally to equitably reduce the
costs of the sewer system for all residents?

YES ^ ^
NO ^ ^

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE Z

This Impartial Analysis of Measure Z has been prepared by the Town
Attorney pursuant to Section 9280 of the California Elections Code.

The Town Council has prepared and is submitting Measure Z to voters of the Town of
Yucca Valley to add a new Chapter 3.28 to the Town's Municipal Code, titled "Sewer
Implementation and Assessment Assistance and Transactions and Use Tax." If
approved at the general election on November 8, 2016, Measure Z will impose a 'A cent
per dollar (0.5%) special transaction and use tax for sewer purposes lasting for 10 years.
Specifically, Measure Z places a tax of 0.5% upon retailers' gross receipts from the retail
sale of most tangible personal property sold within the Town for 10 years, and an excise
tax upon the storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property purchased
from any retailer for storage, use or other consumption within the Town at a rate of 0.5%
for 10 years.

Measure Z is a special tax, meaning all proceeds raised by the tax are dedicated to a
specific purpose. Measure Z's proceeds would be dedicated to Town-wide sewer
implementation, with the specific purpose of lowering sewer project assessments levied
on Town citizens through Hi-Desert Water District's Assessment District 2014-1 and
subsequent assessment districts formed or annexed in relation thereto. It is estimated
that the special tax could reduce Assessment District rates by up-to 30% annually.

It is estimated that Measure Z could generate upwards of $1,500,000 annually. To
assure that Measure Z funds are properly applied to sewer assessments, the Measure
includes provisions for an independent taxpayers' oversight committee, mandatory
financial audits and yearly public reports.

As a sales tax, Measure Z will apply to everyone who purchases retail goods within the
Town of Yucca Valley. Visitors and tourists who visit Yucca Valley will also bear part of
the tax burden imposed by their local activities and will thus contribute to the Town's
subsidy of sewer costs.

The tax would be administered by the California Board of Equalization under contract
with the Town of Yucca Valley.

A "YES" vote is a vote to approve a 0.5% retail transactions and use special tax for
sewer purposes. A "NO" vote is a vote against a 0.5% retail transactions and use special
tax for sewer purposes. The special tax would take effect only if it receives a two-thirds
(2/3) vote of "YES" at the November 8, 2016 municipal election. Measure Z, if voter
approved, will not be imposed before March 1,2017.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure Z prepared by the Town
Attorney. If you desire a copy of the ordinance or Measure, please call the
elections official (Town Clerk) at (760) 369-7209, x 226, and a copy will be mailed
at no cost to you.

Dated: August 17, 2016

s/ Lona N. Laymon
Yucca Valley Town Attorney

PR-9026-IA-1

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE Z

This Argument in Favor of Measure Z was submitted pursuant to Section
9282 of the California Elections Code. It is the opinion of the author (s), and
has been printed exactly as submitted,.

Vote YES on Z = Lower Sewer Cost!

Yes on Z will lower the cost of our local sewer for everyone!

By law, Measure Z requires, aM funds be spent locally with the sole purpose of lowering
the sewer assessment rates for Phase 1,2 and 3 - FUNDS CANNOT BE TAKEN OR
REDIRECTED FOR ANY OTHER USES!

All will benefit including our citizens who are renters, they will enjoy savings of lower
pass-through costs from landlords.

Visitors to our Town will help pay for the cost of the sewer. A study conducted by the
Town of Yucca Valley showed that 50% of all sales tax revenue comes from visitors to
our community.

•	YES on Z reduces the cost of the sewer assessments by up to 30% per year,
saving taxpayers money

•	YES on Z reduces the cost of the sewer system for Phase 1, 2 and 3, saving
taxpayers money

•	YES on Z saves money for community members who rent, by reducing sewer
pass-through cost from landlords

•	YES on Z will maintain a safe, clean, reliable water supply to support good
health

•	YES on Z provides a 50% matching grant with 50% of all sales tax revenue
coming from visitors to our community

Measure Y, also on your ballot, is a separate measure to provide needed funding for
programs such as local public safety (Police Services) which will make our
neighborhoods safer.

Yes on Y will provide improved streets and public infrastructure.

YES on Z and Y includes TOUGH ACCOUNTABILITY and TAXPAYER
SAFEGUARDS including independent annual audits and citizen's oversight committee
to ensure all funds are spent properly with transparency and accountability.

For facts visit: www.vucca-vallev.org

Join community leaders, business owners, and Citizens for Lower Sewer Cost
Committee in voting Yes on Z and Y.

s/ Lori Herbel, Chair "Citizens for Lower Sewer Cost Committee"

s/ Robert (Bob) Leone, Mayor of Yucca Valley

s/ Sabrina Peukert, Realtor

s/ Sarann Graham, Resident

s/ Bob Stadum, Resident and small business owner

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE Z

No Argument Against Measure Z was filed,.