From Ballotpedia

Report Advertisement

Fortuna, California, Sales Tax, Measure E
(November 2016)

Ballot question

The following question appeared on the ballot:^

To protect and maintain essential City services, including increasing and restoring
police officers and programs, repairing aging/deteriorating streets and potholes, parks
maintenance, and programs for youth and seniors, shall the City of Fortuna establish a
3/40 sales tax, sun setting in 8 years providing approximately $1,200,000 annually,
requiring independent annual financial audits and a Community Oversight Committee,
with all funds remaining in Fortuna?^

Impartial analysis

The following impartial analysis of the measure was prepared by the office of the Fortuna City

Attorney:

The City Council placed Measure E on the ballot to ask the City’s voters to approve a
three-quarter of one percent sales tax. The proposed tax would add % of a cent to the
price of an item that costs a dollar. A sales tax of % of a cent is estimated to provide
approximately $1,200,000 annually for police and essential City services.

Because Measure E would not limit the use of tax revenue, it is a “general tax,” not a
“special tax” which would restrict the funds to a specific purpose. Therefore, the City
may use revenue from this tax for any legitimate governmental purpose to support the
full range of City services. At the time that the City Council called for an election on
Measure E, it also found that the revenue from the measure would provide a source of
funding to protect and maintain essential City services, including increasing and
restoring police officers and programs, repairing aging and deteriorating streets and
drainage facilities, repairing potholes, parks facilities and equipment maintenance, and
programs for youth and seniors.

Measure E requires the formation of an independent community oversight committee to
review the expenditure of the revenue from the tax. The committee would consist of
five members appointed by the Mayor and approved by the City Council. Separately,
the City’s independent auditors would annually prepare a separate accounting of the

revenue received from the tax and the expenditures of revenue to be included in the
City’s annual audited financial statements.

This tax will automatically sunset in eight years. In addition, the measure would
authorize the City Council, by a four-fifths vote, to terminate the tax at any time.

Technically, the proposed measure is a “transactions and use tax.” A transactions and
use tax is levied on the same purchases as the existing sales tax, with some minor
exceptions. Retailers and other merchants collect the tax at the time of sale and remit
the funds to the State Board of Equalization, which administers the tax. The State
Board of Equalization then transmits the funds collected to the City.

Measure E would authorize a % of a cent transactions and use tax, increasing the total
sales tax rate in Fortuna to 8.75%. Currently the total “sales tax” rate in Fortuna is 8%
and the City’s share is only 3/4 of a percent of that 8%.

A “Yes” vote is a vote to approve a % of a cent sales tax increase for 8 years with
annual review by independent auditors and a community oversight committee. A “No”
vote is a vote against the tax. Measure E would be approved if it received a simple
majority of “Yes” votes.

If you desire a copy of the ordinance or measure, please call the City Clerk’s office at
707-725-1411 and a copy will be mailed to you at no cost^

—Fortuna City Attorney111