MEASURE H

DAVIS JOINT UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT	
“To provide outstanding academics in math, science, reading, writing, instructional technology and programs in athletics, arts and music; provide high quality teachers; limit class sizes; and support student health and safety; shall the Davis Joint Unified School District replace its expiring parcel taxes with a single eight-year parcel tax of $620/ year, raising approximately $9.5 million/ year, adjusted for inflation; with senior and disability exemptions; with citizens oversight; for the exclusive use of Davis schools?"	YES
	NO

DAVIS JOINT UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY YOLO COUNTY COUNSEL
MEASURE H

Measure H, a Davis Joint Unified School District
("District") special parcel tax measure, seeks voter
approval to authorize the District to levy an annual
special parcel tax in the amount of $620 per year on each
parcel of taxable real property for a period of eight years,
beginning 2017-18 tax year. The District’s voters previously
authorized Measures C and E which will expire at the end
of the 2016-17 tax year. If approved, this measure will
replace Measures C and E. The special parcel tax shall
be adjusted annually commencing with the 2018-19 tax
year for inflation in the manner set out in the measure.

A school district has the authority to levy special
taxes upon approval by two-thirds of the votes cast on
the special tax proposal. (See Cal. Const. Art. XIII A, § 4;
Art. XIII C, §2; Cal. Gov’t Code §§ 50075-50077, 50079,
& 53722.) If two-thirds of the qualified electors voting on
this measure vote for approval, a special parcel tax will
be imposed annually for eight years at the rate described
above. The tax will be collected by the County Tax
Collectors of the Counties of Yolo and Solano at the same
time and in the same manner as ad valorem property taxes
are collected.

Upon application to the District, an exemption from
tax assessment may be granted to any owner of a parcel
who occupies the parcel as a principal residence for
each tax year who is: aged 65 years and over; receiving
Supplement Security Income for a disability, regardless
of age; or receiving Social Security Disability Insurance

benefits, regardless of age, with a yearly income below a
certain amount. Applications for such exemptions must
be made and delivered to the District in accordance with
the process established by the Davis Joint Unified School
District Governing Board ("Board"), or its designee.

If two-thirds of the qualified electors voting on this
measure vote for approval, the allocation of the funding
revenue will be used for the specific purposes set forth in
the full text of the measure printed in this sample ballot.
These purposes include, but are not limited to, providing
outstanding academics in math, science, reading, writing,
instructional technology and programs in athletics, arts
and music; providing high quality teachers; limiting class
sizes; and supporting student health and safety. Proceeds
may not be used for any non-specified purposes. The
measure further provides that the District’s Board shall
receive an annual written report detailing the funds
collected and expended and the status of any project.
The District will appoint a citizens’ oversight committee
to provide oversight of the revenue expenditures.

If two-thirds of the qualified electors voting on this
measure do not vote for approval, the measure will fail,
and the District will not be authorized to levy the special
tax.

This measure is placed on the ballot by the governing
board of the District.

Dated: July 21,2016.

PHILIP J. POGLEDICH, COUNTY COUNSEL

By HOPE P. WELTON, SENIOR DEPUTY

The above statement is an impartial analysis of
Measure H. if you desire a copy of the Measure, please
call the Yolo County Elections at (530) 666-8133 or
(800) 649-9943, or call the Solano County Registrar of
Voters at (707) 784-6675 or (888) 933-8683 and a copy
will be mailed at no cost to you. The full text of the
Measure may also be viewed online at: http://www.
yoloelections.org/voting/sample-ballots.

Hill

DAVIS JOINT UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE H

The Davis community has supported local schools
with parcel taxes since 1984. As state funding levels
decreased, Davis residents consistently stepped up to
make sure that important programs are preserved for
Davis students.

Measure H renews two expiring taxes that Davis parcel
owners already are paving with a slight increase to
preserve current funding levels for key school programs.
The funding in Measure H is about $52 per parcel, per
month. Measure H also continues the exemption for
seniors.

Measure H supports class size reduction, retains 100
teaching and staff positions, and maintains outstanding
academic programs in the core areas of math, science,
reading, and writing. Measure H provides funds to support
struggling students, especially in math and reading. It
also funds innovative science, art and music programs,
as well as athletics, and keeps our K-12 school libraries
open.

A few years ago, the state adopted a new funding
formula for schools. Each school district receives a base
grant, and schools with larger populations of high-need
students receive more supplemental funds. Under the
new formula, Davis schools will receive lower funding
than other districts.

In this new era, without the parcel tax. Davis is a below-
averaae-funded school district. Measure H allows our
district to protect quality educational programs and to
have a true say in how our dollars are spent.

Measure H makes sense, whether you have children who
benefit directly from Davis schools, own a home that has
increased in value because great schools drive higher
home values, or you believe that investing in our children
is the right thing to do.

Vote Yes on Measure H for continued support for excellent
schools in Davis.

/s/ Sally Plicka, retired educator/principal

/s/ Martha Beetley, retired reading specialist teacher

/s/ Joe DiNunzio, elementary school parent

/s/ Kevin Williams, high school teacher

/s/ J.D. Denton, Davis business owner

DAVIS JOINT UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT

REBUTTAL TO THE ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
MEASURE H

The primary argument in favor of Measure H is that
it represents an amount we “already are paying with a
slight increase ...”. The proponents fail to mention that
most of that amount was adopted in response to the
“2008 - 2012 California Budget Crisis", an event that has
its own Wikipedia page.

Thus, a series of new Parcel Taxes were adopted in
addition to the pre-existing Parcel Tax (Measure Q): In
2008, Measure “W"; in 2011 Measure “A”; and in 2012
both Measure “C”, which continued Measures “W” and
“Q", and Measure “E", which continued Measure “A”.

Ballot arguments for these measures asserted the need
“to make up the shortage of state funding”, and that "there
have been significant cutbacks in school administration”
[Measure W], that it was "an emergency, short-term,
local response to the latest round of state funding
cuts” coupled with the elimination of “administrative
positions” [Measure A], “at a time when state funding
... has been reduced” [Measure C], with the promise
that “Administrative positions have been abolished and
salaries reduced” by the School Board [Measure E].

But since the end of the State Budget Crisis, the
School Board has awarded retroactive pay raises to the
Administrators in the District Office, and brought back
the administrative positions that had been “abolished”,
including a new “Public Information Officer”. Moreover,
the School District budget includes a “reserve” fund
twice the amount required by statute.

VOTE NO ON BROKEN PROMISES VOTE NO ON
MEASURE H.

/s/ John A. Hoover, President

Yolo County Taxpayers Association

/s/ Carolyn Pfanner,

Rancher

/s/ Michael T. Nolan,

DHS Parent, Attorney at Law



DAVIS JOINT UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE H

Measure H is seriously flawed. The voters need to send it
back to the School Board for a realistic measure focused
on core instructional values.

1.	Most of Measure H represents a continuation of
taxes adopted as "emergency" measures in response
to a State Budget crisis. Now the State fully funds our
schools with a revised formula. But instead of making
the hard decisions to realign spending to match state
funding, the Board has taken the easy way out to keep
things the same.

2.	Measure H is uncertain because it allows an increase
to reflect the "Consumer Price Index for all Urban
Consumers California’’. This index only measures the
cost of living in two areas: San Francisco-Oakland-San
Jose, and Los Angeles-Anaheim-Riverside.

3.	We can expect such increases because a majority of
the Board is on record as favoring a $750 Parcel Tax, with
one arguing for $960.00. Tied to inflation in Los Angeles
and San Francisco for 8 years, the tax may easily exceed
$1000.00.

4.	Unlike other property taxes, a Parcel Tax may not be
lowered because of a drop in property values or for a
depressed economy.

DAVIS JOINT UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT

REBUTTAL TO THE ARGUMENT AGAINST
MEASURE H

The argument against Measure H has incorrect and
speculative points, the first being that the measure
should focus on “core instructional values” when it does
just that. Since 1984, Davis voters have supported our
schools through a parcel tax because we value core
programs that include music, science, support for
struggling students in reading and math, library research
time and athletics - programs that will receive continued
support through Measure H.

The opponents argue that Measure H primarily benefits
“gifted" students. This statement is false. Library services,
music, art, foreign languages, class-size reduction,
elementary science and music are some examples of
programs accessible to all students.

To see a complete list of the valuable academic and
extra-curricular programs funded by Measure H, visit:
www.diusd.net/parceltax

The opponents also claim that “the state fully funds our
schools.” That is misleading at best. Davis is a below-
averaoe-funded district without the parcel tax. Davis
schools are not funded to even 2007-08 levels, and the
new state funding formula comes with mandatory budget
line items that do not go directly to student programs.

5.	Measure H primarily benefits those deemed “gifted"
or “talented”. The majority in the “middle” get very little.
But because parcel tax spending for the few is protected,
future budget cuts will hit those students who need help
the most.

6.	Measure H is too long. Of the past 11 Parcel Taxes,
only one has been as long as 5 years. All others have
been for four years or less. At 8 years, the School Board is
avoiding the responsibility of effective program oversight.

Measure H is TOO MUCH, it is TOO UNCERTAIN, it is
TOO LONG, and it benefits TOO FEW students.

VOTE NO ON MEASURE H.

/s/ John A. Hoover, President

Yolo County Taxpayers Association

/s/ Carolyn Pfanner,

Rancher

(U /s/ Michael T. Nolan,

Parent / Attorney

The inflation factor is not new to our parcel taxes, has
not been exercised annually, and the opponents’ math is
absolutely wrong.

Measure H will expire in eight years, a term selected
because outreach showed the Davis community over-
whelmingly favors providing steady funding for our
schools.

Vote Yes on Measure H to continue Davis’ long history
of outstanding academics and extra-curricular programs.
Support our schools. Vote Yes on H for all students!

/s/ Mele Echiburu, Davis teacher and parent

/s/ Kim Eichorn, Davis real estate agent and parent

/s/ Lori Duisenberg, Davis community leader and parent

/s/ Betty Patterson, Retired Davis family practice
physician, parent and grandparent

/s/ Jeff Simons, Davis business owner, Watermelon
Music and parent

ilil

DAVIS JOINT UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT

MEASURE H

EXHIBIT B

FULL BALLOT TEXT

To provide outstanding academics in math, science, reading, writing, instructional technology and programs
in athletics, arts and music; provide high quality teachers; limit class sizes; and support student health and safety;
shall the Davis Joint Unified School District replace its expiring parcel taxes with a single eight-year parcel tax of $620/
year, raising approximately $9.5 million/year, adjusted for inflation; with senior and disability exemptions; with citizens
oversight; for the exclusive use of Davis schools?

Purpose

The purpose of the measure is to support the programs and services currently funded by Measures C and E
as follows:

a)	Provide opportunities for all students to reach proficiency by supporting improved instruction in math and
reading;

b)	Provide availability of elementary science instruction programs;

c)	Provide reduced class sizes for elementary grades;

d)	Provide availability of sufficient numbers of classes in secondary core subjects including science, math,
English, history and social sciences;

e)	Provide availability of world language programs;

f)	Provide availability of elementary and secondary school music programs;

g)	Provide availability of advanced placement classes;

h)	Provide availability of elective course offerings such as fine art and Career Technical Education;

i)	Provide availability of school physical education classes;

j)	Provide availability of elementary and secondary librarian services;

k)	Provide availability of school counselor, school nurse, other student support staff positions;

l)	Provide availability of athletics and co-curricular programs including drama, debate, robotics and journalism
programs.

m)	Provide supplemental staff training for classified and certificated employees;

n)	Improve student nutrition by providing fresh farm produce and from scratch meals;

o)	Provide additional classroom and library instructional materials, technological materials, equipment and
services, and other educational equipment for schools; and

p)	Provide availability of school site safety and support staff.

Basis of Tax

By this parcel tax measure, the District seeks voter approval of a tax that shall be levied on all Parcels of
Taxable Real Property in the District at a rate of Six Hundred and Twenty Dollars ($620.00) per parcel (“Parcel Tax
Rate”). The new level of parcel taxes will be imposed commencing with the 2017-2018 tax year and will run for a
period of eight (8) years.

To account for the impact of inflation on the cost of delivering the classroom programs and student services
supported by the education parcel tax, the Parcel Tax Rate as set forth above, shall be adjusted annually, as determined
by the Board, commencing as of the 2018-19 tax year, for inflation by the change in the "Consumer Price Index for all 1
Urban Consumers California (1982-84=100)" published by the U.S. Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics. V,
In the event this index is no longer published, the Board shall adopt a comparable index of general price levels as it
shall reasonably determine.

“Parcel of Taxable Real Property” is defined as any unit of real property in the District that receives a separate
tax bill for ad valorem property taxes from the Yolo or Solano County Treasurer-Tax Collector’s Office, as applicable

depending on parcel location. All property that is otherwise exempt from or upon which no ad valorem property taxes
are levied in any year shall also be exempt from the special tax in such year.

If more than one adjacent Assessor parcel constitutes a single parcel under the Subdivision Map Act (California
Government Code section 66410 etseq.), then the parcel will be treated as a single Parcel of Taxable Real Property for
purposes of the amount of tax due, and a claim for refund may be made by the property owner pursuant to the claim
procedures outlined below.

Exemptions

Senior Exemption From Special Tax. An exemption from payment of the special tax may be granted on any
parcel owned by one or more persons 65 years of age or over as of July 1 of each tax year, who occupies parcel as a
principal residence, upon application for exemption (“Senior Citizen Exemption”). Applications for such exemptions
must be made and delivered to the District during the period from May 15 through June 15 (or the next regular business
day thereafter) prior to the year the parcel tax is levied in accordance with the process established by the Davis Joint
Unified School District Governing Board, or its designee.

Supplemental Security Income (SSI) Recipient Exemption From Special Tax. An exemption from payment
of the special tax may be granted on any parcel owned by one or more persons receiving Supplemental Security
Income (“SSI") for disability, regardless of age, who occupies the parcel as a principal residence, upon application for
exemption (“SSI Recipient Exemption”). Applications for such exemptions must be made and delivered to the District
during the period from May 15 through June 15 (or the next regular business day thereafter) prior to each year the
parcel tax is levied in accordance with the process established by the Davis Joint Unified School District Governing
Board, or its designee.

Social Security Disability Insurance Exemption. An exemption from payment of the special tax may be
granted on any parcel owned by one or more persons receiving Social Security Disability Insurance benefits (“SSDI"),

C regardless of age, who occupies the parcel as a principal residence, and whose yearly income does not exceed 250
percent of the 2012 federal poverty guidelines issued by the United States Department of Health and Human Services,
upon application for exemption (“SSDI Recipient Exemption”). Applications for such exemptions must be made and
delivered to the District during the period from May 15 through June 15 (or the next regular business day thereafter)
prior to each year the parcel tax is levied in accordance with the process established by the Davis Joint Unified School
District Governing Board, or its designee.

Claim Procedures

With respect to all general property tax issues and billing matters within its jurisdiction, the Yolo or Solano
County Tax Assessor, as applicable, or other appropriate County tax official shall make all final determinations of tax
exemption or relief for any reason, and that decision shall be final and binding. With respect to matters specific to
the levy of the special tax, including determination of Senior Citizen exemption, SSI Recipient Exemption and SSDI
Recipient Exemption, however, the decisions of the District shall be final and binding. In the latter case, a claim for a
refund of the special tax shall comply with the following and any additional procedures as established by the Board:

(a)	All claims shall be filed with the Superintendent of the District no later than one year after the date the tax
was paid. The claimant shall file the claim within this time period and the claim shall be finally acted upon the Board as
a prerequisite to bringing suit thereon.

(b)	Pursuant to Government Code section 935 (b) the claim shall be subject to the provisions of Government
Code sections 945.6 and 946.

(c)	The Board shall act on a timely claim within the time period required by Government Code section 912.4.

(d)	The procedure described herein, and any additional procedures established by the Board, shall be the
exclusive claims procedure for claimants seeking a refund, reduction, or recomputation of the special tax. Whether
f any particular claim is to be resolved by the District or by the County shall be determined by the District, in coordination
Vy with the County as necessary.

Appropriations Limit

Pursuant to California Constitution article XIIIB and applicable laws, the appropriations limit for the District will
be adjusted periodically by the aggregate sum collected by levy of this special tax.

19

5 7/46

depending on parcel location. All property that is otherwise exempt from or upon which no ad valorem property taxes
are levied in any year shall also be exempt from the special tax in such year.

If more than one adjacent Assessor parcel constitutes a single parcel under the Subdivision Map Act {California
Government Code section 66410 et seq.), then the parcel will be treated as a single Parcel of Taxable Real Property for
purposes of the amount of tax due, and a claim for refund may be made by the property owner pursuant to the claim
procedures outlined below.

Exemptions

Senior Exemption From Special Tax. An exemption from payment of the special tax may be granted on any
parcel owned by one or more persons 65 years of age or over as of July 1 of each tax year, who occupies parcel as a
principal residence, upon application for exemption (“Senior Citizen Exemption”). Applications for such exemptions
must be made and delivered to the District during the period from May 15 through June 15 (or the next regular business
day thereafter) prior to the year the parcel tax is levied in accordance with the process established by the Davis Joint
Unified School District Governing Board, or its designee.

Supplemental Security Income (SSI) Recipient Exemption From Special Tax. An exemption from payment
of the special tax may be granted on any parcel owned by one or more persons receiving Supplemental Security
Income (“SSI”) for disability, regardless of age, who occupies the parcel as a principal residence, upon application for
exemption (“SSI Recipient Exemption"). Applications for such exemptions must be made and delivered to the District
during the period from May 15 through June 15 (or the next regular business day thereafter) prior to each year the
parcel tax is levied in accordance with the process established by the Davis Joint Unified School District Governing
Board, or its designee.

Social Security Disability Insurance Exemption. An exemption from payment of the special tax may be
granted on any parcel owned by one or more persons receiving Social Security Disability Insurance benefits ("SSDI"),
vn regardless of age, who occupies the parcel as a principal residence, and whose yearly income does not exceed 250
vj percent of the 2012 federal poverty guidelines issued by the United States Department of Health and Human Services,
upon application for exemption ("SSDI Recipient Exemption”). Applications for such exemptions must be made and
delivered to the District during the period from May 15 through June 15 (or the next regular business day thereafter)
prior to each year the parcel tax is levied in accordance with the process established by the Davis Joint Unified School
District Governing Board, or its designee.

Claim Procedures

With respect to all general property tax issues and billing matters within its jurisdiction, the Yolo or Solano
County Tax Assessor, as applicable, or other appropriate County tax official shall make all final determinations of tax
exemption or relief for any reason, and that decision shall be final and binding. With respect to matters specific to
the levy of the special tax, including determination of Senior Citizen exemption, SSI Recipient Exemption and SSDI
Recipient Exemption, however, the decisions of the District shall be final and binding. In the latter case, a claim for a
refund of the special tax shall comply with the following and any additional procedures as established by the Board:

(a)	All claims shall be filed with the Superintendent of the District no later than one year after the date the tax
was paid. The claimant shall file the claim within this time period and the claim shall be finally acted upon the Board as
a prerequisite to bringing suit thereon.

(b)	Pursuant to Government Code section 935 (b) the claim shall be subject to the provisions of Government
Code sections 945.6 and 946.

(c)	The Board shall act on a timely claim within the time period required by Government Code section 912.4.

(d)	The procedure described herein, and any additional procedures established by the Board, shall be the
exclusive claims procedure for claimants seeking a refund, reduction, or recomputation of the special tax. Whether

»any particular claim is to be resolved by the District or by the County shall be determined by the District, in coordination
with the County as necessary.

Appropriations Limit

Pursuant to California Constitution article XIIIB and applicable laws, the appropriations limit for the District will
be adjusted periodically by the aggregate sum collected by levy of this special tax.

IUIHiIIIIIIII

5 7/46

19

Accountability Measures

The proceeds of the special tax shall be applied only to the specific purposes identified above. The proceeds
of the special tax shall be deposited into a fund, which shall be kept separate and apart from other funds of the District. '
No later than January 1 of each year while the tax is in effect, the District shall prepare and file with the Board a report
detailing the amount of funds collected and expended, and the status of any project authorized to be funded by this
measure.

In addition, an independent Citizens Oversight Committee shall be appointed by the Governing Board to
ensure that the special tax proceeds collected pursuant to this measure are spent for their authorized purposes, and
to report annually to the Governing Board and the public regarding the expenditure of such funds.

The Board hereby declares, and the voters by approving this measure concur, that every section and part of this
measure has independent value, and the Board and the voters would have adopted each provision hereof regardless
of every other provision hereof. Upon approval of this measure by the voters, should any part of the measure or taxing
formula be found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, all remaining parts of the measure
or taxing formula hereof shall remain In full force and effect to the fullest extent allowed by law.

Protection of Funding

Current law forbids any decrease in State or Federal funding to the District because of the District’s adoption
of a parcel tax. However, if any such funds are reduced because of the adoption of this parcel tax, then the amount of
the special taxes will be reduced annually as necessary in order to restore such State or Federal funding.

Severability

(I