017

County of Santa Barbara

Sample Ballot &

Voter Information Pamphlet

Presidential General Election
November 8, 2016

Polls are open 7am - 8pm

<- Polling place location on back cover. Your polling
place may have changed. Please see the back cover
for your current location.

JOSEPH E. HOLLAND

4440-A Calle Real
Santa Barbara, CA93110
1-(805) 568-2200 or
Toll Free 1-(800) SBC-VOTE (722-8683)

Website: http://www.sbcvote.com

Language Assistance

The County of Santa Barbara provides voting materials in English to all registered voters. In addition,
as required by law, voting information is also available in Spanish. In certain areas of Santa Maria,
there are a high number of Tagalog speakers, and we are required to provide voters in certain
precincts with copies of their balloting material in Tagalog upon request.

El Condado de Santa Barbara provee materiales de votacion en ingles para todos los electores
inscritos. Ademas, segun lo exige la ley, la information de votacion tambien esta disponible en
espanol. En ciertas areas de Santa Maria, hay un alto numero de hablantes de Tagalo, y se nos
exige proporcionarles a los electores de ciertos distritos electorales copias de su material electoral
en Tagalo, previa solicitud.

Ang County ng Santa Barbara ay nagkakaloob ng mga materyales sa pagboto sa wikang Ingles sa
lahat ng rehistradong botante. Bukod pa rito, alinsunod sa inaatas ng batas, mayroon ding
impormasyon sa pagboto sa wikang Espanyol. Sa ilang partikular na lugar ng Santa Maria,
maraming nagsasalita ng Tagalog, at inaatasan kaming magbigay sa mga botante sa ilang partikular
na presinto ng mga kopya ng kanilang mga materyales sa pagboto sa Tagalog kung hihilingin.

For language assistance, call: 1-800-SBC-VOTE (1-800-722-8683)

Para asistencia de idiomas, Name al: 1-800-SBC-VOTE (1-800-722-8683)

Para sa tulong sa wika, tumawag sa: 1-800-SBC-VOTE (1-800-722-8683)
tp-Z I Chinese: 1-800-722-8683	/ Korean: 1-800-722-8683

/ Hindi: 1 -800-722-8683	/nmTnu	/ Thai: 1 -800-722-8683

/ Japanese: 1 -800-722-8683	Vie	ngCr / Vietnamese: 1 -800-722-8683

hi I Khmer: 1-800-722-8683

County Election Offices

1-800-SBC-VOTE (722-8683) Website: sbcvote.com

SANTA BARBARA AREA

4440-A Calle Real
Office Hours: 8am - 5pm Mon. - Fri.

LOMPOC AREA

401 E. Cypress Ave, Room 102
Office Hours (Beginning Oct. 10, 2016): 9am - Noon andlpm -4pm Mon. - Fri.

SANTA MARIA AREA

511 E. Lakeside Parkway, Suite 134
Office Hours: 8am - Noon and 1pm - 5pm Mon. - Fri.

PLEASE HELP SUPPORT YOUR COMMUNITY

WORK AT A VOTE CENTER ON ELECTION DAY

Must Be Available To Work
6am - 9pm on Tuesday, November 8, 2016.

Paid Positions From $180-$240
For More Information, please call 1-844-259-0348

What’s in this Voter Information
Pamphlet?

Ways to Vote	
Voter Bill of Rights	2
Accessible Voting	3
3 Ways to Vote	4
How to Vote with a Paper Ballot	5
How to Vote by Mail	6
How to Vote at the Polls	7
Important Notices and Information	
Polling Place Location Changes	8
Important Deadlines and Voter Registration Information	9
Ballot and Candidate Information	
What’s on the Ballot for this Election?	10
Information About the Candidates	11
Appendices	
Candidate Statements	A
Local Ballot Measures	B
Sample/Practice Ballot	C

FP-01

Page 1

SR 017-01

Voter Bill of Rights

YOU HAVE THE FOLLOWING RIGHTS:

The right to vote if you are a registered
voter.

You are eligible to vote if you are:

•	a U.S. citizen living in California

•	at least 18 years old

•	registered where you currently live

•	not in prison or on parole for a felony

it

it

k. The right to vote if you are a registered
^ voter even if your name is not on the list.

You will vote using a provisional ballot.
Your vote will be counted if elections
officials determine that you are
eligible to vote.

jk The right to vote if you are still in line
^ when the polls close.

i The right to cast a secret ballot without
anyone bothering you or telling you
how to vote.

The right to get a new ballot if you have
made a mistake, if you have not already
cast your ballot. You can:

Ask an elections official at a polling
place for a new ballot; or
Exchange your vote-by-mail ballot
for a new one at an elections
office, or at your polling place; or
Vote using a provisional ballot, if
you do not have your original
vote-by-mail ballot.

The right to get help casting your
ballot from anyone you choose,
except from your employer or
union representative.

The right to drop off your completed
vote-by-mail ballot at any polling place

in the county where you are registered
to vote.

The right to get election materials in a
language other than English if enough
people in your voting precinct speak
that language.

The right to ask questions to elections
officials about election procedures and

watch the election process. If the
person you ask cannot answer your
questions, they must send you to the
right person for an answer. If you are
disruptive, they can stop answering
you.

The right to report any illegal or
fraudulent election activity to an

elections official or the Secretary of
State’s office.

On the web at
^ www.sos.ca.gov

©By phone at

(800) 345-VOTE (8683)

By email at

elections@sos.ca.gov

IF YOU BELIEVE YOU HAVE BEEN DENIED ANY OF THESE RIGHTS, CALL THE SECRETARY OF STATE’S
CONFIDENTIAL TOLL-FREE VOTER HOTLINE AT (800) 345-VOTE (8683)

Accessible Voting

At the polling place

To check polling place accessibility, look for the wheelchair symbol on the back cover of
this pamphlet. In some polling places, temporary thresholds, mats, signage, cones, and
door props are used to improve access to the facility.

Curbside voting

If your polling place is not accessible, you may vote on a paper ballot from a car. Two pollworkers
will provide the roster for your signature, bring you the ballot and return the voted ballot to the
polling place. To request curbside voting assistance, you can:

•	call 1-844-259-0348 in advance to coordinate a time and place

•	have an assistant make the request inside the polling place
Accessible voting system

Each polling place in the county has an AutoMARK ballot marking device with:

•	an audio option that reads the ballot to you through headphones

•	a universal plug for personal assistive devices if needed

•	large print and black/white contrast

•	a choice of English or Spanish language, and Tagalog in designated areas
Voting information

Audio versions of the information printed in the County Sample BallotA/oter Information Pamphlet
and the State Voter Pamphlet are available on request. Please call 1-800-SBC-VOTE (800-722-
8683)

A ride to your polling site

Transportation to and from polling places is available on Election Day to senior citizens and to
persons with mobility impairments.

Carpinteria Area (Help of Carpinteria): Call 805-684-0065, 8am-4pm for reservations. Service
Donation $1.

Santa Barbara/Goleta Area (Easy Lift Transportation): Call 805-681-1181 for reservations.

Santa Ynez/Solvanq Area (Santa Ynez Transit): Please call 805-688-5452 at least 24 hours in
advance for reservations. Service fee $1.75 each way.

Lompoc Area (Lompoc Transit Systems): Must submit an application in advance to be placed on
list to receive services. Lompoc City residents service fee $1 each way and Vandenberg/Mission
Hills residents $1.25 each way. For more information call 805-736-7666.

Santa Maria Area

(SMOOTH-Santa Maria Organization of Transportation Helpers): Must be at least 60 years old to
be eligible for services. Call 805-922-8476 one week in advance 9am-4pm for reservations.
Service fee $2 one way or $4 round trip.

(Santa Maria Transit): Must submit an application in advance to be placed on list to receive
services. Service fee $1.25 each way. For more information call 805-928-5624.

How to request assistance

For more information on accessible voting:

HtoII Free Phone: 1-800-SBC-VOTE (1-800-722-8683)

@ TDD: 1-800-833-8683

FP-03

Page 3

SR 017-03

3 Ways to Vote

Vote by mail

Request a vote-by-mail ballot by November 1

Return it by mail, deliver it to one of the County
Election offices, or drop it off on Election Day at
any polling place in Santa Barbara County

Vote-by-mail ballots must be postmarked or
delivered to a polling place by November 8

For more details, see page 6

Vote early in person

You may vote early at three locations
October 10 to November 7

Locations

Santa Barbara Elections Main Office
4440-A Calle Real
Monday - Friday 8am-5pm

Lompoc Elections Branch Office
401 E. Cypress Ave, Room 102
Monday - Friday 9am-4pm, closed noon - 1pm

Santa Maria Elections Branch Office
511 E. Lakeside Parkway, Suite 134
Monday - Friday 8am-5pm, closed noon - 1pm

All locations will be open

Saturday, October 22 and November 5 from 9am to 1 pm

Vote at the polls in person

Polls and election offices are open on Election Day:
November 8, from 7am to 8pm

The location of your polling place is printed on the back
cover of this pamphlet

Or, you can look up your polling place:

•	On the web: sbcvote.com

•	Call the County Elections office at
1-800 SBC-VOTE (1-800-722-8683)

For more details, see page 7

FP-06

Page 4

SR 017-04

How to Vote with a Paper Ballot

Mark your ballot

Use only a blue or black ballpoint ink pen. Do not use red ink pens, Sharpies,
markers or any other type of pen.

Fill in the oval to the left of the candidates name and measure choice.

Do not sign your name on your ballot, write your initials, or write any other words or
marks on your voted ballot.

To vote for a qualified write-in candidate, write their name on the blank line at the end
of the list of candidates.

Then fill in the oval to the left of the candidates’ name.

A list of qualified write-in candidates is available at the polling place on Election Day. The
list is posted on our website at sbcvote.com ten days prior to Election Day.

Check your ballot carefully

If you make a mistake, ask the poll worker for a new ballot or follow the instructions in
your vote-by-mail ballot packet.

OFFICIAL BALLOT  VOTE FOR NO MORE THAN TWO		OFFICIAL BALLOT  VOTE FOR ONE  O 			OFFICIAL BALLOT  VOTE FOR ONE
				O 	
				
				cz> 	
				
				o 	  m rnmrn
<o 			<Z>		
				

Don’t vote for too many Vote for the number allowed Always fill in the oval, even on a

write-in vote

FP-07

Page 5

SR 017-05

How to Vote by Mail

You can vote by mail before Election Day

To vote by mail, you have to request a ballot. Then you can mark the ballot and send it
back or drop it off at any polling place in Santa Barbara County. You can vote by mail for
this election only or for all future elections.

How to get your vote-by-mail ballot

You must request a vote-by-mail ballot by November 1.

You can:

S Use the application for a vote-by-mail ballot at sbcvote.com

D Request that a vote-by-mail ballot be sent to you by calling 1-800-SBC-VOTE
(1-800-722-8683)

Isl Use the application on the back of this Voter Information Pamphlet, and send it to:

Registrar of Voters Office
P.O. Box 61510

Santa Barbara, CA 93160-1510

When the elections official receives your application, a vote-by-mail ballot will be sent to
you.

Overseas voters, military personnel and their dependents can get a vote-by-mail ballot by
asking their commanding officer, or go to: sbcvote.com.

How to return your vote-by-mail ballot

Mark your ballot. Then follow the instructions mailed in your ballot packet.

You can:

(sl Mail your ballot, so that it is postmarked by Election Day, November 8

-OR-

1^1 Hand deliver your ballot to one of

The County Election Offices in Santa Barbara, Lompoc or Santa Maria

-OR-

1=1 Drop off your ballot on Election Day at any polling place in Santa Barbara County, a
list of polling locations can be found at www.sbcvote.com

FP-08

Page 6

SR 017-06

How to Vote At Your Polling Place

Find polling place on back cover of sample ballot or call the elections office at 1-800-SBC-VOTE or
1-800-722-8683.

Polls are open from 7am to 8pm on Election Day.

For information on voting assistance, please see page 3.

How do I find my precinct board at the polling place?

You will also see the word “Table” and a letter such as A on the back cover. This lets you know which
table you should go to at your polling place.

What do I do once I am at my polling place?

At your precinct table:

• You will be asked to state your name and address.

• You will then be asked to sign the Official Roster next to your name/address.

•	You will then be provided your ballot, a ballot marking pen and secrecy sleeve. Please make sure
your ballot matches the practice ballot in this pamphlet and follow the instructions on the ballot.

•	Vote your ballot at one of the voting booths and then take it to the clerk near the ballot box who will
ask you to deposit your ballot in the ballot box.

What to do if

You received a vote by mail ballot and want to vote at my polling place:

•	Take your ballot to the polling place and give it to the roster clerk.

•	If you do not have your ballot to turn in to the roster clerk, you will be issued a provisional ballot.

You changed your name and did not reregister:

•	Let the roster clerk know, they will give you a new voter registration form	to complete.

•	You will need to sign your new and old name in the Official Roster.

You didn’t provide your driver’s license number when you mailed in your voter
registration and you are voting for the first time:

•	See page 9 in this pamphlet for information on Requirements for First Time Voters.

Your name is not listed in the Official Roster, or you are listed at a different address:

•	Check to see if you are at the correct precinct table.

•	Contact the elections office. The precinct board will have cards with our telephone number and
our staff can confirm you are registered and direct you to the correct polling location, or

•	You can vote a provisional ballot at that precinct.

You need assistance marking your ballot:

•	You are allowed to bring up to two persons to assist you with marking your ballot;

•	You can ask a poll worker to assist you with marking your ballot;

•	Assistance CANNOT be provided by your employer or an officer or agent of a union you are a
member of;

•	Tell the poll worker signing you in that you need assistance voting your ballot;

•	You and our assistant(s) will be asked to complete the Assisted Voter section of the Official Roster.

FP-09

Page 7

SR 017-07

Polling Place Changes

There are several polling place changes for the 2016 elections.

Please check the back of your sample ballot for your polling place location or call
1 -800-SBC-VOTE.

The following is a list of polling place location or room changes from the June 2016 to the
November 2016 election:

Polling Place Location Changes

If vour pollinq place in the June 2016	Your pollinq place for the November 2016 General
Primary election was:	election will be:
Goleta	
Saint Mark’s Catholic Church	Isla Vista Community Resource Building  Community Room  970 Embarcadero Del Mar
Wolfe Hall	Saint Mark's Catholic Church 6550 Picasso Rd
Lompoc	
Church of Christ	Dick DeWees Community & Senior Center 102 C Banquet Room 1120 W. Ocean Ave

Polling Place Room Changes

Polling Place Name	Room in June election	New Room
SB Museum of Natural History  2559 Puesta Del Sol, Santa Barbara	Bird Hall	Fleischmann Auditorium

FP-10

Page 8

SR 017-08

Important Deadlines and Voter Registration Information

Important deadlines

Oct. 24	Last day to register to vote for this election

Nov. 1	Last day to request a vote-by-mail ballot

Nov. 8 Election Day

On Election Day:

•	Polling locations and county election offices are open from 7am to 8pm

•	Last day for vote-by-mail ballots to be postmarked or received in the County
Elections Office or any polling location in Santa Barbara County.

Has your voter registration status changed?

•	Have you moved?

•	Have you changed your name?

•	Have you changed your political party?

•	Has your mailing address changed?

If you can answer yes to any of these questions, then you need to update your registration at
registertovote.ca.gov or follow the link on the Santa Barbara County Elections website at
sbcvote.com.

Requirements for first time voters

Any person voting for the first time who registers by mail and does not provide their California
driver’s license, California identification number or last four digits of their Social Security number
will be asked to show a form of identification when they go to the polls, or to provide a copy of
that identification with their vote-by-mail ballot. There are 30 forms of identification that can be
used for this purpose under the Help America Vote Act of 2002, including a government issued
check or a utility bill that includes the person’s name and address.

For a full list of the forms of identification that can be used, visit the Secretary of State’s website
at: sos.ca.gov/administration/regulations/current-regulations/elections/help-america-vote-
act-identification-standards.

Notice of alternate residency confirmation purge

An alternate residency confirmation purge is scheduled for January 2017. A postcard will be
mailed to voters who do not vote in the primary or general elections in 2016, and their residence
address, name, or party preference has not been updated during that time.

If the voter casts a ballot in the statewide primary or general election in 2016, the voter will not be
sent an alternate residency confirmation postcard.

FP-11

Page 9

SR 017-09

What’s on the Ballot for this Election?

Presidential General Election - November 8,2016

You will receive two Voter Information Pamphlets for this election with information about
your ballot.

Santa Barbara County Pamphlet
(this pamphlet)

Local, city and county races and measures are on the pages
in this pamphlet.

Offices that may be on your ballot

County Supervisor, 3rd District
City Races
School Districts
Special Districts

Measures that may be on your ballot

B2016 - Transient Occupancy Tax (County)

C2016 - Election of Mayor and terms (City of Goleta)

D2016 - Santa Barbara Marijuana Control Act (City of
Santa Barbara)

E2016 - Formation of Isla Vista Community Services District
F2016 - Utility User Tax (Proposed Isla Vista Community
Services District)

G2016 - Bond Measure (Orcutt Union School District)

H2016 - Bond Measure (Santa Maria Joint Union High
School District)

12016 - Bond Measure (Santa Barbara Unified School District)
J2016 - Bond Measure (Santa Barbara Unified School
District, SFID No. 1)

K2016 - Bond Measure (Santa Ynez Valley Union High
School District)

L2016 - Bond Measure (Lompoc Unified School District)
M2016 - Bond Measure (Guadalupe Union School District)
N2016 - Bond Measure (Guadalupe Union School District)

County of Santa Barbara

Sample Ballot &

Voter Information Pamphlet

Pre*Jdentl*l General Election
November 8, 3016

Potts are open 7am - 8pm

California

General

Election

Tuesday

November 8, 2016

California Voter Information Guide

U.S. national races, state races, and state
propositions are in the guide from the state.

Offices that may be on your ballot

United States President
United States Senator
State Senator, 19th District
U.S. Representative, 24th District
State Assembly, 35th District
State Assembly, 37th District

State Propositions

There are 17 State Propositions on the
ballot for November. Please see the Voter
Information Guide provided by the State for
a complete list.

FP-12

Page 10

SR 017-10

Information About the Candidates

Who is running for office?

A complete list of the candidates on your ballot, their contact information and campaign
financial disclosure statements is available online:

IS Local candidates: SBCVOTE.com or Call 1-800-SBC-VOTE (1-800-722-8683)

(S Statewide candidates: sos.ca.gov
IS Federal Candidates: fec.gov

Expenditure Limitations - State Legislative Candidates

Voters passed Proposition 34 in November 2000. This law says we must tell voters the
names of candidates who agree to campaign spending limits. This law only applies to
candidates for State Legislative offices. Candidates who agree are allowed to pay for and
publish a candidate’s statement of qualifications in this Voter Information Pamphlet.

The following candidates have agreed to abide by the campaign spending limit and a
candidate statement is included in your Voter Information Pamphlet:

State Assembly, 35th District	State Assembly, 37th District

Jordan Cunningham	S. Monique Limon

Edward Fuller

The following candidates have agreed to abide by the campaign spending limit but have
elected not to submit a candidate statement:

State Senate, 19th District

Colin Patrick Walch

Party Endorsements

Parties have the option of submitting candidate endorsements for printing in this
pamphlet. Not all parties submit an endorsement and some parties may endorse a
candidate from another party. The candidate’s party preference does not necessarily
mean that they have that political party’s endorsement or support.

Office	Democratic	Republican
U.S. Senate	Kamala D. Harris	No endorsement
U.S. Representative, 24th Dist.	Salud Carbajal	Justin Donald Fareed
State Senator, 19th Dist.	Hannah-Beth Jackson	Colin Patrick Walch
State Assembly, 35th Dist.	Dawn Ortiz-Legg	Jordan Cunningham
State Assembly, 37th Dist.	S. Monique Limon	No endorsement

FP-13

Page 11

SR 017-11

THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK

FP-IB

SR 017-12

Candidate Statements - Appendix A

__inlH

Candidates have the option to prepare and pay for a statement to be printed in this
pamphlet. The candidate statements are printed exactly as submitted, including errors.
The statements are printed in the random alpha order conducted by either the Secretary
of State or County Elections Official depending upon the race.

The following pages may not represent a complete list of candidates. A complete list of
candidates appears on the sample/practice ballot pages of this pamphlet.

THE FOLLOWING PAGES CONTAIN CANDIDATE STATEMENTS

(For races that will be on your ballot)

FP-A

Appendix A

SR 017-13

STATEMENT OF CANDIDATE FOR
United States Representative
24th District

SALUD CARBAJAL

Education and Qualifications: I’m Salud Carbajal. I’m a proud husband, father,
and Marine Corps veteran.

I was the first in my family to graduate from a university, working two jobs to pay
for my education at UCSB. I know what it’s like to struggle, and I’m committed to
making sure other families have the same opportunities I had to get ahead.

For the last 12 years as a Santa Barbara County Supervisor, I’ve strived to
represent our Central Coast values. I’m proud to have earned endorsements from
Planned Parenthood and the Sierra Club for standing up for women’s reproductive
rights, fighting for marriage equality, and protecting our environment.

I’ve worked with my Democratic and Republican colleagues to expand health
insurance to 14,000 county children; invested in widening Highway 101 and other
road projects to reduce congestion; and protected funding for public safety to keep
our communities safe, even during tough economic times.

We’ve done that while using your tax dollars wisely-balancing the budget every
year, building up the largest rainy day fund in county history, and earning the
highest bond rating in the state.

In Congress, I’ll bring that same bipartisan spirit to tackling big issues: bringing
down the cost of college; protecting our environment; creating new jobs by
supporting small businesses and renewable energy; defeating ISIS; passing
comprehensive immigration reform; reducing gun violence; and standing up for
women’s rights and health care access.

For more information about our campaign, please visit SaludCarbajal.com.

I hope to earn your support on November 8th.

Thank you,

Salud

STATEMENT OF CANDIDATE FOR
United States Representative
24th District

JUSTIN DONALD FAREED

Occupation: Vice President of Local Small Business/Third Generation
Cattle Rancher

Education and Qualifications: I’m running for Congress to get it working
again for the American people, to bring true representation for the Central Coast
to Washington, and to solve long-range issues that will affect this and future
generations with new leadership and 21st century solutions.

Born and raised on the Central Coast, I attended Santa Barbara High School and
continued my education at UCLA. After playing and coaching football at my alma
mater, I worked for a senior member of Congress where I led a staff delegation to
the Syrian border in Turkey and saw first-hand the instability in the region, helped
draft several bills, built consensus among members, and successfully moved
things forward.

A third generation California cattle rancher and Vice President of my family’s
manufacturing and distribution small business, I understand the burdensome
taxes and regulations coming out of Washington, and the implications it has on
businesses, our agricultural community and job opportunities along the Central
Coast. I’ve seen the dysfunction, polarization and empty rhetoric coming out of
Washington from my time spent on Capitol Hill and I know how to fix it.

As your representative, I’ll work to reduce the out of control national debt and
overregulation on Central Coast businesses, invest in infrastructure to bring
long-range solutions to California’s water crisis, improve our education, ensure
economic stability and local job opportunities for generations to come, and
advocate for a concerted approach to our national security in order to provide a
better way forward for all Americans.

Learn more: www.justinfareed.com

SR 017-14

STATEMENT OF CANDIDATE FOR
Member of the State Assembly
37th District

S. MONIQUE LIMON

Occupation: Educator/School Boardmember

Education and Qualifications: I have the integrity and experience to represent
the people of Santa Barbara County in the State Assembly.

As a lifelong resident of the area and educator, I will be an effective champion
for our schools, colleges and universities at the State Capitol. For over a decade,
I have assisted hundreds of local students transition to and succeed in college
through my work at UCSB.

I have worked with families locally to ensure access to health, career, and
economic opportunities. My professional and public service experiences give
me a unique understanding of how state policies and programs impact local
communities. I understand the role the state can play in shaping outcomes for
people, businesses, and communities and will be a strong voice for us at the
State Capitol.

I also have a proven record of protecting our coast and environment, improving
job training, and advancing women’s health care. I bring people together to get
things done.

When in Sacramento, I will work to pass fair budgets, both balanced and on time.

I will strive to expand quality health care, boost our regional economy through
job creation, and work to protect our environment and quality of life on the South
Coast.

That is why I am supported by the Santa Barbara Teachers Association, California
League of Conservation Voters, California Nurses Association, California
Professional Firefighters, State Senator Hannah-Beth Jackson, Assemblymember
Das Williams, Santa Barbara County Supervisors Salud Carbajal, Doreen Farr
and Janet Wolf, Mayor Helene Schneider, Goleta Councilmembers Paula Perotte
and Michael Bennett, Carpinteria Councilmember Fred Shaw, and many more.

Visit www.LimonforAssembly.com

STATEMENT OF CANDIDATE FOR
Member of the State Assembly
37th District

EDWARD FULLER	AGE:	60

Education and Qualifications: People complain about growth in their
neighborhoods but did you know this is mandated by state law? You are paying
the price of Sacramento bureaucrats bent on driving up the population of California
and your community. It will be my goal to dismantle the state’s control of the
planning process and return it to local citizens. Only you should be in control of
how big your neighborhood gets.

The condition of the state’s roads ranks 44th worst in the nation. The projected
shortfall to maintaining our road infrastructure over the next ten years is $130
billion. Sacramento is unwilling to deal with this problem. I will work to put this
issue directly to the state’s voters to decide on a longterm solution that will
preserve our road system.

Education is the most valuable investment our state can make in our future. I will
be an advocate for better results and wise use of resources.

I will be an independent voice for the simplest pragmatic, creative, common sense
solutions. I have decades of experience in negotiations, training in mediation, and
an education in accounting. My career has been one of fiduciary service, as a
trusted representative for my clients. A native of Santa Barbara, I grew up with a
respect for all persons and their property. I have spent my life as an observer &
participant in government. If elected I will work to create the best California for all
citizens. For more information visit FullerForAssembly.org.

SR 017-15

THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK

FP-IB

SR 017-16

Local Ballot Measures - Appendix B

Arguments in support of or in opposition to the measures are the opinions of the authors.
The full text, fiscal impact statement, tax rate statement, impartial analysis and arguments
for ballot measures are printed exactly as submitted, including errors, the full text of the
measures, fiscal impact statement, tax rate statement, impartial analysis and arguments
are also available on our website at sbcvote.com.

THE FOLLOWING PAGES CONTAIN
BALLOT MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(For measures that will be on your ballot)

FP-B

Appendix B

SR 017-17

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL
MEASURE 12016
SANTA BARBARA UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT

This measure was placed on the ballot by the Board of Education of the
Santa Barbara Unified School District, which is the governing board of
the school district.

If approved by 55% of the voters voting on the proposition, this measure
authorizes the Santa Barbara Unified School District (District) to issue
$135,000,000 in bonds to provide financing for the specific junior and
high school facilities projects listed in the District’s Project List. The
Project List, as well as the full text of the measure, is printed in the ballot
pamphlet. None of the proceeds from the sale of bonds may be used for
teacher or administrator salaries or operating expenses.

The bonds and interest thereon would be payable from property taxes
levied on taxable property in the District. These taxes would be in
addition to the property taxes currently levied on taxpayers in the District.
The amount of the increased taxes each year would depend upon the
amount needed to pay the principal and interest on the bonds.

The bond measure includes the following accountability requirements:

A.	A requirement that the proceeds from the bond sale be used
only for the above purposes and not for any other purpose,
including teacher and administrator salaries, and other school
operating expenses.

B.	A list of the specific school facilities projects to be funded and
certification that the school district board has evaluated safety,
class size, and information technology needs in developing that
list.

C.	A requirement that the school district board conduct an annual,
independent performance audit to ensure that the funds have
been spent only on the specific school facilities projects listed
in the Project List.

D.	A requirement that the school district board conduct an annual,
independent financial audit of the bond proceeds.

E.	If the measure is approved, the District Board of Education
will also establish a citizens' oversight committee to monitor
expenditures and ensure that bond proceeds are spent as
promised and specified.

/s/Michael C. Ghizzoni
County Counsel

Dated: July 27,2016

TAX RATE STATEMENT
MEASURE 12016
SANTA BARBARA UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT

An election will be in the Santa Barbara Unified School District
(the "District”) on November 8, 2016, to authorize the sale of up to
$135,000,000 in bond of the District to finance school facilities as
described in the proposition. If the bonds are approved, the District
expects to sell the bonds in multiple series. Principal interest on the
bonds will be payable from the process of tax levies made upon the
taxable property in the District. The information regarding tax rates is
provided to comply with Section 9401 of the Election Code of the State
of California. This information is based upon the best estimates and
projections presently available from official sources, upon experience
within the District and other demonstrable factors.

Based upon the foregoing and projections of the assessed valuations
of taxable property in the District, and assuming the entire debt service,
including principal and interest on the bonds, will be paid through property
taxation:

1.	The best estimate from official sources of the tax rate which would
be required to be levied to fund the bond issue during the first fiscal year
after the first sale of bonds, and an estimate of the year in which that tax
rate will apply is $.01149 per $100, or $11.49 per $100,000 of assessed
valuation of all property to be taxed in fiscal year 2017-2018.

2.	The best estimate from official sources of the tax rate which would
be required to be levied to fund the bond issue during the first fiscal year
after the last sale of bonds and an estimate of the year in which that rate
will apply is $0.01149 per $100, or $11.49 per $100,000 of assessed
valuation of all property to be taxed in 2028-2029.

3.	The best estimate from official sources of the highest tax rate which
would be required to be levied to find the bond issue and an estimate of
the year in which that rate will apply is $0.01149 per $100 or $11.49 per
$100,000 of assessed valuation of all property to be taxed in fiscal year
2017-2018.

4.	The best estimate from official sources of the total debt service,
including principal and interest which would be required to be repaid by
tax rates levied on taxable property, if all the bonds are issued, sold and
paid as projected would be $253,230,906.

The attention of all voters is directed to the fact that the foregoing
information is based upon projections and estimates only. The actual tax
rates and the years in which they will apply may vary from those presently
estimated due to variations from these estimates in the timing of bond
sales, the amount of bonds sold, and the market interest rates at the
time of the sales, and the actual assessed valuations over the term of
repayment of the bonds. The date of sale and the amount of bonds sold
any given time will be determined by the District based on its need for
construction funding as well as other factors. The actual interest rates at
which the bonds will be sold will depend on bond market conditions at the
time of sale. Actual assessed valuations at future dates will depend upon
the amount and value of taxable property within the District as determined
by the County Assessor in the County of Santa Barbara in the annual
assessment and the equalization process. Accordingly, the actual tax
rate and the years in which such rates are applicable may vary from those
presently estimated above.

Isl Cary Matsuoka

Dated: June 14,2016

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
MEASURE 12016
SANTA BARBARA UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT

For 150 years, the Santa Barbara Unified School District has developed
the future business and civic leaders of Santa Barbara, Goleta and
Montecito. Our junior and senior high school facilities are the learning
environments that have fostered that development. But some of these
facilities, including several historic landmarks, date back almost a century
and need critical infrastructure improvements and renovation to continue
serving our students into the future.

SBUSD teaches students to master 21st century skills and prepares
them for college and high-quality jobs after graduation. TO achieve
this goal, our 7th to 12th grade students need safe, effective learning
environments that are well-maintained and up-to-date. They also need
practical, hands-on career training, and our district has a once-in-a-
lifetime opportunity to gain the unused National Guard Armory building
as a permanent educational and civic resource for this very purpose.

Vote YES on I to provide crucial infrastructure improvements to aging
buildings.

Vote YES on I to repair roofs, floors, plumbing, heating/ventilation and
electrical systems throughout our junior and senior high schools; upgrade
technology systems, improve energy efficiency, upgrade fire safety
systems, and remove asbestos and lead paint.

Vote YES on I to replace deteriorating portable classrooms with
permanent structures.

Vote YES on I to provide modernized classrooms, science labs, libraries
and other school facilities.

Vote YES on I to acquire the National Guard Armory property to support
college and career readiness.

Measure I requires strict taxpayer protections: no funds will be used for
administrators' salaries, pensions or benefits; all funds will remain local
and cannot be taken away by the State or used for other purposes; there
will be an independent Citizen Oversight Committee with mandatory
audits and a detailed project list will ensure funds are spent as promised.

Please Vote YES on Measure I.

The undersigned authors of the Argument in Favor of ballot measure
12016 at the Presidential General Election for the Santa Barbara Unified
School District to be held on November 8, 2016 hereby state that such
argument is true and correct to the best of their knowledge and belief.

IslDavid Cash	7/27/2016

Former Superintendent, SBUSD

Isl Lanny Ebenstein	7/27/2016

Former Board Member, SBUSD

Isl Geoff Green	7/28/2016

CEO, SBCC Foundation

Isl Randy Rowse	7/28/2016

City Council Santa Barbara

Isl Kate Parker	7/28/2016

Santa Barbara Unified School Board Trustee

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
MEASURE 12016
SANTA BARBARA UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT

Assuming you haven’t been living under a rock for the last five years, it
should be very apparent to anyone renting or wanting to own a home in
Santa Barbara, Montecito, Goleta and Isla Vista, that we have a RENTAL
AND HOUSING AFFORDABILITY CRISIS, the likes of which we have
never seen before.

The cheerleaders of these bonds will manipulate the numbers to convince
you the additional tax or rent increase will cost no more than a cup of
coffee. Don’t believe them. Leaving aside the six previous school bonds
on your property tax statements, the amount of debt service for these
new bonds will be close to HALF a BILLION DOLLARS, costing each
home owner or renter at least $12,500.

Paying for routine maintenance items (e.g. repairing roofs) from the
bonds, instead of from general operating funds, is inappropriate. Also,
because of unfavorable polling, the supporters aren’t mentioning the
athletic field/stadium/gymnasium projects or pool deck and field turf
replacements listed in the fine print of the bond resolution.

$20 million of bond proceeds have been set aside to purchase and
renovate the armory, despite having no clue what its intended use will
be. Incredibly, the city donated the property to the state many years ago
for a dollar, and now the local taxpayers will have to spend millions to
buy it back.

Why make it unaffordable for a young family, a lifelong resident or a
student in Isla Vista to continue to live here?

PLEASE VOTE NO.

The undersigned author of the Rebuttal to Argument in Favor of ballot
measure 12016 at the Presidential General Election for the Santa Barbara
Unified School District to be held on November 8,2016 hereby state that
such argument is true and correct to the best of his knowledge and belief.

/s/ Lou Segal	8/4/2016

District Resident, Parent & Past School Board Candidate

SR 017-19

ARGUMENT AGAINST
MEASURE 12016
SANTA BARBARA UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT

Here we go again: another regressive property tax for property owners,
which will assuredly result in rent increases for renters residing in the
district. We can spend millions building the best facilities money can buy,
but what good will it do if families at all income levels cannot afford to own
a home or rent an apartment in our beloved paradise.

If this were the first time we were forced to pay for a school bond to
keep our schools’ physical plant up-to-date, we might have been
supporters. But this is the eighth school bond appearing on our property
tax statements, and the requested amount is almost twice as much as
any previous bond measure.

We’ve been down this road before. Proposition 13, the voter uprising
in 1979, capped property taxes after many state residents were priced
out of their homes, partly because of soaring property taxes. The voters
never intended for our elected officials to create a backdoor to Proposition
13 to raise property taxes and rental rates this often and this much after
they were overwhelmingly told to stop the relentless tax increases.

It might surprise voters that many of the projects listed on the ballot were
not those necessarily approved by the school board or deemed to be
the most urgent. For instance, repairing libraries, upgrading technology,
ensuring safe drinking water, removing lead paint were only included
after being poll-tested by a very expensive polling firm, even though no
independent study demonstrated the water is unsafe or lead paint is a
problem. Also, the district is intending to pay almost $1 million for each
portable replacement, at least twice more expensive than necessary.

Finally, a $9 billion statewide facilities school bond is already on the
ballot, some of which will be spent in our district.

PLEASE VOTE NO.

The undersigned author of the Argument Against ballot measure 12016
at the Presidential General Election for the Santa Barbara Unified School
District to be held on November 8,2016 hereby states that such argument
is true and correct to the best of his knowledge and belief.

/s/Lou Segal	7/26/2016

District Resident, Parent & Past School Board Candidate

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST
MEASURE 12016
SANTA BARBARA UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT

PLEASE VOTE YES ON MEASURE I
Don’t be swayed by misinformation.

Every dollar raised by Measure I will be spent on our schools to improve
learning environments that help prepare students for college and careers.

Bonds support school facilities that our students urgently need and
help maintain local property values. The money cannot be taken by
Sacramento politicians or spent on administrator salaries.

Measure I focuses on projects that have the greatest impact on
student learning and has three main goals: to improve student learning
environments, take advantage of a unique opportunity to purchase the
National Guard Armory for community educational purposes, and to
replace run-down portable classrooms at all our junior and senior high
school campuses. Without passage of Measure I none of these things
can occur, and we will not be eligible for any State level matching bond
funds.

In the past, our local secondary school bonds were successfully combined
with State funds to add important enhancements to our local schools, like
the facilities for the Dos Pueblos Engineering Academy, the San Marcos
Health Academy and the Santa Barbara High School Multi-Media Arts
and Design (MAD) Academy. But other critical projects still remain, and
if we put off much-needed repairs, the price tag will rise even higher.
Please vote YES on Measure I to support our community junior highs
and high schools!

The undersigned authors of the Rebuttal to Argument Against ballot
measure 12016 at the Presidential General Election for the Santa Barbara
Unified School District to be held on November 8,2016 hereby state that
such argument is true and correct to the best of their knowledge and
belief.

Isl Gayle Eidelson  Santa Barbara School Board Member	8/8/2016
Isl Pedro Paz  President, Santa Barbara School Board	8/8/2016
Isl Salvador Guerena  Executive Director, United Parents/Padres Unidos	8/8/2016
Isl Cathy Murillo  Santa Barbara City Council Member	8/8/2016

SR 017-20

FULL TEXT
MEASURE 12016
SANTA BARBARA UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT

The following is the full proposition presented to the voters by the Santa Barbara Unified School District.

“SANTA BARBARA UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT SCHOOL REPAIR MEASURE: To repair/upgrade junior and high schools and prepare students
for college/careers by repairing deteriorating classrooms, vocational/ career education facilities, restrooms, plumbing, leaky roofs, asbestos/lead paint,
upgrading school safety, heating/air conditioning updating technology, wiring, science labs, ensuring safe drinking water, repairing, constructing and
acquiring classrooms, sites, facilities/ equipment, shall Santa Barbara Unified School District issue $135,000,000 in bonds at legal rates, requiring
audits, citizens’ oversight, all funds for District schools?

PROJECT LIST

The Board of Education of the Santa Barbara Unified School District is committed to providing a modern learning environment in local schools
with safe, secure and upgraded classrooms which keep pace with 21st Century technologies and learning standards. To that end, in developing the
scope of projects to be funded, the Board evaluated the District’s urgent and critical facility needs, including safety issues, class size, and computer
and information technology, and also prepared a Facility Master Plan (June 2015) which is incorporated herein in its entirety. The District conducted a
facilities evaluation and received public input in developing this Project List. Teachers, staff, community members and the Board have prioritized key
health and safety projects so that the most critical facility needs are addressed. Therefore, in approving this Project List, the Board of Education
determines that the District must:

(i)	Prepare junior high and high school students for college and career;

(ii)	Attract and retain quality teachers:

(iii)	Upgrade deteriorating junior high and high school facilities, including classrooms, restrooms, leaky roofs, drinking water and
plumbing systems to provide safe and modern learning environments that better prepare students for college and careers;

(iv)	Provide up-to-date, 21st Century classrooms and instructional technology in order to retain and attract quality teachers;

(v)	Improve student safety and security systems, including security lighting, fencing, fire alarms and systems and removing
asbestos and lead paint;

(vi)	Adhere to specific fiscal accountability safeguards such as:

(a)	All funds must be spent locally on Santa Barbara junior high and high schools.

(b)	An independent citizens’ oversight committee must be appointed to ensure that all funds are spent only as authorized.

(c)	All expenditures must be subject to annual independent financial and performance audits.

The Project List includes the following types of upgrades and improvements at District schools and sites:

PREPARING STUDENTS FOR COLLEGE AND CAREERS:

Basic School Repair and Upgrade Projects

Goal and Purpose: Many of our local schools are more than 80 years old, including the third oldest high school in California. This measure
will permit basic health and safety improvements to deteriorating local junior and high schools so that students can be better prepared
for college and careers and allow students to learn in safe, healthy classrooms:

•	Repair or replace leaky roofs.

•	Replace portable classrooms and restrooms with permanent structures.

•	Improve vocational and career education facilities.

•	Repair deteriorating libraries and repair or replace other school buildings and construct safe, modern school facilities.

•	Upgrade plumbing systems to improve water conservation.

•	Upgrade science labs.

•	Remove asbestos and lead paint.

•	Upgrade fire safety systems.

•	Ensure safe drinking water for students.

•	Acquire the National Guard Armory facility for educational purposes, including career technical education.

SR 017-21

IMPROVE STUDENT LEARNING:

Instructional Technology Upgrade Projects

Goal and Purpose: Our local students require an education with a strong foundation in math, science and technology to compete for 21st
century careers. This measure will upgrade, science labs, computer and technology labs, and school libraries to ensure students have
individual access to up-to-date technology and that the District can attract and retain quality teachers:

•	Provide and maintain up-to-date technology infrastructure.

•	Upgrade and expand wireless systems, telecommunications, Internet and network connections.

•	Upgrade electrical systems and wiring.

•	Upgrade classrooms, libraries and labs for technology to improve student learning.

The listed projects will be completed as needed. Each project is assumed to include its share of furniture, equipment, architectural, engineering,
and similar planning costs, program/project management, and a customary contingency for unforeseen design and construction costs. In addition
to the listed projects stated above, the Project List also includes the acquisition of a variety of instructional, maintenance and operational equipment;
installation of signage and fencing; payment of the costs of preparation of all facility planning, facility studies, assessment reviews, facility master
plan updates, environmental studies (including environmental investigation, remediation and monitoring), design and construction documentation,
and temporary housing of dislocated District activities. In addition to the projects listed above, the repair and renovation of each of the existing school
facilities may include, but not be limited to: repair and replace heating/boiler, electrical, plumbing, gas, water/sewer, drainage and ventilation systems;
renovate student and staff restrooms; acquire land and facilities; improve outdoor learning spaces; upgrade of facilities for energy conservation; repair
and replace roofs, windows, walls, doors, doorframes and drinking fountains; improve school facilities for disability access; install or upgrade wiring
and electrical systems to accommodate computers, technology and other electrical devices; upgrade or construct classroom and support facilities,
including physical education, kitchens and cafeteria, food services, visual and performing arts buildings, and media centers; repair and replace fire
alarms, emergency communications, intercoms and security systems; resurface or replace hard courts, asphalt, turf and drainage/irrigation systems
and campus landscaping; improve or expand parking and improve parking lot lighting; interior and exterior painting and floor covering; upgrade pools;
replace artificial turf; upgrade classrooms; repair, upgrade or install interior and exterior lighting systems; improve/construct gymnasiums, locker
rooms, fitness areas, athletic fields/stadiums/courts, and play apparatus; improve disability access; replace outdated security fences and security
systems and install security cameras. The upgrading of technology infrastructure includes, but is not limited to, servers, switches, routers, modules,
sound projection systems, upgrade voice-over-IP, call manager and network security/firewall, wireless technology systems and other miscellaneous
equipment and software. The allocation of bond proceeds will be affected by the final costs of each project. The District may delay or not be able to
complete some of the projects listed above. The budget for each project is an estimate and may be affected by factors beyond the District’s control.
Some projects throughout the District may be undertaken as joint use projects in cooperation with other local public or non-profit agencies. The final
cost of each project will be determined as plans and construction documents are finalized, construction bids are received, construction contracts are
awarded and projects are completed. The allocation of bond proceeds may be affected by the District’s receipt of State matching funds and the final
costs of each project. Based on the final costs of each project, certain of the projects described above may be delayed or may not be completed.
Demolition of existing facilities and reconstruction of facilities scheduled for repair and upgrade may occur, if the Board determines that such an
approach would be more cost-effective in creating more enhanced and operationally efficient campuses. Necessary site preparation/restoration or
geological stabilization may occur in connection with new construction, renovation or remodeling, or installation or removal of relocatable classrooms,
including ingress and egress, removing, replacing, or installing irrigation, utility lines, trees and landscaping, relocating fire access roads, and acquiring
any necessary easements, licenses, or rights of way to the property.

Proceeds of the bonds may be used to pay or reimburse the District for the cost of District staff when performing work on or necessary and
incidental to bond projects. Bond proceeds shall only be expended for the specific purposes identified herein. The District shall create an account
into which proceeds of the bonds shall be deposited and comply with the reporting requirements of Government Code § 53410.

FISCAL ACCOUNTABILITY: IN ACCORDANCE WITH EDUCATION CODE SECTION 15272, THE BOARD OF EDUCATION WILL APPOINT
A CITIZENS’ OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE AND CONDUCT ANNUAL INDEPENDENT AUDITS TO ASSURE THAT FUNDS ARE SPENT ONLY
ON DISTRICT PROJECTS AND FOR NO OTHER PURPOSE. THE EXPENDITURE OF BOND MONEY ON THESE PROJECTS IS SUBJECT TO
STRINGENT FINANCIAL ACCOUNTABILITY REQUIREMENTS. BY LAW, PERFORMANCE AND FINANCIAL AUDITS WILL BE PERFORMED
ANNUALLY, AND ALL BOND EXPENDITURES WILL BE MONITORED BY AN INDEPENDENT CITIZENS’ OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE TO
ENSURE THAT FUNDS ARE SPENT AS PROMISED AND SPECIFIED. THE CITIZENS’ OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE MUST INCLUDE, AMONG
OTHERS, REPRESENTATION OF A BONA FIDE TAXPAYERS ASSOCIATION, A BUSINESS ORGANIZATION AND A SENIOR CITIZENS
ORGANIZATION. NO DISTRICT EMPLOYEES OR VENDORS ARE ALLOWED TO SERVE ON THE CITIZENS’ OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE.

NO ADMINISTRATOR SALARIES: PROCEEDS FROM THE SALE OF THE BONDS AUTHORIZED BY THIS PROPOSITION SHALL BE USED
ONLY FOR THE ACQUISITION, CONSTRUCTION, RECONSTRUCTION, REHABILITATION, OR REPLACEMENT OF SCHOOL FACILITIES,
INCLUDING THE FURNISHING AND EQUIPPING OF SCHOOL FACILITIES, AND NOT FOR ANY OTHER PURPOSE, INCLUDING TEACHER
AND SCHOOL ADMINISTATOR SALARIES AND OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES.

SR 017-22

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL
MEASURE J2016
SANTA BARBARA UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS FACILITIES IMPROVEMENT
DISTRICT NO. 1

This measure was placed on the ballot by the Board of Education of the
Santa Barbara Unified School District, acting as the legislative/governing
body of the Santa Barbara Unified School District Elementary Schools
Facilities Improvement District No. 1.

If approved by 55% of the voters voting on the proposition, this measure
authorizes $58,000,000 in bonds to be issued for the Santa Barbara
Unified School District Elementary Schools Facilities Improvement District
No. 1 (District) to provide financing for the specific elementary school
facilities projects listed in the District's Project List. The Project List,
as well as the full text of the measure, is printed in the ballot pamphlet.
None of the proceeds from the sale of bonds may be used for teacher or
administrator salaries or operating expenses.

The bonds and interest thereon would be payable from property taxes
levied on taxable property in the District. These taxes would be in
addition to the property taxes currently levied on taxpayers in the District.
The amount of the increased taxes each year would depend upon the
amount needed to pay the principal and interest on the bonds.

The bond measure includes the following accountability requirements:

A.	A requirement that the proceeds from the bond sale be used
only for the above purposes and not for any other purpose,
including teacher and administrator salaries, and other school
operating expenses.

B.	A list of the specific school facilities projects to be funded and
certification that the school district board has evaluated safety,
class size, and information technology needs in developing that
list.

C.	A requirement that the school district board conduct an annual,
independent performance audit to ensure that the funds have
been spent only on the specific school facilities projects listed
in the Project List.

D.	A requirement that the school district board conduct an annual,
independent financial audit of the bond proceeds.

E.	If the measure is approved, the District Board of Education
will also establish a citizens' oversight committee to monitor
expenditures and ensure that bond proceeds are spent as
promised and specified.

Isl Michael C. Ghizzoni
County Counsel

Dated: July 27,2016

TAX RATE STATEMENT
MEASURE J2016
SANTA BARBARA UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS FACILITIES IMPROVEMENT
DISTRICT NO. 1

An election will be in the Santa Barbara Unified School District (the
“District”) on November 8,2016, to authorize the sale of up to $58,00,000
in bond of the District to finance school facilities as described in the
proposition. If the bonds are approved, the District expects to sell the
bonds in multiple series. Principal and interest on the bonds will be
payable from the process of tax levies made upon the taxable property
in the District. The information regarding tax rates is provided to comply
with Section 9401 of the Election Code of the State of California. This
information is based upon the best estimates and projections presently
available from official sources, upon experience within the District and
other demonstrable factors.

Based upon the foregoing and projections of the assessed valuations
of taxable property in the District, and assuming the entire debt service,
including principal and interest on the bonds, will be paid through property
taxation:

1.	The best estimate from official sources of the tax rate which would
be required to be levied to fund the bond issue during the first fiscal year
after the first sale of bonds, and an estimate of the year in which that tax
rate will apply is $.01315 per $100, or $13.15 per $100,000 of assessed
valuation of all property to be taxed in fiscal year 2017-2018.

2.	The best estimate from official sources of the tax rate which would
be required to be levied to fund the bond issue during the first fiscal year
after the last sale of bonds and an estimate of the year in which that rate
will apply is $0.01315 per $100, or $13.15 per $100,000 of assessed
valuation of all property to be taxed in 2028-2029.

3.	The best estimate from official sources of the highest tax rate which
would be required to be levied to find the bond issue and an estimate of
the year in which that rate will apply is $0.01315 per $100 or $13.15 per
$100,000 of assessed valuation of all property to be taxed in fiscal year
2017-2018.

4.	The best estimate from official sources of the total debt service,
including principal and interest which would be required to be repaid by
tax rates levied on taxable property, if all the bonds are issued, sold and
paid as projected would be $108,046,519.

The attention of all voters is directed to the fact that the
foregoing information is based upon projections and estimates only. The
actual tax rates and the years in which they will apply may vary from those
presently estimated due to variations from these estimates in the timing
of bond sales, the amount of bonds sold, and the market interest rates at
the time of the sales, and the actual assessed valuations over the term of
repayment of the bonds. The date of sale and the amount of bonds sold
any given time will be determined by the District based on its need for
construction funding as well as other factors. The actual interest rates at
which the bonds will be sold will depend on bond market conditions at the
time of sale. Actual assessed valuations at future dates will depend upon
the amount and value of taxable property within the District as determined
by the County Assessor in the County of Santa Barbara in the annual
assessment and the equalization process. Accordingly, the actual tax
rate and the years in which such rates are applicable may vary from those
presently estimated above.

Isl Cary Matsuoka	Dated: June 14,2016

SR 017-23

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
MEASURE J2016
SANTA BARBARA UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS FACILITIES IMPROVEMENT
DISTRICT NO. 1

Vote Yes on Measure J to keep Santa Barbara Unified School District’s
elementary schools among the best in California. Students need a safe,
high-functioning learning environment, one where school facilities provide
ALL students with the opportunity to reach their full potential. Some Santa
Barbara schools are now close to a century old and need upgrades to
meet the same safety and academic standards as newer schools. Having
outstanding schools builds an educated workforce and strong community,
which in turn make Santa Barbara a very desirable place to work and live
for everyone.

Vote YES on J to provide modernized, secure classrooms, science
labs and libraries to continue supporting the highest levels of student
achievement and safety and continue attracting the very best teachers to
Santa Barbara schools.

Vote YES on Measure J to replace decades-old temporary portable
classrooms with permanent structures.

Vote YES on J to replace aging roofs, fire alarms, emergency
communications and security systems, plumbing, and electrical systems,
and modernize heating and cooling systems, upgrade technology
systems to 21st century standards, improve energy efficiency, upgrade
fire safety systems, and remove asbestos and lead paint throughout our
elementary schools.

Vote YES on J to improve traffic and safety around schools for students
who walk or bike to school, improve disability access, and replace
outdated security fences and security systems.

Measure J requires strict taxpayer protections: no funds will be used for
administrators' salaries, pensions or benefits; all funds will remain local
and cannot be taken away by the State or used for other purposes, there
will be an independent Citizen Oversight Committee with mandatory
audits, and a detailed project list will ensure funds are spent as promised.

The undersigned authors of the Argument in Favor of ballot measure
J2016 at the Presidential General Election for the Santa Barbara Unified
School District, SFID. No. 1 to be held on November 8,2016 hereby state
that such argument is true and correct to the best of their knowledge and
belief.

Isl David Cash	7/27/2016

Former Superintendent, SBUSD

Isl Lanny Ebenstein	7/27/2016

Former Board Member, SBUSD

Isl Geoff Green	7/28/2016

CEO, SBCC Foundation

Isl Helene Schneider	7/28/2016

Mayor, City of Santa Barbara

Isl Randy Rowse	7/28/2016

City Council, Santa Barbara

NO ARGUMENT WAS FILED AGAINST
MEASURE J2016

SR 017-24

FULL TEXT
MEASURE J2016
SANTA BARBARA UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT

The following is the full proposition presented to the voters by the Santa Barbara Unified School District.

“SANTA BARBARA ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS REPAIR MEASURE: To repair/upgrade local Santa Barbara elementary schools and support
local students by repairing/replacing deteriorating classrooms, libraries, restrooms, plumbing, leaky roofs, portables, removing asbestos/ lead paint,
ensuring safe drinking water, updating classroom technology/ science labs, acquiring, constructing classrooms/facilities/equipment, shall Santa
Barbara Unified School District issue $58,000,000 in bonds at legal rates, requiring audits/citizen oversight, all funds for local Santa Barbara
elementary schools?”

PROJECT LIST

The Board of Education of the Santa Barbara Unified School District is committed to providing a modern learning environment in local elementary
schools with safe, secure and upgraded classrooms which both support local students and keep pace with 21st Century technologies and learning
standards. To that end, in developing the scope of projects to be funded, the Board evaluated the District’s urgent and critical facility needs, including
safety issues, class size, and computer and information technology, and also prepared a Facility Master Plan (June 2015) which is incorporated
herein in its entirety. The District conducted a facilities evaluation and received public input in developing this Project List. Teachers, staff, community
members and the Board have prioritized key health and safety projects so that the most critical facility needs are addressed. Therefore, in approving
this Project List, the Board of Education determines that the District must:

(i)	Maintain adequate libraries at all elementary schools;

(ii)	Upgrade deteriorating school elementary school facilities, including classrooms, restrooms, leaky roofs, drinking water and

plumbing systems so children can learn in safe and healthy classrooms;

(iii)	Provide up-to-date, 21st Century classrooms and instructional technology in order to support local students;

(iv)	Adhere to specific fiscal accountability safeguards such as:

(a)	All funds must be spent locally on Santa Barbara elementary schools, and no funds will be spent on administrators’ salaries
or pensions.

(b)	An independent citizens’ oversight committee must be appointed to ensure that all funds are spent only as authorized.

(c)	All expenditures must be subject to annual independent financial and performance audits.

The Project List includes the following types of upgrades and improvements at District schools and sites:

IMPROVE STUDENT LEARNING:

Basic Repair Projects That Support Local Students

Goal and Purpose: Since our local elementary classrooms are old, this measure will permit basic improvements to deteriorating
classrooms, restrooms and plumbing systems, science labs, and school libraries, so that children can learn in safe, healthy classrooms,
including:

•	Repair or replace leaky roofs.

•	Replace portable classrooms and	restrooms with	permanent structures.

•	Upgrade plumbing systems to	ensure	safe drinking water.

•	Maintain adequate libraries.

•	Upgrade classrooms.

* * *

The listed projects will be completed as needed. Each project is assumed to include its share of furniture, equipment, architectural, engineering,
and similar planning costs, program/project management, and a customary contingency for unforeseen design and construction costs. In addition
to the listed projects stated above, the Project List also includes the acquisition of a variety of instructional, maintenance and operational equipment;
installation of signage and fencing; payment of the costs of preparation of all facility planning, facility studies, assessment reviews, facility master
plan updates, environmental studies (including environmental investigation, remediation and monitoring), design and construction documentation,
and temporary housing of dislocated District activities. In addition to the projects listed above, the repair and renovation of each of the existing
school facilities may include, but not be limited to: repair and replace heating/boiler, electrical plumbing, gas, drainage, water/sewer and ventilation
systems; renovate student and staff restrooms; upgrade science, technology, engineering, and math labs; improve outdoor learning spaces; upgrade

SR 017-25

of facilities for energy conservation; repair and replace worn-out roofs, windows, walls, doors, doorframes and drinking fountains; improve school
facilities for disability access; install or upgrade wiring and electrical systems to accommodate computers, technology and other electrical devices and
needs; upgrade or construct support facilities; repair and replace fire alarms, emergency communications and security systems; resurface or replace
playground asphalt, playgrounds, turf and irrigation systems and campus landscaping; improve or expand parking and improve parking lot lighting;
interior and exterior painting and floor covering; stabilize hillsides for safety; install artificial turf; upgrade classrooms; repair, upgrade or install interior
and exterior lighting systems; replace outdated security fences and security systems, provide indoor space for assemblies, physical education or
for rainy day lunch. The upgrading of technology infrastructure includes, but is not limited to, servers, switches, routers, modules, sound projection
systems, upgrade voice-over-IP, call manager and network security/firewalI, wireless technology systems and other miscellaneous equipment and
software. The allocation of bond proceeds will be affected by the final costs of each project. The District may delay or not be able to complete some
of the projects listed above. The budget for each project is an estimate and may be affected by factors beyond the District’s control. Some projects
throughout the District may be undertaken as joint use projects in cooperation with other local public or non-profit agencies. The final cost of each
project will be determined as plans and construction documents are finalized, construction bids are received, construction contracts are awarded and
projects are completed. Based on the final costs of each project, certain of the projects described above may be delayed or may not be completed.
Demolition of existing facilities and reconstruction of facilities scheduled for repair and upgrade may occur, if the Board determines that such an
approach would be more cost-effective in creating more enhanced and operationally efficient campuses. Necessary site preparation/restoration or
geological stabilization may occur in connection with new construction, renovation or remodeling, or installation or removal of relocatable classrooms,
including ingress and egress, removing, replacing, or installing irrigation, utility lines, trees and landscaping, relocating fire access roads, and acquiring
any necessary easements, licenses, or rights of way to the property.

Proceeds of the bonds may be used to pay or reimburse the District for the cost of District staff when performing work on or necessary and
incidental to bond projects. Bond proceeds shall only be expended for the specific purposes identified herein. The District shall create an account
into which proceeds of the bonds shall be deposited and comply with the reporting requirements of Government Code § 53410.

FISCAL ACCOUNTABILITY: IN ACCORDANCE WITH EDUCATION CODE SECTION 15272, THE BOARD OF EDUCATION WILL APPOINT
A CITIZENS’ OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE AND CONDUCT ANNUAL INDEPENDENT AUDITS TO ASSURE THAT FUNDS ARE SPENT ONLY ON
DISTRICT PROJECTS AND FOR NO OTHER PURPOSE. THE EXPENDITURE OF BOND MONEY ON THESE PROJECTS IS SUBJECT TO
STRINGENT FINANCIAL ACCOUNTABILITY REQUIREMENTS. BY LAW, PERFORMANCE AND FINANCIAL AUDITS WILL BE PERFORMED
ANNUALLY, AND ALL BOND EXPENDITURES WILL BE MONITORED BY AN INDEPENDENT CITIZENS’ OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE TO
ENSURE THAT FUNDS ARE SPENT AS PROMISED AND SPECIFIED. THE CITIZENS’ OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE MUST INCLUDE, AMONG
OTHERS, REPRESENTATION OF A BONA FIDE TAXPAYERS ASSOCIATION, A BUSINESS ORGANIZATION AND A SENIOR CITIZENS
ORGANIZATION. NO DISTRICT EMPLOYEES OR VENDORS ARE ALLOWED TO SERVE ON THE CITIZENS’ OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE.

NO ADMINISTRATOR SALARIES: PROCEEDS FROM THE SALE OF THE BONDS AUTHORIZED BY THIS PROPOSITION SHALL BE USED
ONLY FOR THE ACQUISITION, CONSTRUCTION, RECONSTRUCTION, REHABILITATION, OR REPLACEMENT OF SCHOOL FACILITIES,
INCLUDING THE FURNISHING AND EQUIPPING OF SCHOOL FACILITIES, AND NOT FOR ANY OTHER PURPOSE, INCLUDING TEACHER
AND SCHOOL ADMINISTRATOR SALARIES AND OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES.

SR 017-26

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL
MEASURE B2016
COUNTY OF SANTA BARBARA

This measure was placed on the ballot by the Board of Supervisors of
the County of Santa Barbara in order to increase the transient occupancy
tax (commonly referred to as the “Hotel Tax”) rate from 10% to 12%.
Although the County tax is collected only in the unincorporated areas
of the County, the law requires that there be a countywide vote on the
question of increasing the tax rate to 12%.

This measure passes if approved by a majority of voters voting thereon.

A YES vote on this measure means:

A majority “yes” vote means that the County of Santa Barbara's
Hotel Tax will increase to 12%.

A NO vote on this measure means:

A majority “no” vote means that the Hotel Tax rate will remain
at 10%.

The California Constitution and the Government Code authorize the
County, upon a majority vote, to levy a general tax. The Revenue and
Taxation Code authorizes the County to levy a tax on the privilege
of occupying a room or rooms, or other living space, in a hotel, inn,
tourist home or house, motel, or other lodging for 30 days or less in the
unincorporated areas of the County.

The transient occupancy tax is a general tax. Revenues from the
transient occupancy tax go into the County’s general fund and may be
used for general governmental purposes, without restriction.

The transient occupancy tax rate is currently at 10%. This measure
would authorize the increase of the transient occupancy tax rate to 12%.
According to the Ordinance, the increased tax rate of 12% would take
effect beginning January 1, 2017. If the measure does not pass, the
transient occupancy tax rate would remain at 10%.

Dated: July 27,2016

Isl Michael C. Ghizzoni
County Counsel

FISCAL IMPACT STATEMENT BY COUNTY AUDITOR-
CONTROLLER
MEASURE B2016
COUNTY OF SANTA BARBARA

In 1963, local governments were granted the power to tax the privilege of
occupying a room or living space in a hotel, motel, inn, tourist home, or
other lodging when rented for 30 days or less. The Transient Occupancy
Tax (also commonly referred to as TOT or hotel bed tax) is collected
by the lodging operator in the unincorporated area of the County then
remitted to the County Treasurer for deposit as general revenue to the
County General Fund.

The measure would increase the existing County of Santa Barbara
unincorporated area Transient Occupancy Tax rate from 10% to
12%. The current transient occupancy tax rate of 10% of the daily
rent generated $9.1 million in fiscal year 2015-2016 for the County. If
this measure is approved, the tax rate would increase to 12% and is
estimated to generate an additional $1.8 million annually. The total of
the tax collected changes on an annual basis as a result of increases or
decreases in lodging rates and lodging occupancy.

The revenue generated by the transient occupancy tax is considered
general revenue for the County General Fund. This tax source is the
third largest discretionary General Fund tax source, following property
taxes and retail sales taxes. This revenue is expended on general County
government services and capital needs for public safety, law and justice,
health services, public assistance, community resources, public facilities,
legislative programs, administrative and general government services.

Isl Theodore A. Fallati, C.P.A.
County Auditor-Controller

SR 017-27

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
MEASURE B2016
COUNTY OF SANTA BARBARA

The transient occupancy tax (TOT), also known as the hotel tourist tax,
is paid by visitors to local lodging establishments, which then helps pay
for services in Santa Barbara County. Measure B would be a modest
increase and the first to the county’s TOT in 26 years. It would allow the
Board of Supervisors to quickly reinvest the money into county priorities
such as parks, roads, libraries, mental health services and public safety.
Each decision made to determine where to spend the additional money
would be completely transparent, easily accessible to the public, and
subject to California’s strict open meeting requirements.

While generating approximately $2 million in new revenue annually,
Measure B would affect only defined short-term lodging properties located
within the unincorporated area of Santa Barbara County, which excludes
the eight incorporated cities. It would also give the unincorporated area
parity with the cities of Santa Barbara, Goleta, Buellton, Carpinteria and
Solvang who all have the same 12% rate proposed in Measure B.

Measure B is a sensible proposal supported by many individuals
and groups from a variety of political perspectives. Please join us in
supporting a modest tax increase to visitors that will have a significant
positive impact on the quality of life for local residents.

The undersigned authors of the Argument in Favor of ballot measure
B2016 at the Presidential General Election for the County of Santa
Barbara to be held on November 8,2016 hereby state that such argument
is true and correct to the best of their knowledge and belief.

Isl Janet Wolf, County Supervisor, Second District 7/28/2016
on behalf of the Board of Supervisors, County of Santa Barbara

Isl Steve Lavagnino, County Supervisor, Fifth District 7/28/2016
on behalf of the Board of Supervisors, County of Santa Barbara

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
MEASURE B2016
COUNTY OF SANTA BARBARA

Beware of political rhetoric from the supporters of Measure B-2016.

Read their argument and the ballot question carefully. They purposely
use the term “such as” to describe the potential programs on which these
tax dollars can be spent. They are NOT telling you that they WILL spend
new taxes on those programs. The County Board of Supervisors had
the option to give you, the voter the choice of approving a tax that would
specifically direct these funds towards your priorities, such as roads,
parks and libraries, but they chose to keep the control for themselves.

The County has an annual budget of over One Billion Dollars and
routinely overspends your tax dollars on pet-projects, employee salaries,
benefits and pension increases and now they are coming to the taxpayer
for more. If the County wants more revenue they should be promoting
business development and eliminating red-tape.

The idea that money collected is new revenue from tourists is FALSE.
These funds are not new, they have been coming to our community for
years, but instead of being collected by county government in the form of
taxes, they have been spent in local restaurants and at businesses, which
in turn helps to create jobs. Measure B-2016 will hurt small businesses
in Santa Barbara County.

Measure B-2016 is not modest, it is a 20% increase over the current
tax rate.

Send a message to County Leaders that you want them to efficiently
spend the tax dollars that they already get. Say “NO” to New Taxes and
vote “NO” on Measure B-2016!

The undersigned author of the Rebuttal to the Argument in Favor of ballot
measure B2016 at the Presidential General Election for the County of
Santa Barbara to be held on November 8, 2016 hereby state that such
argument is true and correct to the best of his knowledge and belief.

Isl Peter L. Adam	8/8/2016

Chairman, Santa Barbara County Board of Supervisors

SR 017-28

ARGUMENT AGAINST
MEASURE B2016
COUNTY OF SANTA BARBARA

Measure B-2016 is a tax increase of TWENTY percent!

We are already over-taxed. The County of Santa Barbara has failed to
reign in excessive employee compensation and out-of-control pensions.

Well-run counties use performance-based budgeting but Santa Barbara
County does not. There is very little accountability for our tax money.

Astute hotel buyers look at how much tax they are paying before they
book rooms and will take their business elsewhere.

Rather than raise taxes, the county should reform regulations in order to
be friendlier to business.

Measure B-2016 is not good for Santa Barbara County because it:

•	Will set off another round of tax increases

•	Will force small “mom & pop” hotel operators out of business

•	Takes away competitive advantage of hotels in the
unincorporated areas

•	Hurts consumers and employers

VOTE NO on the deceptive and wasteful Measure B-2016!

The undersigned authors of the Argument Against ballot measure B2016
at the Presidential General Election for the County of Santa Barbara to be
held on November 8, 2016 hereby state that such argument is true and
correct to the best of their knowledge and belief.

Isl Peter Adam, Chairman	7/28/16

Santa Barbara County Board of Supervisors

Isl Joe Armendariz, Executive Director	7/27/16

on behalf of Santa Barbara County Taxpayers Association

Isl Michael F. Brown, Retired Santa Barbara County CEO 7/28/16

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST
MEASURE B2016
COUNTY OF SANTA BARBARA

If passed, the present Measure would be the first time in over TWENTY
FIVE YEARS that the County's Transient Occupancy Tax has been
increased. Contrary to opponents’ argument citing loss of competitive
advantage, the proposed TOT rate is identical to that of the largest cities
surrounding the vast majority of the County’s lodging establishments.
The County’s budget process and expenditure decisions are extremely
transparent and thorough. For example, in 2015, over forty hours of
public hearing time was devoted solely to the County budget, along with
thousands of pages of public documents.

Several lodgings and hotel establishments have been approved for
development or redevelopment in the past few years and are expected
to come online in the near future. The modest increase would be paid by
visitors to the County and would help pay for services and infrastructure
utilized by County residents.

The undersigned authors of the Rebuttal to the Argument Against ballot
measure B2016 at the Presidential General Election for the County of
Santa Barbara to be held on November 8, 2016 hereby state that such
argument is true and correct to the best of their knowledge and belief.

Isl Steve Lavagnino, County Supervisor, Fifth District	8/8/16

on behalf of the Board of Supervisors, County of Santa Barbara

Isl Janet Wolf, County Supervisor, Second District	8/8/16

on behalf of the Board of Supervisors, County of Santa Barbara

SR 017-29

FULL TEXT
MEASURE B2016
COUNTY OF SANTA BARBARA

ORDINANCE NO. 4961
BOARD OF SUPERVISORS OF THE COUNTY OF SANTA BARBARA, STATE OF CALIFORNIA

ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 32-12 OF THE SANTA BARBARA COUNTY CODE
TO INCREASE THE TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX RATE TO
TWELVE PERCENT (12%)

THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS OF THE COUNTY OF SANTA BARBARA ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS, subject to approval by the electorate:

SECTION I: VOTER APPROVAL OF AMENDMENT TO SANTA BARBARA COUNTY CODE SECTION 32-12. Section 32-12 of the Santa
Barbara County Code is hereby set forth for voter approval to read as follows:

Sec. 32-12. Tax imposed on Transients; Rate; When payable

For the privilege of occupancy in any hotel, each transient is subject to and shall pay a tax in the amount of twelve percent (12%) of the rent charged
by the operator. Such tax constitutes a debt owed by the transient to the County which is extinguished only by payment to the operator or to the
County. The transient shall pay the tax to the operator of the hotel at the time the rent is paid. If the rent is paid in installments, a proportionate share
of the tax shall be paid with each installment. The unpaid tax shall be due upon the transient’s ceasing to occupy space in the hotel. If for any reason
the tax is not paid to the operator of the hotel, the County Tax Collector may require that such tax shall be paid directly to the County Tax Collector.
The tax rate of twelve percent (12%) shall take effect beginning January 1,2017. In the interim period between the November 8,2016 election and
January 1, 2017, for the privilege of occupancy in any hotel, each transient is subject to and shall pay a tax in the amount of ten percent (10%) of
the rent charged by the operator.

SECTION II: NATURE OF TAX. If approved by a majority of the electorate voting on the measure, the ordinance will increase the current
transient occupancy tax rate to twelve percent (12%) of rent charged. The transient occupancy tax is a tax imposed upon transients for the privilege
of occupying defined hotels located within the unincorporated territory of Santa Barbara County. The tax would be collected by hotel operators in the
same manner as the current transient occupancy tax is collected. The collection of the tax from hotel operators would be administered by the Santa
Barbara County Tax Collector as provided in Section 32-15 of the Santa Barbara County Code.

SECTION III: GENERAL TAX. The transient occupancy tax imposed by this ordinance is a general tax within the meaning of Government
Code Section 53721 and Article XI11C, Section 1 (a) of the California Constitution. The revenue generated by this general tax is available for general
governmental purposes. To that end, the Auditor- Controller is instructed to deposit the revenue from the tax into the County General Fund and to
include his estimate of the revenue from this general tax, together with his estimates of other revenue sources, in the tabulation that he is annually
required to prepare by Government Code Section 29060. The revenue from this general tax shall be made available to the Board of Supervisors
for annual appropriation in the County’s budget for any lawful expenditure. Nothing in this ordinance nor in any other ordinance, advisory measure,
resolution, or policy shall be construed as limiting, in any way, the amount or the objects of the appropriations and expenditures that can be made
from the revenue of the tax nor be construed as creating a continuing appropriation.

SECTION IV: EFFECT. Voter approval of this ordinance shall have the effect of increasing the transient occupancy tax.

SECTION V: COMPLIANCE WITH THE CALIFORNIA ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY ACT (CEQA). Pursuant to CEQA Guidelines
Section 15378(b)(4), adoption of this tax increase ordinance as a government funding mechanism is not a project subject to the requirements of
CEQA. Prior to commencement of any project that may result from the expenditure of revenues from this tax increase, any necessary environmental
review required by CEQA shall be completed.

SECTION VI: SEVEFtABILITY. If any provision of this ordinance or the application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the
remainder of the ordinance and the application of such provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

SECTION VII: ELECTION. An election shall be held on November 8,2016, on the issue of increasing the current transient occupancy tax rate
to twelve percent (12%) of rent charged. If the measure is defeated, the transient occupancy tax will remain at the existing transient occupancy tax
rate of ten percent (10%) of rent charged.

SECTION VIII: EFFECTIVE DATE. This ordinance shall take effect immediately upon its adoption by a majority of the electorate voting on the
ordinance at the November 8,2016 general election.

SR 017-30

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
MEASURE D2016
CITY OF SANTA BARBARA

Measure D would enact the Santa Barbara Marijuana Control Act (the "Act”). The Act would establish a new City tax on medical and non-medical
marijuana businesses at a rate of up to 20% of their gross receipts.

The Act declares that it "is enacted solely to raise revenue for general municipal purposes, including but not limited to crime prevention, police services
and zoning enforcement, and is not intended for regulation.”

The Act does not legalize or otherwise allow new medical or non-medical (recreational) marijuana businesses in Santa Barbara.

If the statewide initiative called the "Adult Use of Marijuana Act" is approved by California voters this November, non-medical (recreational) marijuana
use and sales would generally be legalized in California. The Santa Barbara Marijuana Control Act allows the City to tax new non-medical marijuana
businesses that may be legalized by the Adult Use of Marijuana Act.

Under existing City law, up to three storefront medical marijuana dispensaries can be permitted and regulated by the City. These businesses would
also be taxed.

The Act authorizes the City Council to reduce the tax rate for any marijuana businesses or to establish different tax rates for different categories of
marijuana businesses, always subject to the 20% maximum rate. On the other hand, the Act and state law prohibit the City Council from increasing
the tax rate without future voter approval. The City Council may amend or repeal the Act without future voter approval.

The Act's marijuana business tax would apply to the gross receipts from the planting, cultivation, harvesting, transporting, manufacturing, compounding,
converting, processing, preparing, storing, packaging, wholesale, collective or cooperative distribution, provision, and/or retail sales of marijuana and
any ancillary products in the City, whether or not carried on for gain or profit, and whether the business is legal or illegal.

The revenues from the tax imposed by the Santa Barbara Marijuana Control Act will be subject to the annual audit performed by the City's independent
auditor which is reported in the City's Comprehensive Annual Financial Report.

Measure D was placed on the ballot by the City Council of the City of Santa Barbara.

A "yes" vote is a vote to approve the Santa Barbara Marijuana Control Act and impose a new business tax on medical and non-medical marijuana
businesses at a rate of up to 20% of gross receipts.

A "no" vote is a vote not to approve the Santa Barbara Marijuana Control Act and not to impose a new business tax on medical and non-medical
marijuana businesses at a rate of up to 20% of gross receipts.

Isl Ariel Pierre Calonne

City Attorney

City of Santa Barbara

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure D2016. If you desire a copy of the measure please call the City Clerk's Office at
564-5310 and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
MEASURE D2016
CITY OF SANTA BARBARA

NO ARGUMENT WAS FILED AGAINST
MEASURE D2016
CITY OF SANTA BARBARA

The Santa Barbara Marijuana Control Act is a pro-active and pragmatic
measures that will make sure medical marijuana patients can legally and
safely obtain cannabis for their medical needs, provide enhanced local
control to the City in enforcing local and state laws and regulations, and
provide essential resources in preparation for the potential of the legal
adult use of non-medical marijuana in the future.

The City of Santa Barbara is one of the only places on the Central Coast
with storefront medical marijuana dispensaries. It is imperative for both
dispensary owners and patients that access is provided safely and all
regulations pertaining to marijuana cultivation and transport are in
compliance with local and state laws.

In addition, this November, California voters will decide whether adult
non-medical use of marijuana will be permissible under State law. If Prop
64 passes, the City of Santa Barbara will be responsible to ensure that
the new law is safely implemented, through its public safety and code
enforcement departments, as well as working with other partners to
ensure safe access for the adult use of marijuana while also protecting
minors from access and exposure.

The 20% tax is a reasonable rate compared to cigarettes, which has a
total 52% tax rate per pack, and spirits, which has a 27% tax rate per
serving. Why should marijuana have special treatment and be exempted
from taxation?

This measure also permits the City Council to lower or even eliminate the
tax rate for medical marijuana and/or non-medical marijuana in the future,
but cannot raise the rate without additional voter approval.

The Santa Barbara Marijuana Control Act will provide the necessary
resources to enhance public health and safety, ensure safe access to
current legal medical marijuana use, and prepare for its potential future
legal adult use.

Vote YES!

The undersigned proponents of the primary argument in favor of ballot
proposition Santa Barbara Marijuana Control Act at the November 2016
General election for the City of Santa Barbara to be held on November
8,2016 hereby state that this argument is true and correct to the best of
their knowledge and belief.

Isl Helene Schneider, Mayor	7/27/16

Isl Randy Rowse, Council Member	7/27/16

Isl Lesley Wiscomb, Parks & Rec Commissioner	7/27/16

Isl David Cash, Former Superintendent SBUSD	7/28/16

PR-9045-2ENG

SR 017-32

Sample/Practice Ballot - Appendix C

Appendix C

SR 017-33

SAMPLE BALLOT

OFFICIAL BALLOT
PRESIDENTIAL GENERAL ELECTION

SANTA BARBARA COUNTY, CALIFORNIA
NOVEMBER 8, 2016

INSTRUCTIONS TO VOTERS: To vote for a candidate whose name appears on the ballot, FILL IN THE OVAL to
the left of your choice using pencil or blue/black ink. DO NOT vote for more than the number of candidates allowed.
To vote for a qualified write-in candidate, write the person's name in the blank space provided and FILL IN THE
OVAL to the left. To vote on any measure, FILL IN THE OVAL to the left of the word "YES" or the word "NO."

All distinguishing marks or erasures are forbidden. If you tear, deface, or wrongly mark your ballot, return it to the
Elections Official and obtain another.

VOTE LIKE THIS: m
TURN BALLOT OVER - VOTE BOTH SIDES

PARTY-NOMINATED OFFICES

The party label accompanying the name of a
candidate for party-nominated office on the general
election ballot means that the candidate is the official
nominee of the party shown.

PRESIDENT AND VICE PRESIDENT

Vote for One Party

O

O

o

o

o

HILLARY CLINTON

for President
TIM KAINE

for Vice President

GLORIA ESTELA LA RIVA

for President
DENNIS J. BANKS

for Vice President

DONALD J. TRUMP

for President

MICHAEL R. PENCE

for Vice President

GARY JOHNSON

for President
BILL WELD

for Vice President

JILL STEIN

for President
AJAMU BARAKA

for Vice President

Democratic

Peace and
Freedom

Republican, American
Independent

Libertarian

Green

o

VOTER-NOMINATED AND NONPARTISAN
OFFICES

All voters, regardless of the party preference they
disclosed upon registration, or refusal to disclose a
party preference, may vote for any candidate for a
voter-nominated or nonpartisan office. The party
preference, if any, designated by a candidate for a
voter-nominated office is selected by the candidate
and is shown for the information of the voters only. It
does not imply that the candidate is nominated or
endorsed by the party or that the party approves of
the candidate. The party preference, if any, of a
candidate for a nonpartisan office does not appear
on the ballot.

UNITED STATES SENATOR

Vote for One

Q LORETTA L. SANCHEZ

Party Preference: Democratic
United States Congresswoman

Q KAMALA D. HARRIS

Party Preference: Democratic
Attorney General of California

UNITED STATES REPRESENTATIVE
24TH DISTRICT

Vote for One

Q JUSTIN DONALD FAREED

Party Preference: Republican
Small Businessman/Rancher

Q SALUD CARBAJAL

Party Preference: Democratic
Santa Barbara County Supervisor

STATE SENATOR
19TH DISTRICT

Vote for One

Q HANNAH-BETH JACKSON

Party Preference: Democratic
State Senator

Q COLIN PATRICK WALCH

Party Preference: Republican
Entrepreneur/Hospitality Professional

MEMBER OF THE STATE ASSEMBLY
37TH DISTRICT

Vote for One

Q S. MONIQUE LIMON

Party Preference: Democratic
Educator/School Boardmember

Q EDWARD FULLER

Party Preference: None

Planning Commissioner/Businessman

MEASURES SUBMITTED
TO THE VOTERS

STATE

PROPOSITION 51

SCHOOL BONDS. FUNDING FOR K-12 SCHOOL
AND COMMUNITY COLLEGE FACILITIES.
INITIATIVE STATUTE. Authorizes $9 billion in
general obligation bonds for new construction and
modernization of K-12 public school facilities; charter
schools and vocational education facilities; and
California Community Colleges facilities. Fiscal
Impact: State costs of about $17.6 billion to pay off
both the principal ($9 billion) and interest ($8.6
billion) on the bonds. Payments of about $500 million
per year for 35 years.

OYES

ONO

PROPOSITION 52

MEDI-CAL HOSPITAL FEE PROGRAM.

INITIATIVE CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT AND
STATUTE. Extends indefinitely an existing statute
that imposes fees on hospitals to fund Medi-Cal
health care services, care for uninsured patients, and
children's health coverage. Fiscal Impact: Uncertain
fiscal effect, ranging from relatively little impact to
annual state General Fund savings of around $1
billion and increased funding for public hospitals in
the low hundreds of millions of dollars annually.

OYES

ONO

PROPOSITION 53

REVENUE BONDS. STATEWIDE VOTER
APPROVAL. INITIATIVE CONSTITUTIONAL
AMENDMENT. Requires statewide voter approval
before any revenue bonds can be issued or sold by
the state for certain projects if the bond amount
exceeds $2 billion. Fiscal Impact: State and local
fiscal effects are unknown and would depend on
which projects are affected by the measure and what
actions government agencies and voters take in
response to the measure’s voting requirement.

OYES

ONO

PROPOSITION 54

LEGISLATURE. LEGISLATION AND
PROCEEDINGS. INITIATIVE CONSTITUTIONAL
AMENDMENT AND STATUTE. Prohibits Legislature
from passing any bill unless published on Internet for
72 hours before vote. Requires Legislature to record
its proceedings and post on Internet. Authorizes use
of recordings. Fiscal Impact: One-time costs of $1
million to $2 million and ongoing costs of about $1
million annually to record legislative meetings and
make videos of those meetings available on the
Internet.

OYES

O NO

PROPOSITION 55

TAX EXTENSION TO FUND EDUCATION AND
HEALTHCARE. INITIATIVE CONSTITUTIONAL
AMENDMENT. Extends by twelve years the
temporary personal income tax increases enacted in
2012 on earnings over $250,000, with revenues
allocated to K-12 schools, California Community
Colleges, and, in certain years, healthcare. Fiscal
Impact: Increased state revenues~$4 billion to $9
billion annually from 2019-2030-depending on
economy and stock market. Increased funding for
schools, community colleges, health care for low-
income people, budget reserves, and debt
payments.

OYES

ONO

PROPOSITION 56

CIGARETTE TAX TO FUND HEALTHCARE,
TOBACCO USE PREVENTION, RESEARCH,
AND LAW ENFORCEMENT. INITIATIVE
CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT AND
STATUTE. Increases cigarette tax by $2.00 per
pack, with equivalent increase on other tobacco
products and electronic cigarettes containing
nicotine. Fiscal Impact: Additional net state
revenue of $1 billion to $1.4 billion in 2017-18,
with potentially lower revenues in future years.
Revenues would be used primarily to augment
spending on health care for low-income
Californians.

OYES

ONO

PROPOSITION 57
CRIMINAL SENTENCES. PAROLE.
JUVENILE CRIMINAL PROCEEDINGS AND
SENTENCING. INITIATIVE
CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT AND
STATUTE. Allows parole consideration for
nonviolent felons. Authorizes sentence credits
for rehabilitation, good behavior, and education.
Provides juvenile court judge decides whether
juvenile will be prosecuted as adult. Fiscal
Impact: Net state savings likely in the tens of
millions of dollars annually, depending on
implementation. Net county costs of likely a few
million dollars annually.

OYES

ONO

PROPOSITION 58

ENGLISH PROFICIENCY. MULTILINGUAL
EDUCATION. INITIATIVE STATUTE.

Preserves requirement that public schools
ensure students obtain English language
proficiency. Requires school districts to solicit
parent/community input in developing language
acquisition programs. Requires instruction to
ensure English acquisition as rapidly and
effectively as possible. Authorizes school
districts to establish dual-language immersion
programs for both native and non-native English
speakers. Fiscal Impact: No notable fiscal effect
on school districts or state government.

OYES

ONO

PROPOSITION 59

CORPORATIONS. POLITICAL SPENDING.
FEDERAL CONSTITUTIONAL
PROTECTIONS. LEGISLATIVE ADVISORY
QUESTION. Asks whether California's elected
officials should use their authority to propose
and ratify an amendment to the federal
Constitution overturning the United States
Supreme Court decision in Citizens United v.
Federal Election Commission. Citizens United
ruled that laws placing certain limits on political
spending by corporations and unions are
unconstitutional. Fiscal Impact: No direct fiscal
effect on state or local governments.

Shall California's elected officials use all of their
constitutional authority, including, but not limited
to, proposing and ratifying one or more
amendments to the United States Constitution,
to overturn Citizens United v. Federal Election
Commission (2010) 558 U.S. 310, and other
applicable judicial precedents, to allow the full
regulation or limitation of campaign
contributions and spending, to ensure that all
citizens, regardless of wealth, may express their
views to one another, and to make clear that
corporations should not have the same
constitutional rights as human beings?

OYES

ONO

TURN BALLOT OVER TO CONTINUE VOTING

017E-F

SR 017-35

PROPOSITION 60

ADULT FILMS. CONDOMS. HEALTH
REQUIREMENTS. INITIATIVE STATUTE. Requires
adult film performers to use condoms during filming
of sexual intercourse. Requires producers to pay for
performer vaccinations, testing, and medical
examinations. Requires producers to post condom
requirement at film sites. Fiscal Impact: Likely
reduction of state and local tax revenues of several
million dollars annually. Increased state spending
that could exceed $1 million annually on regulation,
partially offset by new fees.

QY ES

O NO

PROPOSITION 66

DEATH PENALTY. PROCEDURES. INITIATIVE
STATUTE. Changes procedures governing state
court challenges to death sentences. Designates
superior court for initial petitions and limits
successive petitions. Requires appointed attorneys
who take noncapital appeals to accept death penalty
appeals. Exempts prison officials from existing
regulation process for developing execution
methods. Fiscal Impact: Unknown ongoing impact on
state court costs for processing legal challenges to
death sentences. Potential prison savings in the tens
of millions of dollars annually.

QY ES

ONO

PROPOSITION 61

STATE PRESCRIPTION DRUG PURCHASES.
PRICING STANDARDS. INITIATIVE STATUTE.

Prohibits state from buying any prescription drug
from a drug manufacturer at price over lowest price
paid for the drug by United States Department of
Veterans Affairs. Exempts managed care programs
funded through Medi-Cal. Fiscal Impact: Potential for
state savings of an unknown amount depending on
(1) how the measure’s implementation challenges
are addressed and (2) the responses of drug
manufacturers regarding the provision and pricing of
their drugs.

PROPOSITION 67

BAN ON SINGLE-USE PLASTIC BAGS.
REFERENDUM. A “Yes” vote approves, and a “No”
vote rejects, a statute that prohibits grocery and
other stores from providing customers single-use
plastic or paper carryout bags but permits sale of
recycled paper bags and reusable bags. Fiscal
Impact: Relatively small fiscal effects on state and
local governments, including a minor increase in
state administrative costs and possible minor local
government savings from reduced litter and waste
management costs.

OYES

ONO

O YES	O	NO

PROPOSITION 62

DEATH PENALTY. INITIATIVE STATUTE. Repeals
death penalty and replaces it with life imprisonment
without possibility of parole. Applies retroactively to
existing death sentences. Increases the portion of
life inmates’ wages that may be applied to victim
restitution. Fiscal Impact: Net ongoing reduction in
state and county criminal justice costs of around
$150 million annually within a few years, although
the impact could vary by tens of millions of dollars
depending on various factors.

OYES

ONO

PROPOSITION 63

FIREARMS. AMMUNITION SALES. INITIATIVE
STATUTE. Requires background check and
Department of Justice authorization to purchase
ammunition. Prohibits possession of large-capacity
ammunition magazines. Establishes procedures for
enforcing laws prohibiting firearm possession by
specified persons. Requires Department of Justice’s
participation in federal National Instant Criminal
Background Check System. Fiscal Impact: Increased
state and local court and law enforcement costs,
potentially in the tens of millions of dollars annually,
related to a new court process for removing firearms
from prohibited persons after they are convicted.

OYES

ONO

PROPOSITION 64

MARIJUANA LEGALIZATION. INITIATIVE
STATUTE. Legalizes marijuana under state law, for
use by adults 21 or older. Imposes state taxes on
sales and cultivation. Provides for industry licensing
and establishes standards for marijuana products.
Allows local regulation and taxation. Fiscal Impact:
Additional tax revenues ranging from high hundreds
of millions of dollars to over $1 billion annually,
mostly dedicated to specific purposes. Reduced
criminal justice costs of tens of millions of dollars
annually.

OYES

ONO

PROPOSITION 65

CARRYOUT BAGS. CHARGES. INITIATIVE
STATUTE. Redirects money collected by grocery
and certain other retail stores through mandated sale
of carryout bags. Requires stores to deposit bag sale
proceeds into a special fund to support specified
environmental projects. Fiscal Impact: Potential state
revenue of several tens of millions of dollars annually
under certain circumstances, with the monies used
to support certain environmental programs.

OYES

ONO

SCHOOL

MEASURE 12016

SANTA BARBARA UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
SANTA BARBARA UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
SCHOOL REPAIR MEASURE: To repair/upgrade
junior and high schools and prepare students for
college/careers by repairing deteriorating
classrooms, vocational/ career education facilities,
restrooms, plumbing, leaky roofs, asbestos/lead
paint, upgrading school safety, heating/air
conditioning, updating technology, wiring, science
labs, ensuring safe drinking water, repairing,
constructing, acquiring classrooms, sites, facilities/
equipment, shall Santa Barbara Unified School
District issue $135,000,000 in bonds at legal rates,
requiring audits, citizens’ oversight, all funds for
District schools?

o BONDS YES O BONDS NO
MEASURE J2016

SANTA BARBARA UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
(SFID) NO.1

SANTA BARBARA ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS
REPAIR MEASURE: To repair/upgrade local Santa
Barbara elementary schools and support students by
repairing/replacing deteriorating classrooms,
libraries, restrooms, plumbing, leaky roofs, portables,
removing asbestos/ lead paint, ensuring safe
drinking water, updating classroom technology/
science labs, acquiring, constructing
classrooms/facilities/equipment, shall Santa Barbara
Unified School District issue $58,000,000 in bonds at
legal rates, requiring audits/citizen oversight, all
funds for local Santa Barbara elementary schools?

o BONDS YES O BONDS NO
COUNTY

MEASURE B2016
SANTA BARBARA COUNTY

In order to have uniformity with local cities’ hotel tax
rates of 12% (Buellton, Carpinteria, Goleta, Solvang,
and Santa Barbara) and for general county purposes
such as law enforcement, parks, recreation, facility
and road maintenance, and others, shall an
ordinance amending Santa Barbara County Code
Section 32-12 increasing the transient occupancy tax
rate (paid by persons renting accommodations for 30
days or less) in the unincorporated areas of the
County from 10% to 12% be adopted?

o YES	O NO

CITY

MEASURE D2016

CITY OF SANTA BARBARA

Shall the ordinance entitled the “Santa Barbara
Marijuana Control Act” which taxes marijuana
businesses to help fund general city services,
including crime prevention, police services, and
zoning enforcement under state and local marijuana
laws, at a rate of 20% of gross receipts for medical
marijuana and non-medical marijuana and
generating estimated revenues of between
$1,100,000 and $2,200,000 annually, with no
termination date, be adopted?

OYES

ONO

TURN BALLOT OVER TO CONTINUE VOTING

017E-B

SR 017-37

DID YOU KNOW?

It's	easy to save water outdoors

By setting your sprinkler timer
to run between 2-7 a.m.,
you avoid water waste
through evaporation.

By simply reducing watering
time by 2 minutes, your plants
will get their fill and
you can avoid runoff.

We are in a

Let's Save Together

dewater wise

IN SANTA BARBARA COUNTY

www.WaterWiseSB.org

It's easy to save water indoors

Reduce shower time from
10 minutes to 5;
SAVE 12.5 GALLONS
each time you shower.

Plug the sink instead of running
the water while shaving and
brushing your teeth;

SAVE UP TO 300 GALLONS
each month

Turn off the water in your
house and check your meter
for a spinning triangle:
MOVEMENT MEANS A LEAK!
Repair leaks to save
water and money.

FP-OPT-1

SR 017-38

PROTECT YOUR RIGHTS

FP-OPT-5

SR 017-39

THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK

FP-IB

SR 017-40

SEPARATE HERE	SEPARATE	HERE

Detach card below to apply for a ballot by mail, fax, or in person

t

DID YOU SIGN AND PLACE YOUR RESIDENCE
ADDRESS ON YOUR APPLICATION?

Mail or take this card to the local elections official or
fax to (805) 681-4003
Deadline: November 1,2016

JOSEPH E. HOLLAND

COUNTY CLERK, RECORDER AND ASSESSOR
REGISTRAR OF VOTERS
PO BOX 61510

SANTA BARBARA CA 93160-1510



..............I'll................I....I.....I.....Irillli'il

TIME OFF FOR VOTING

DIVISION 14. ELECTION DAY PROCEDURES
CHAPTER 1. Privileges of Voters

14000.

(a)	If a voter does not have sufficient time outside of working hours to vote at a statewide election, the voter may, without
loss of pay, take off enough working time that, when added to the voting time available outside of working hours, will enable
the voter to vote.

(b)	No more than two hours of the time taken off for voting shall be without loss of pay The time off for voting shall be only at
the beginning or end of the regular working shift, whichever allows the most free time for voting and the least time off from
the regular working shift, unless otherwise mutually agreed.

(c)	If the employee on the third working day prior to the day of election, knows or has reason to believe that time off will be
necessary to be able to vote on election day the employee shall give the employer at least two working days’ notice that time
off for voting is desired, in accordance with this section.

FROM:

JOSEPH E. HOLLAND
SANTA BARBARA COUNTY
CLERK RECORDER ASSESSOR
PO BOX 61510

SANTA BARBARA CA 93160-1510

ELECTRONIC SERVICE REQUESTED

NONPROFIT ORG.
U.S. POSTAGE
PAID
SANTA ANA, CA
PERMIT NO. 124

Do not use the card below if you are a permanent vote-by-mail voter or live in an all-mail ballot precinct

SEPARATE HERE

SEPARATE HERE

"I

\

YOUR POLLING PLACE
LOCATION

6^

If “Yes” appears below, your
polling place is accessible to
voters with special needs.

YOUR ADDRESS

\

BALLOT

TYPE

017

BEFORE WE CAN SEND YOU A BALLOT,

you must furnish your residence information.

MY RESIDENCE ADDRESS IS___________________

APPLICATION TO VOTE BY MAIL

□

PLEASE MAIL BALLOT TO THIS ADDRESS:	
STREET ADDRESS	

CITY OR TOWN	STATE	ZIP

j j Check here to vote by mail for all elections.

□ Check this box if you choose to OPT OUT of receiving a
Sample Ballot Pamphlet by mail, and plan to view your
sample ballot on-line at www.sbcvote.com.

Check this box to receive election information in Spanish.

Marque esta casilla para recibir informacion de la eleccion en espanol.

I hereby request a Vote By Mail ballot for the
PRESIDENTIAL GENERAL ELECTION
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 2016

I certify under penalty of perjury under the laws of the State of California that the information
on this application is true and correct.

SIGN

AS



REGISTERED IIVIP0RTANT: Each applicant must sign own signature.

IMPORTANT: Previous signature if you have registered by a different
name.

Date ______________________

If a polling place is not shown above go to www.sbcvote.com or call 1-800-SBC-VOTE (1-800-722-8683)

WANT TO VOTE-BY-MAIL?

Fill out, sign, and return the card above to the Registrar of Voters Office by 5pm November 1, 2016.

The card may be returned

•	by mail to Santa Barbara County Registrar of Voters, P.O. Box 61510, Santa Barbara, CA 93160-1510.

•	by fax to (805) 681-4003 or

•	in person to one of the Santa Barbara County Registrar of Voters Offices below.

Santa Barbara Area	Lompoc Area	Santa Maria Area

4440-ACalle Real	401 E. Cypress Avenue,	511 E. Lakeside Parkway,

Room 102	Suite 134

SEPARATE HERE	SEPARATE	HERE