MEASURE AA
SAN FRANCISCO BAY RESTORATION
AUTHORITY

San Francisco Bay Clean Water, Pollution Prevention and
Habitat Restoration Program.

To protect San Francisco Bay for future generations by
reducing trash, pollution and harmful toxins, improving
water quality, restoring habitat for fish, birds and wildlife,
protecting communities from floods, and increasing
shoreline public access, shall the San Francisco Bay
Restoration Authority authorize a parcel tax of $12 per
year, raising approximately $25 million annually for twenty
years with independent citizen oversight, audits, and all
funds staying local?

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF
MEASURE AA

The San Francisco Bay Restoration Authority was created
by the State of California to fund projects to protect and
restore the San Francisco Bay. The Authority does not
receive any dedicated local, state or federal funding to
underwrite such shoreline projects.

The Authority has placed on the ballot Measure AA,
which if approved by two-thirds of the voters voting on
the Measure, would assess a special parcel tax of $12
per year on each parcel of taxable real property wholly or
partially within its jurisdiction, the San Francisco Bay Area
comprising the Counties of Alameda, Contra Costa, Marin,
Napa, San Mateo, Santa Clara, Solano and Sonoma and
the City and County of San Francisco. The parcel tax would
be assessed for a period of 20 years, from July 1, 2017,
through June 30, 2037. According to the Measure, the
parcel tax would raise approximately $25 million annually.

According to the Measure, proceeds would be used to fund
shoreline projects to protect and restore San Francisco
Bay for future generations by (1) reducing trash, pollution
and harmful toxins; (2) improving water quality; (3)
improving habitat for fish, birds and wildlife; (4) protecting
communities from floods; and (5) increasing shoreline
access for public enjoyment.

Projects would be prioritized based on criteria set forth
in the Measure, including but not limited to, their positive
impact on the San Francisco Bay as a whole, in terms of
clean water, wildlife habitat, beneficial use to the residents,
and ensuring projects are funded in each of the San
Francisco Bay Area's nine counties. The Measure ensures
allocation of 50% of the funds to the North Bay, East Bay,
South Bay, and West Bay proportional to their populations,
with the remaining 50% allocated to projects within the
jurisdiction without regard to location.

Proceeds from the parcel tax would be used solely for the
programs set forth in the Measure, would be deposited
in a separate account, would be spent exclusively for
projects in the nine counties comprising the Authority, and
could not be taken by the State, with total administrative
expenditures limited to no more than 5% of the Measure's
proceeds.

An independent, annual audit would be conducted of all
proceeds and expenditures, and an annual report would be
published detailing the amounts deposited and expended

and the status of projects funded under the Measure.

These annual audits and reports would be submitted to an
Independent Citizens Oversight Committee for review, with
the committee's findings posted on the Authority's website.

The parcel tax would appear as a separate item on
residents' property tax bills and would be collected by tax
collectors at the same time as and in the same manner as
other property taxes.

A "yes" vote is a vote to approve a parcel tax of $12 per
parcel on taxable parcels within the San Francisco Bay
Area for a period of 20 years to fund San Francisco Bay
restoration projects.

A "no" vote is a vote not to approve a parcel tax of $12
per parcel on taxable parcels within the San Francisco Bay
Area for a period of 20 years to fund San Francisco Bay
restoration projects.

By:

Kenneth K. Moy

Counsel to the San Francisco Bay
Restoration Authority

Reviewed and revised by Orry R Korb, County Counsel
for the County of Santa Clara

CC-9012-X1

Join Senator Dianne Feinstein and environmental,
business and community leaders from across Contra
Costa County in voting YES on Measure AA for a clean
and healthy San Francisco Bay. This measure is critical
to restoring wetlands and protecting wildlife habitat for
future generations throughout the Bay Area.

San Francisco Bay is a part of all of our lives - whether
we live along the Bay; work there; walk, jog, or visit parks
along its shores; or simply appreciate it as we drive over a
bridge. The Bay also attracts tourists, supports commercial
fishing and attracts quality employers to the region - all of
which help keep our economy strong.

But pollution and other problems have put the health of the
Bay at serious risk. Fish in the Bay are contaminated with
harmful chemicals like PCBs, mercury and pesticides.

Measure AA will restore wetlands throughout the Bay
Area, which provide habitat for fish and wildlife and filter
out pollutants from water to reduce toxins that threaten the
ecosystem. Wetlands also act as a natural barrier against
flooding and provide urban recreational open space, a
resource we all cherish.

Voting YES on AA will:

•	Reduce trash, pollution and harmful toxins in the
Bay

•	Improve water quality

•	Restore habitat for fish, birds and wildlife

•	Protect communities from floods

•	Increase shoreline public access

Measure AA includes important fiscal accountability
protections:

•	All funds must stay in the Bay Area to be used only
on local habitat restoration and wildlife protection
projects

•	An independent citizens’ oversight committee will
oversee funds to ensure they are spent properly

•	Independent audits and annual public reports
ensure transparency

Passing this critical measure will ensure that our children
and grandchildren inherit a clean and healthy San
Francisco Bay. Join us—vote YES on AA to protect
San Francisco Bay, our greatest natural treasure.
www.vesonaaforthebav.com

Steve Glazer, Senator

Tony Thurmond, Assemblymember

John Gioia, Contra Costa County Supervisor

David Lewis, Executive Director, Save the Bay

Ron Brown, Retired Executive Director, Save Mount

Diablo

ARGUMENT AGAINST
MEASURE AA

Preserving the Bay and ensuring clean water are important;
so are honesty and accountability. Measure AA is more
about filling politicians’ pockets than it is about helping the
environment.

Renters, homeowners and small business owners
OPPOSE Measure AA because:

•	Measure AA doesn’t nail down how money will
be spent. In fact, Section 5.A. says the Authority
Board can “amend this measure by majority vote.”
This is like TAXPAYERS WRITING A BLANK
CHECK.

•	Measure AA ensures POLITICS, NOT SCIENCE,
DRIVES DECISIONS. There is no requirement for
a scientific advisory board to evaluate proposed
projects or assess project accomplishments.
Grants will be based on politics instead of objective
priorities.

•	Measure AA is giving money to politicians that it
TAKES FROM THE POOR. Google, Facebook
and Apple Computer would pay the same tax as
the owner of a one-bedroom condominium.

•	High property taxes DRIVE UP HOUSING COSTS
FOR RENTERS AND HOMEOWNERS. Many
people are unemployed, underemployed, or
financially stretched and CANNOT AFFORD TO
PAY MORE.

•	If this tax passes, politicians will ask for more - but
they DON’T WANT THE PUBLIC HAVING A SAY
in how their money is spent.

Our environment needs help, and we need to speak up for
it. We need to speak up for ourselves.

Measure AA doesn't help ~ it's a sham. Demand
accountability from politicians and VOTE NO!

CONTRA COSTA TAXPAYERS ASSOCIATION

Jack Weir, President, Contra Costa Taxpayers Association

CC-9012-X2

We value clean water and a healthy environment, so we
need to demand genuine protection for them. Measure
AA represents a lot of money, but very little will go to the
wetlands. The real goal of Measure AA is to raise a lot of
money for politicians to spend any way they want.

Residents oppose Measure AA because:

GIVES A BLANK CHECK TO POLITICIANS.

•	There’s no spending plan, only “example”
projects.

•	No one really knows how money would be spent.

•	Measure AA gives politicians power to change the
law, to spend money however they decide.

TRUE COSTS ARE HIDDEN.

•	The Authority plans to issue $1.5 billion in debt, to
be added to our tax bills.

•	Repaying this debt, with interest, would cost our
children and grandchildren up to $3 BILLION.

FUNDS COULD GET TIED UP INDEFINITELY.

•	Wetlands restoration requires coordination
among many agencies.

•	The San Francisco Bay is a jungle of jurisdictions
and regulations.

•	Currently there is no plan to efficiently coordinate
efforts among federal, state and local agencies.

•	Reform must come first.

WETLAND RESTORATION INCREASES FLOOD
RISKS.

•	Measure AA doesn’t identify costs for flood
mitigation.

•	Most money would be needed to build new
levees, particularly in the South Bay.

•	All Bay Area taxpayers shouldn’t pay for Silicon
Valley’s flood protection.

Saving the Bay is too important for us to get wrong.
Measure AA is a joke.

Vote NO to tell politicians that you expect SMART PLANS
and REAL CHANGE for your tax dollars.

CONTRA COSTA TAXPAYERS ASSOCIATION

Jack Weir, President, Contra Costa Taxpayers Association

REBUTTAL TO THE ARGUMENT AGAINST
MEASURE AA

The argument against Measure AA relies upon
misinformation. We’ve researched the facts:

Measure AA includes a detailed, equitable allocation
formula that ensures Contra Costa County will benefit. Half
of Measure AA funds will be dedicated geographically, with
$90 million guaranteed to the East Bay. The other half will
be distributed on a competitive basis throughout the Bay
Area.

Measure AA requires that all projects competing for funding
must demonstrate they provide solid benefits in one of
four program areas: Safe, Clean Water and Pollution
Prevention; Fish, Bird and Wildlife Habitat; Integrated Flood
Protection; or Shoreline Public Access. Every dollar will be
spent making San Francisco Bay cleaner and healthier.

The baseline funding commitment of $1 per month that
Measure AA levies on all parcels represents the minimum
we all can do to ensure the shared benefits of a clean
and healthy bay are preserved for our children and
grandchildren.

This proposal is rooted deeply in environmental science.
Measure AA’s wetlands restoration goals are based on
scientific studies (baylandsgoals.org). Bay scientists and
wetlands engineers on the San Francisco Bay Restoration
Authority's Advisory Committee and Governing Board and
preeminent scientific organizations - like the Bay Institute
and The Nature Conservancy - have endorsed Measure
AA.

Join scientists, as well as environmental, community and
business leaders, in voting YES on Measure AA to protect
the natural wonder of our region - the San Francisco Bay.

Mark DeSaulnier, Congressman

Amy R. Worth, Orinda City Council Member

Jael Myrick, Richmond City Councilmember

Kristine Zeigler, The Nature Conservancy

Jim Wunderman, President & CEO, Bay Area Council

FULL TEXT OF
MEASURE AA

THE SAN FRANCISCO BAY CLEAN WATER,
POLLUTION PREVENTION AND HABITAT
RESTORATION MEASURE

The people of the San Francisco Bay Restoration Authority
do ordain as follows:

Section 1. Findings and Purpose.

Over the last century, landfill and toxic pollution have
had a massive impact on San Francisco Bay (sometimes
referred to herein as the “Bay”). It is not too late to reverse
this impact and restore the Bay for future generations.
To meet that objective, in 2008, state law established the
San Francisco Bay Restoration Authority (the “Authority”),
to raise and allocate resources for the restoration,
enhancement, protection, and enjoyment of wetlands and
wildlife habitats in the San Francisco Bay and along its
shoreline.

The purpose of the San Francisco Bay Clean Water,
Pollution Prevention and Habitat Restoration Measure (the
“Measure”) is to protect and restore San Francisco Bay to
benefit future generations by reducing trash, pollution, and
harmful toxins, improving water quality, restoring habitat for
fish, birds, and wildlife, protecting communities from flood
and increasing shoreline public access and recreational
areas.

Section 2. Funding of San Francisco Bay Clean
Water, Pollution Prevention and Habitat Restoration
Expenditure Plan.

Subject to voter approval, the Authority hereby establishes
a special parcel tax (the “Special Tax”) the proceeds of
which shall be used solely for the purpose of supporting
the programs and priorities and other purposes set forth
in this Measure. The Special Tax shall be levied at a rate
of twelve dollars ($12) per parcel within the jurisdiction of
the Authority, which consists of the Counties of Alameda,
Contra Costa, Marin, Napa, San Mateo, Santa Clara,
Solano and Sonoma and the City and County of San
Francisco (such nine counties, collectively, the “San
Francisco Bay Area”). The Special Tax shall be levied
annually for a total of twenty (20) years, commencing July
1, 2017 and ending June 30, 2037.

The Special Tax shall be levied on each parcel of taxable
property within the San Francisco Bay Area, and shall be
collected by the tax collectors of each county (including the
City and County of San Francisco) in the San Francisco
Bay Area (the “Tax Collectors”) at the same time as, and
along with, and will be subject to the same penalties as

general,	ad valorem taxes collected by the Tax Collectors.

The Special Tax and any penalty shall bear interest at
the same rate as the rate for unpaid ad valorem property
taxes until paid. Any Special Tax levied shall become a
lien upon the properties against which taxes are assessed
and collectible as herein provided. The Special Tax shall
appear as a separate item on the tax bill.

All property that is otherwise exempt from ad valorem
property taxes in any year shall also be exempt from
the Special Tax in such year. The Authority shall adopt
procedures that set forth any clarifications and exemptions
to address unique circumstances and any procedure for
claimants seeking an exemption, refund, reduction or
recomputation of the Special Tax.

Section 3. San Francisco Bay Clean Water, Pollution
Prevention and Habitat Restoration Expenditure Plan.

The revenues from the Special Tax set forth in Section 2
above shall be used solely for the purpose of supporting
programs and priorities and purposes set forth in this
Measure, including the following:

A.	Program Descriptions

Under this Measure, the Authority may fund projects
along the Bay shorelines within the Authority’s
jurisdiction, which consists of the Counties of Alameda,
Contra Costa, Marin, Napa, San Mateo, Santa Clara,
Solano and Sonoma and the City and County of San
Francisco. The shorelines include the shorelines of
San Francisco Bay, San Pablo Bay, Carquinez Strait,
Suisun Bay, and most of the Northern Contra Costa
County Shoreline to the edge of the Delta Primary
Zone. These projects shall advance the following
programs:

1.	Safe, Clean Water and Pollution Prevention
Program

The purpose of this program to be funded under the
Measure is to remove pollution, trash and harmful
toxins from the Bay in order to provide clean water for
fish, birds, wildlife, and people.

a.	Improve water quality by reducing pollution and
engaging in restoration activities, protecting public
health and making fish and wildlife healthier.

b.	Reduce pollution levels through shoreline cleanup
and trash removal from the Bay.

c.	Restore wetlands that provide natural filters and
remove pollution from the Bay’s water.

d.	Clean and enhance creek outlets where they flow
into the Bay.

2.	Vital Fish, Bird and Wildlife Habitat Program

The purpose of this program to be funded under the
Measure is to significantly improve wildlife habitat
that will support and increase vital populations offish,
birds, and other wildlife in and around the Bay.

a.	Enhance the San Francisco Bay National Wildlife
Refuge, shoreline parks and open space preserves,
and other protected lands in and around the Bay,
providing expanded and improved habitat for fish,
birds and mammals.

b.	Protect and restore wetlands and other Bay and
shoreline habitats to benefit wildlife, including
shorebirds, waterfowl and fish.

c.	Provide for stewardship, maintenance and
monitoring of habitat restoration projects in and
around the Bay, to ensure their ongoing benefits
to wildlife and people.

3.	Integrated Flood Protection Program

The purpose of this program to be funded under
the Measure is to use natural habitats to protect
communities along the Bay’s shoreline from the risks
of severe coastal flooding caused by storms and high
water levels.

a.	Provide nature-based flood protection through
wetland and habitat restoration along the Bay’s
edge and at creek outlets that flow to the Bay.

b.	Build and/or improve flood protection levees
that are a necessary part of wetland restoration
activities, to protect existing shoreline communities,
agriculture, and infrastructure.

4.	Shoreline Public Access Program

The purpose of this program to be funded under the
Measure is to enhance the quality of life of Bay Area
residents, including those with disabilities, through
safer and improved public access, as part of and
compatible with wildlife habitat restoration projects in
and around the Bay.

a.	Construct new, repair existing and/or replace
deteriorating public access trails, signs, and
related facilities along the shoreline and manage
these public access facilities.

b.	Provide interpretive materials and special outreach
events about pollution prevention, wildlife habitat,
public access, and flood protection, to protect
the Bay’s health and encourage community
engagement.

B.	Additional Allocation Criteria and Community
Benefits

1.	The Authority shall ensure that the Measure’s

revenue is spent in the most efficient and effective
manner, consistent with the public interest and in
compliance with existing law. The Authority shall
give priority to projects that:

a.	Have the greatest positive impact on the Bay as
a whole, in terms of clean water, wildlife habitat
and beneficial use to Bay Area residents.

b.	Have the greatest long-term impact on the
Bay, to benefit future generations.

c.	Provide for geographic distribution across
the region and ensure that there are projects
funded in each of the nine counties in the
San Francisco Bay Area over the life of the
Measure.

d.	Increase impact value by leveraging state
and federal resources and public/private
partnerships.

e.	Benefit economically disadvantaged
communities.

f.	Benefit the region’s economy, including
local workforce development, employment
opportunities for Bay Area residents, and
nature-based flood protection for critical
infrastructure and existing shoreline
communities.

g.	Work with local organizations and businesses
to engage youth and young adults and assist
them in gaining skills related to natural resource
protection.

h.	Incorporate monitoring, maintenance and
stewardship to develop the most efficient
and effective strategies for restoration and
achievement of intended benefits.

i.	Meet the selection criteria of the Coastal
Conservancy’s San Francisco Bay Area
Conservancy Program and are consistent
with the San Francisco Bay Conservation
and Development Commission’s coastal
management program and with the San
Francisco Bay Joint Venture’s implementation
strategy.

2.	The Authority shall ensure that 50% of the total
net revenue generated during the 20-year term of
the Special Tax is allocated to the four Bay Area
regions, defined as the North Bay (Sonoma, Marin,
Napa and Solano Counties), East Bay (Alameda
and Contra Costa Counties), West Bay (City
and County of San Francisco and San Mateo
County) and South Bay (Santa Clara County) in
proportion to each region’s share of the Bay Area’s
population, as determined in the 2010 census,
and consistent with the priorities set forth in this
section. As a result, each region will receive the
following minimum percentage of total net revenue
generated during the 20-year term of the Special
Tax: North Bay: 9%, East Bay: 18%, West Bay:

11%, South Bay: 12%. The remaining revenue
shall be allocated consistent with all other
provisions of this Measure.

3.	The Authority shall conduct one or more public
meetings annually to gain public input on selection
of projects under this Measure. All actions,
including decisions about selecting projects for
funding, will be made by the Authority in public
meetings with advance notice and with meeting
materials made available in advance to the public.

4.	The Authority may accumulate revenue over
multiple years so that sufficient funding is available
for larger and long-term projects. All interest
income shall be used solely to support programs
and priorities set forth in this Measure.

5.	No Special Tax proceeds shall be used for
campaign advocacy.

6.	No more than 5% of the Special Tax proceeds
generated in any given fiscal year may be used
by the Authority for general government purposes
in such fiscal year, including to administer the
projects funded under this Measure. Any unused
funds may be carried over for use in subsequent
fiscal years.

7.	The Authority shall have the right, power and
authority to pledge Special Tax proceeds to the
payment of bonds of the Authority or another
public agency (including, but not limited to, a joint
powers authority created pursuant to Article 1 of
the Joint Exercise of Powers Act (Government
Code Section 6500 et seq.)), and use Special Tax
proceeds to pay debt service on such bonds and
the costs of issuance related thereto.

C.	Accountability and Oversight

In order to ensure accountability, transparency and

public oversight of funds collected and allocated

under this Measure and comply with State law, all of

the following shall apply:

1.	The specific purpose of the Special Tax shall be
to support only programs and priorities and other
purposes listed in this Measure. The Special
Tax proceeds shall be applied only for specific
purposes of this Measure and shall be spent only
in accordance with the procedures and limitations
set forth in this Measure.

2.	A separate account shall be created by the
Authority into which all Special Tax proceeds must
be deposited. The Authority shall commission an
independentannual audit of all revenues deposited

in, and all expenditures made from, the separate
account and publish annual financial statements.

3.	All Special Tax revenue, except as set forth in
Section 3.B.6 above, shall be spent on projects
for the benefit of the San Francisco Bay Area, and
shall not be taken by the State.

4.	The Authority shall prepare annual written reports
showing (i) the amount of funds collected and
expended from Special Tax proceeds and (ii)
the status of any projects or programs required
or authorized to be funded from the proceeds of
the Special Tax, as identified above. The report
shall comply with Government Code section
50075.3, be posted on the Authority's website,
and be submitted to the Bay Restoration Advisory
Committee, established pursuant to Government
Code section 66703.7 (the “Advisory Committee”),
for review and comment.

5.	The Advisory Committee shall provide advice to
the Authority on all aspects of its activities under
this Measure to ensure maximum benefit, value,
and transparency. Advisory Committee meetings
will be announced in advance and will be open
to the public. The responsibilities of the Advisory
Committee shall include, but shall not be limited
to: (a) advising the Authority about implementation
of this Measure; and (b) making recommendations
regarding expenditure priorities under this
Measure.

6.	The Authority shall appoint six members of the

public to an Independent Citizens Oversight
Committee that shall:	(a)	annually review the

Authority’s conformance with the Measure; (b)
review the Authority’s audits and expenditure and
financial reports; and (c) publish an annual report of
its findings, which shall be posted on the Authority’s
website. The six members shall include residents of
the North Bay, East Bay, West Bay, and South Bay,
as defined in Government Code 66703(a), who are
experts in water quality, pollution reduction, habitat
restoration, flood protection, improvement of public
access to the Bay, or financing of these objectives.
No person may serve on the Independent Citizens
Oversight Committee who (a) is an elected official
or government employee, or (b) has had or
could have a financial interest in decisions of the
Authority as defined by Government Code section
87103 and the Fair Political Practices Commission.

Section 4. Establishment of Appropriation Limit.

Pursuant to Article Xlll-B of the California Constitution
and section 66704.05(b)(2) of the Government Code,
the appropriation limit of the Authority shall be set by the
total revenues actually received by the Authority from the

proceeds of the Special Tax levied in fiscal year 2017-18,
as adjusted each fiscal year thereafter for the estimated
change in the cost of living, population and number of
parcels on which the Special Tax is levied (such estimate
to be determined by the Governing Body of the Authority
and be conclusive for all purposes after made). The
appropriation limit may be further adjusted by any other
changes that may be permitted or required by Article XIIl-B
of the California Constitution.

Section 5. Amendments and Severability.

A.	The Governing Board of the Authority shall be
empowered to amend this Measure by majority vote of
its members to further the purposes of this Measure, to
conform the provisions of this Measure to applicable State
law, to modify the methods of levy and collection of the
Special Tax, or to assign the duties of public officials under
this Measure.

B. If any part of this Measure is held to be invalid for
any reason, such decision shall not affect the remaining
portions of this Measure and the voters declare that they
would have passed the remainder of this Measure as if
such invalid portion were not included.