Official Use Only: Date Stamp

BALLOT MEASURE SUBMITTAL FORM

Jurisdiction Name: City of Piedmont	Election Date: June 7, 2016
BALLOT TITLE & QUESTION TO BE PRINTED	

Note: The information as it appears within the text boxes will be printed on the ballot. The 75 word count limit begins
in the ballot title (if a title is provided); otherwise, the count begins in the ballot question.

Insert Ballot Title here (if applicable):

Insert Ballot Question here:

To maintain essential police, fire, and paramedic service, to prevent the reduction in maintenance in
City parks, greenspaces and other public areas, and to prevent the loss of youth, family, and senior
recreational and safety services, shall the City of Piedmont continue to authorize a parcel tax, replacing
the existing Municipal Services Tax, as is more specifically set forth in Ord. 721 N.S. which is on file with
the Piedmont City Clerk?

TYPE OF MEASURE

PERCENTAGE NEEDED TO PASS

EE Regular Measure 2T Parcel Tax
HE Bond Measure EE Charter Amendment

□ 50% + 1
EE Other:

□ 66.6667%

2/3

FULL TEXT OPTION

Full Text to be printed in the Voter Information Pamphlet:

YES (note: must submit separate copy of Full Text along with this form)
□ NO - A Full Text was not submitted
EE NO - Do not print, but it’s available to the public at:

AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE

The authorized representative/contact person should be the person who wjli be receiving the typeset proofs

Print Name:!

Signatu

Date: 2016-03-11

CONTACT INFORMATION (for office use)

Phone #: I

CONTACT INFORMATION (forpublic)

Phone #: (510) 420-3040

E-Mail:

E-Mail: jtulloch@ci.piedmont.ca.us

Website: www.ci.piedmont.ca.us

12/2015

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
MEASURE

Measure______proposes to adopt an Ordinance that amends Chapter 20B of the Piedmont

Municipal Code authorizing the collection of a Municipal Services Tax ("Tax"), which has been
collected in the City of Piedmont since 1981. Revenue from the Tax goes to the City's General
Fund and is used to finance Municipal Services such as police and fire protection, street
maintenance, building regulations, library services, recreation, parks maintenance, planning, and
public works.

The current Tax will expire on June 30, 2017. Measure______authorizes the continuation

of the Tax until June 30, 2021, and proposes to increase the maximum Tax rate in accordance
with the rate schedule set forth in Section 20B.4 of the proposed Ordinance. The maximum Tax
rate will vary by parcel depending on parcel size and the nature of use (i.e.,

residential/commercial). Measure_____would correspondingly increase the appropriations limit

under Article XIIIB of the California Constitution.

Pursuant to Measure______, the City can only levy the Tax if in any fiscal year the City

Council determines that municipal services are necessary for the public good, and that the cost of
providing such services will exceed the amount of funds generated from revenue sources other
than the Tax. The Tax collected during that tax year, if any, may not exceed the maximum Tax
rate established in the Ordinance.

Under Measure_______the maximum Tax rate will be adjusted on an annual basis by an

amount equal to the percentage increase or decrease in the Consumer Price Index for the San
Francisco-Oakland-San Jose, California area, as published by the United States Department of
Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics.

Measure______authorizes the Tax to be collected by the Tax Collector of the County of

Alameda.

A “Yes” vote on Measure_______means the voter is in favor of continuing the existing tax

with the proposed increase.

A “No” vote on Measure________means the voter is opposed and the tax would no longer be

collected.

Two-thirds (66%) of the qualified voters casting a vote must vote “yes” for Measure___

to pass.

Measure_____, or any provision thereof, may only be amended or repealed by approval of a

two-thirds majority of the voters voting on the proposition at any initiative or referendum
election.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure_____. The full text of Measure

____is printed in the Voter’s Information Pamphlet and is also available on the City of Piedmont's

website at: http://www.ci.piedmont.ca.us.

Michelle Marchetta Kenyon, City Attorney

Measure XXX provides funding to maintain Piedmont's excellent public services. This is not a new tax. For
the past 36 years. Piedmont voters have approved the Municipal Services Tax ("the Parcel Tax'). The
Parcel Tax is indispensable to maintaining the quality services Piedmont residents appreciate. These
services include responsive police and fire, attractive parks and robust recreational programs. Our City
looks and works as well as it does because of the Parcel Tax.

The Budget Advisory and Financial Planning Committee ("BAFPC") recommends that the Parcel Tax be
renewed and increased by approximately $150 per parcel. The BAFPC said, 'The continuation of the
Parcel Tax at least at its current level is critical for the City to continue to provide the services that
Piedmont residents enjoy today." The BAFPC added, 'The committee believes the City is still significantly
underfunding its facilities maintenance and replacements needs." To meet these needs, the Parcel Tax
should be increased. The Parcel Tax was last increased in 2004.

Piedmont needs to address long-standing deferred maintenance of its facilities and update the City's aging
infrastructure. The City must take on projects like replacing old wiring in the police and fire stations. Our
technology infrastructure is antiquated, unreliable and insufficient for the 21st century. This isn't about
new facilities. This isn't about increasing staff or benefits. This is about plumbing, roofs, safety and
electrical. This is about the nuts and bolts of the City. We must act now to make repairs and
improvements to ensure the City can support its residents.

Many recommendations of the 2011 Municipal Tax Review Committee were implemented that
strengthened City's finances, controlled costs and addressed long-term liabilities. Now we need to follow
the BAFPC recommendations and invest in Piedmont's facilities. Unanimously approved by the Piedmont
City Council. Vote Yes on XXX.

Signed

John Y. Chiang, Former Mayor

Bill Hosier, Chair, Budget and Financial Planning Committee

Valerie Matzger, Former Mayor

Andrea Swenson, President, PUSD Board of Education

Jeff Wieler, Vice Mayor

This proposition not simply a renewal of Piedmont's Municipal Services Special Tax, it
adds a 30% increase. The need for such a dramatic increase has not been substantiated
by the City Council nor by the Budget Advisory Financial Planning Committee's report.
That report severely underestimates expected revenue from property transfer taxes and
the post-transfer reassessments which will continue to increase property tax revenue.
Piedmont's rising property values assure rising tax revenues. There is no need to raise
taxes at this time.

The report actually admits that it discounted the facts that (1) retirement of the City
pension "side fund" debt in FY 2020 will free up additional cash resources to cover
projected increased expenses, and (2) the significantly over-funded Police and Fire
Pension Fund can be rededicated to Other Post-Employment Benefits expenses. Raising
our parcel tax is unjustified. Even if the unlikely pessimistic revenue estimates turn out
to be true, Piedmont's Reserve Fund, currently funded near its legal limit, can make up
the difference until a truly justified parcel tax measure goes before the voters.

This proposition implies that without passage, municipal services would be reduced. Yet,
it fails to detail how much new tax revenue would go to facility maintenance, how much
to pension liabilities, and how much to unspecified services, compared to the current
budget.

Piedmont has one of the highest tax rates in the state. The current tax continues until
June, 2017. At this time, there is no need to scare Piedmonters with service
reduction. Vote against this proposition now, so that a more reasonable and justified
parcel tax measure can be considered next time.

Signed by:

Bruce Joffe, Piedmont Resident

Rick Schiller, Piedmont Resident

Rebuttal to arguments against the parcel tax

The Parcel Tax opponents are wrong and miss the point. The 7 year projections show
property tax revenue growing at the same pace as the last 10 years. Transfer tax has
always been volatile. The 2011 MTRC recommended against projecting a growing
transfer tax and this year transfer taxes are running 30% behind last year through
February. Opponents are betting that real estate prices will continue to increase and that
large numbers of homes continue to sell. This is unsupportable given history and an
irresponsible way to plan for the future.

The City Council took important steps to improve the City’s financial condition:
refinancing the sidefund, establishing prudent reserves and managing expenses. The
opponents misrepresent the BAFPC report, arguing that sufficient funds are available to
maintain services and make needed investments in the City’s infrastructure. This isn’t
true. The shortfall is significant and growing. The BAFPC, and prior tax committees,
strongly recommended the City reduce this shortfall and take immediate steps to address
the City’s aged infrastructure in a planned and affordable manner.

BART’s recent problems show the impact of deferred maintenance, obsolescence and
making patch work fixes. Piedmont must avoid those problems. City services will be
degraded and unreliable without renewed investment in the city’s infrastructure. These
aren’t scare tactics. This is just about basic arithmetic and what it takes to repair and
maintain Piedmont. And the 30%: that’s about $150 per parcel. This is an investment
in your City and its future.

The undersigned proponent or author of the rebuttal to the argument Against Measure F
at the Special Municipal Election for the City of Piedmont to be held on June 7, 2016
hereby state that such rebuttal argument is true and correct to the best of his/her/their
knowledge and belief.

Signed

John Y. Chiang, Former Mayor

Bill Hosier, Chair, Budget and Financial Planning Committee

Teddy King, Councilmember,

Andrea Swenson, President, PUSD Board of Education

Tim Rood, Councilmember

Measure F Rebuttal to Proponent Argument

------------Start-------

An honest proposition would inform the voter of a tax increase. Measure F masquerades as a
simple renewal, but contains a 30% increase.

To justify this tax increase the City underestimates new revenue coming into Piedmont from
ever increasing tax reassessments. And growth rates in the transfer tax are well above what
the BAFPC projects. The BAFPC estimates the transfer tax at $2.8M but the last two years are
$3.9M and $4M. And this spring the average Piedmont sale price is $2.75M indicating a record
revenue season is again likely. This healthy revenue stream is back-stopped by a City $4.5M
reserve. Pension funds with a $10M surplus, and the Facilities Maintenance Fund at $1.94M. In
2010 reserves were 13%. In 2015 they are 21%.

The 2011 Municipal Tax Review Committee recommended the city undertake long-term
financial planning and facilities maintenance, streamline city services, and cap employee and
retiree benefit levels. Instead Measure F increases taxes and spending on facilities without
having the other goals in place. Rather than asking for a tax, the City should continue to press
for increased cost sharing and capping of employee benefits costs in this summer's contract
negotiations.

We support improving Piedmont's facilities but Piedmont's taxes are among the State's
highest. Let's not add an unneeded increase to the tax burden of young families and seniors.

Vote NO on Measure F.

------encl--------------

"The undersigned proponent or author(s) of the rebuttal to the argument Against
Measure F at the Special Municipal Election for the City of Piedmont to be held on June 7,

2016 hereby state that such rebuttal argument is true and correct to the best of his/hcr/their
knowledge and belief."

Garrett Keating, Former City Councilman
Kathleen Quenneville, Piedmont Resident
Jim McCrea, Piedmont Resident

ORDINANCE NO. 721 N.S.

AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 20B
OF THE PIEDMONT CITY CODE PROVIDING FOR A SPECIAL
MUNICIPAL SERVICES TAX

The City Council of the City of Piedmont hereby ordains as follows:
SECTION 1

It is the intent of the City Council of the City of Piedmont in adopting this Ordinance to
provide for the continuation of an excise tax, specifically a non-ad valorem parcel tax to be
imposed as a special tax for the availability and provision of municipal services in Piedmont.
Further, the availability and provision of City services and the demand for City services is closely
tied to the uses and occupancies of property within the City, and it is logical to base such tax on
use and occupancy of improved real property.

SECTION 2

Chapter 20B of the Piedmont City Code is hereby amended in its entirety to read as
follows:

“CHAPTER 20B
MUNICIPAL SERVICES SPECIAL TAX

SECTION 20B.1 AUTHORITY TO ADOPT MEASURE

This Ordinance and the tax authorized herein is adopted pursuant to the provisions of
Article 3.7 of Chapter 4 of Part 1 of Division 2 of Title 5 of the Government Code (Sections
53720-53730) and the California Constitution Articles XI, Section 5, Xm A, Section 4 and XIII
D, Section 3(a)(2). The tax authorized herein is based on use and occupancy of improved real
property.

SECTION 20B.2 AUTHORIZATION TO LEVY SPECIAL MUNICIPAL TAX

If in any fiscal year commencing on or after July 1, 2017, the City Council shall
determine that municipal services, including, but not limited to, police and fire protection, street
maintenance, building regulations, library services, recreation, parks maintenance, planning and
public works and similar services, are necessary for the public good, welfare and safety, and that
the cost of making available such services will exceed the amount of funds generated through
other revenue and income of the City for such services, then it may levy a special tax for such
fiscal year on each parcel of real property within the City in a manner provided herein. This is a
non-ad valorem parcel tax which, pursuant to California Constitution Article XIIID, Section 3,
shall be deemed a special tax as defined pursuant to Section 53721 of the California Government
Code.

1

SECTION 20B.3 DETERMINATION OF AMOUNT TO BE RAISED

Each year concurrent with the adoption of the annual budget, the City Council will
determine the total amount of expenditures necessary to provide adequate levels of municipal
services as defined in Section 20B.2 and deduct therefrom the projected revenue to be collected
from sources other than this special tax. The difference, if any, shall be the maximum amount of
funds to be derived from the tax authorized by this Ordinance for such year.

SECTION 20B.4 MAXIMUM TAX RATE/METHOD OF ASSESSMENT

After determining the amount of tax to be raised under Section 20B.3, the City Council
shall apportion said amount among the parcels of real property within the City not exempted by
law or exempted pursuant to Section 20B.12, as follows:

BASIC MUNICIPAL SERVICES TAX MAXIMUM RATE SCHEDULE

Developed	Parcels Divided	by

Per Parcel According to	Single Family Commercial Multi-Family	Tax Code Area

Size______________________Residence_______Properties	Residence________Line___________

0 to 4,999 sq. ft.	$501
5,000 to 9,999 sq. ft.	$563
10,000 to 14,999 sq. ft.	$650
15,000 to 20,000 sq. ft.	$742
Over 20,000 sq. ft.	$845
0 to 10,000 sq. ft.	$845
Over 10,000 sq. ft.	$1266
Per Dwelling Unit	$348
Per Parcel	$514
The foregoing tax rate schedule shall apply for the 2017/2018 tax year commencing July 1, 2017, and ending on June 30, 2018. For each tax year thereafter commencing with the 2018/2019 tax year, the foregoing tax rate schedule shall be adjusted as follows:	
An amount equal to the percentage increase or decrease in the Consumer Price Index	

(CPI) for all Urban Consumers (All items) (Base Year 1984 = 100) (Not Seasonally Adjusted)
for the San Francisco-Oakland-San Jose, California area, as published by the United States
Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics, for the period from December 2016 to
December of the fiscal year immediately prior to the year in which the percentage adjustment
will apply, multiplied by the specific tax rate in the foregoing Maximum Municipal Services Tax
Maximum Rate schedule. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the maximum percentage increase of
this tax as compared to the same tax in the prior fiscal year shall be 4%.

2

For purposes of example only, if the maximum tax rate in the 2017/2018 fiscal year for a
single family resident parcel of 5,000 square feet is $563.00, and the Consumer Price Index for
December 2016 is 100 and for December 2017 is 103, the increase of 3 is a 3% increase,
meaning an additional maximum tax of $16.89 for the 2018-2019 fiscal year or a total maximum
tax of $579.89 for such fiscal year.

The records of the Alameda County Assessor as of March 1 of the fiscal year immediately
preceding the fiscal year in which the special taxes are payable shall determine whether or not
any particular parcel is unimproved for purposes of this Ordinance. All improved parcels which
are located entirely within the City of Piedmont shall be subject to the special taxes assessed
pursuant to Chapter 20B. In addition, on improved parcels which are located partially within the
City of Piedmont, all such parcels whose residents are eligible to register to vote in Piedmont
and/or all such parcels which are eligible to receive services from the City of Piedmont pursuant
to the 911 Emergency System as of March 1 of the fiscal year immediately preceding the fiscal
year in which the special taxes are payable shall be subject to the special taxes assessed pursuant
to Chapter 20B. Each parcel shall be taxed pursuant to this Section 20B.4 according to its actual
use as of March 1 of the fiscal year immediately preceding the fiscal year in which any such
special tax is payable.

SECTION 20B.5 HEARING. TAX LIEN AND INCLUSION IN CITY TAXES

Prior to levying a tax under this Ordinance in any fiscal year, the City Council shall
conduct a public hearing on the proposed tax. Such hearing may be conducted simultaneously
with a hearing relating to the annual budget for the fiscal year in which the special tax is to apply.
Notice of such hearing shall be posted on the official bulletin board at City Hall at least 10 days
prior to the hearing. All of the information and material which the City Council intends to
consider at such hearing and the proposed amount of tax to be raised shall be made available to
the public by being on file in the office of the City Clerk for at least 10 days prior to said hearing.

Following said hearing, the Council may adopt a resolution fixing the amount of tax to be

raised.

SECTION 20B.6 COLLECTION

Pursuant to Government Code section 53087.4, any special tax authorized under this
chapter shall be collected by the Tax Collector of the County of Alameda. Any charges made by
such Tax Collector shall be paid out of funds deducted from the gross proceeds of the tax.

SECTION 20B.7 INCREASE APPROPRIATIONS LIMIT

Pursuant to California Constitution Article XMB, the appropriations limit for the City of
Piedmont will be increased by the aggregate sum collected by levy of this special tax in each of
the years covered by this Ordinance.

SECTION 20B.8 FUNDING AND EXPENDING PROCEEDS

Proceeds of any tax levied under this Ordinance shall be deposited into the General Fund
of the City.

SECTION 20B.9 UNEXPENDED RESIDUE

To the extent it has actually determined by an audit of the City’s finances that there is an
unexpended residue (as defined hereafter) of any money raised by the City under this Ordinance
for a particular fiscal year, then the City Council shall use such residue in the next fiscal year for
which the tax under this Ordinance has not been established, and shall reduce the amount of the
tax for such subsequent fiscal year by the amount of the unexpended residue. Unexpended
residue of any money raised by the City under this Ordinance may only be used in the succeeding
year for the purposes stated in this Ordinance or and to the extent there is an unexpended residue
for the 2016-2017 fiscal year ending June 30, 2017, such unexpended residue shall be returned to
the taxpayer on the same pro rata basis as originally levied by a refund or by a reduction in
subsequent taxes. “Unexpended residue” as used in this Section 20B.9 shall mean the amount
the General Fund Reserve of the City exceeds twenty-five percent (25%) of the actual general
operating expenses of the City in the fiscal year in question. “General Fund Reserve” as used in
this Section 20B.9 is defined as the unencumbered balance maintained in the general fund for the
purpose of meeting unforeseen expenses, unrealized revenue estimates, or other emergencies of
the City.

SECTION 20B.10 SEVERABILITY

If any provision of this Ordinance or the application thereof to any person or
circumstance is held invalid, such invalidity shall not affect any other provisions or applications,
and to this end the provisions this Ordinance are declared to be severable.

SECTIQN20B.il DURATION. AMENDMENT OR REPEAL

The authorization to levy a tax under this Ordinance shall expire with the fiscal year 2020-2021
ending June 30,2021. This Ordinance, or any provision thereof, may only be amended or
repealed by approval of a two-thirds majority of the voters voting on the proposition at any
initiative or referendum election.

This Ordinance shall be adopted, if approved by a two-thirds majority of the voters voting
on the proposition at an election to be held on Tuesday, June 7, 2016, and shall be effective
commencing with the fiscal year that begins on July 1, 2017; provided that the provisions of
Chapter 20B in effect on June 7, 2016 shall remain in effect for all purposes relating to the taxes
provided thereunder through the fiscal year ending June 30, 2017.

SECTION 20B. 12 EXEMPTIONS

The City Council may from time to time by Council resolution adopt exemptions to the tax
measures set further herein.”

4

SECTION 3

This Ordinance shall require passage by a 4/5*8 vote of the City Council in compliance
with the provisions of Section 53724(b) of the California Government Code, shall be posted at
City Hall after its second reading by the City Council for at least 30 days, and shall not become
effective unless approved by a two-thirds majority of the voters voting on the proposition at an
election to be held on Tuesday, June 7,2016.

I certify that the foregoing ordinance was passed and adopted at a regular meeting of the
Piedmont City Council on February 1, 2016, by the following vote:

Ayes:

Noes:

Absent/Abstain:

Fujioka, King, McBain, Rood, Wieler

None

None

Attest:

John O. Tulloch, City Clerk

5