Rio Vista General City Services Tax Measure 0	YES
To support the continued operations of Rio Vista general services, including paramedic services (first responders to a medical emergency and transport to a medical center or hospital, when needed), adequate police and fire protection, properly maintained community and neighborhood parks, and other city services, shall the existing 3/4-cent sales tax charged on purchases made in Rio Vista, generating approximately $784,000 annually, be continued for an additional five (5) years?	NO

Measure O - Rio Vista General City Services Tax Measure
Impartial Analysis by City Attorney, City of Rio Vista

The City Council of the City of Rio Vista has placed Measure O on the November 8, 2016 ballot.
California Revenue and Taxation Code section 7285.9 authorizes the City Council to levy a
transactions and use tax via ordinance, provided the ordinance establishing the tax is ultimately
approved by the voters.

If approved by Rio Vista voters, Measure O will extend the three-quarters (0.75%) transactions and
use tax which was previously approved by the voters in 2012, for an additional period of five years.

A transactions and use tax is administered by the State Board of Equalization and is commonly
referred to as a sales tax. Once established, this tax is allocated to the city where any goods are
delivered or placed into use. The transactions and use tax that would be established by Measure O is
also considered to be a “general tax.”

As a “general tax,” the revenue generated by Measure O will be deposited in the City’s general fund.
Further, the ballot question for Measure O states that the 0.75 percent transactions and use tax is to
be used for funding City services “including police, fire, parks and other city services.” Because this
transactions and use tax would be a “general tax,” the City of Rio Vista would be able to use tax
proceeds for any legal governmental purpose without restriction. The City of Rio Vista would not be
legally bound in any way to use the tax monies for any special purpose or for any particular program
or service.

The tax derived from Measure O would be paid in addition to current sales taxes and would be
collected at the same time and in the same manner as existing sales taxes. All revenues raised by the
tax would belong to the City and would not be shared with the State or any other agency.

Also, because Measure O is a “general tax,” it will be approved if a simple majority (50% + 1) of
voters vote in favor of it. If approved, Measure O would become effective in 2017 and remain in
effect until 2022. The tax would expire at the end of the five-year period unless it is reauthorized by
a majority of the voters at a future election that occurs prior to the expiration of the tax.

A “YES” vote is a vote to approve the ordinance extending the 0.75 percent transactions and use tax
for a period of five years. A “NO” vote is a vote against the extension of the tax.

Mona G. Ebrahimi
Rio Vista City Attorney

Argument in Favor of Measure O - November 8, 2016 Ballot

On November 6, 2012, Rio Vista voters approved Measure O, a %-cent sales tax, with
69.05% voter support. The revenues from Measure O were used to support continued
operations of Rio Vista general services; collection began on April 1, 2013, and (unless
renewed by Rio Vista voters) will expire March 31, 2018.

Leading the list of services presently being provided through Measure O are paramedic
services to Rio Vista residents, along with such other critical services as police, fire, land-
use planning, and-the-like. Especially given the fact that there is no hospital, medical
center, nor even a medical doctor in the city, keeping adequate paramedic services in place
is vital for all Rio Vista residents, especially local seniors and youth. Since this is a renewal,
keeping this sales tax in place will NOT increase local taxes, and all funds will remain within
the city.

The City of Rio Vista continues to suffer the effects of the Great Recession; yet, the city’s
population continues to grow. Public Safety costs have increased from 52% to 58% of
the General Fund budget since 2007; yet, General Fund revenues (excluding Measure
O) have decreased 37%. Thanks in part to Measure O funding, the City has been able
to add five Public Safety positions; however, in order to maintain police, fire, and
paramedic services at the current levels, the existing %-cent sales tax must remain in
place. If this tax is not renewed, Rio Vista will have an approximate $215,000 deficit for
Fiscal Year 2017-18, increasing to an approximate $800,000 deficit in FY 2018-19. As a
result, critical Police, Fire, and paramedic services may have to be cut. Additional cuts
can include street maintenance and closure of the City’s youth center and swimming pool.

City Council urges voters to renew the 3/4-cent sales tax for five years.

Is/ Norman Richardson, Mayor, City of Rio Vista
Is/ James McCracken, Vice Mayor, City of Rio Vista
Is/ Constance Boulware, Council Member, City of Rio Vista
Is/ David Hampton, Council Member, City of Rio Vista
/s/ Ronald Kott, Council Member, City of Rio Vista