Sunnyvale, California, Application of
Utility Users Tax to Wireless Telephone
Services, Measure N (November 2016)

| Text of measure

Ballot question

The following question appeared on the ballot;!1]

/, SUNNYVALE ESSENTIAL SERVICES PROTECTION MEASURE. To
maintain Sunnyvale’s financial stability without increasing the existing 2%
tax rate, and fund essential City services including police, fire and 911
emergency response, and pothole, street, sidewalk, and neighborhood park
maintenance/repairs, shall Sunnyvale modernize its existing utility users tax
to treat telecommunication taxpayers equally regardless of technology used,
providing approximately $1,500,000 annually on an ongoing basis, until
ended by voters, with independent audits, and all funds used locally? ra

MEASURE N

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE N

This measure is proposed by the Sunnyvale City Council to update
the City’s existing Utility Users Tax (“UUT”) ordinance to be consistent
with current practice and modern telecommunications technologies,
so every customer is treated the same whether they use the latest
telecommunications technology or older telephone services.

The UUT is levied on utility users in the City. Sunnyvale has imposed the
UUT on telephone, gas and electric utilities since 1969. The proceeds of
the UUT can only be spent on City services and cannot be taken away
by the State. Revenue generated by the tax goes to the City’s General
Fund to provide essential local government services including, but not
limited to police, fire and paramedic services; street, sidewalk and tree
maintenance; library, and parks and recreation.

Since the UUT was first enacted in 1969, the definitions of telephone
services and telephone technology have changed significantly, resulting
in inconsistent application of the tax. This measure would update the
UUT ordinance by incorporating definitions commonly used in the
telecommunications industry and anticipating new telecommunications
technologies and services. Wired and wireless, paid and prepaid
wireless, private networks for providing such services, and intrastate,
interstate and international calls would be treated the same, regardless
of the technology used to provide those services.

In recent years, many cities have modernized the telecommunications
part of their UUT ordinances to respond to changes in federal law and
to reflect the shift from landline telephones to digital communication
technologies such as wireless and VOIP. Approximately 90% of the cities
in the state that have a UUT use similar voter-approved definitions of
telecommunications services that are proposed in this ordinance.

The current 2% rate of the UUT will stay the same, as will the existing
categories of utilities subject to the UUT. This measure would not apply
to charges for internet access, or internet downloads of music, video and
other information unrelated to telecommunications. Voter approval would
be required for any future increase in the rate or the scope of services
subject to the UUT.

The ordinance will become effective if a majority of those voting on the
measure vote for it.

A “yes” vote is a vote in favor of adopting the updated UUT ordinance to
modernize the telecommunications provisions and maintain the existing
2% rate. A “no” vote will leave in place the existing UUT ordinance.

Isl John A. Nagel	7/25/16

City Attorney	Date

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE N

PROPOSED AMENDMENT TO THE
SUNNYVALE MUNICIPAL CODE

The City Council of the City of Sunnyvale, on its own motion, submits
to the Electors the following amendment to the Sunnyvale Municipal
Code. The City Council has called a consolidated general election for the
purpose of voting on the amendment to be held on November 8,2016.

The proposed amendment to the Municipal Code follows the
statement of the measure. The provisions of the Municipal Code proposed
to be deleted are printed as strike-out type, no changes are printed as
[Text unchanged], new numbering are printed as [Renumbered] and the
new provisions are printed as underlined type.

CITY OF SUNNYVALE MEASURE N

SUNNYVALE ESSENTIAL SERVICES PROTECTION
MEASURE. To maintain Sunnyvale’s financial stability without
increasing the existing 2% tax rate, and fund essential City
services including police, fire and 911 emergency response, and
pothole, street, sidewalk, and neighborhood park maintenance/
repairs, shall Sunnyvale modernize its existing utility users tax
to treat telecommunication taxpayers equally regardless of
technology used, providing approximately $1,500,000 annually
on an ongoing basis, until ended by voters, with independent
audits, and all funds used locally?

YES ________

NO _________

If Measure N carries, Chapter 3.12 of the Sunnyvale Municipal Code
shall be amended to read as follows:

Chapter 3.12.

UTILITY USERS TAX

3.12.010.	Title.

3.12.020.	Adoption—Charter authority.

3.12.030.	Definitions.

3.12.040.	Exemptions.

3.12.050.	Conflicts.

3.12.060050.	Taxes—Effective date. [Renumbered]

3.12.070060.	Telephone—users tax—Imposition

Rate—Charaes.Telecommunication
users tax.

3.12.080.	Telephone users tax—Exemptions and
exclusions.

3.12.090.	Telephone users tax—Collection.

3.12.100.	Telecommunication user tax—Credit for multi-

3.12.446070.	jurisdictional taxation.  Electricity users tax—Imposition—Rate.
3.12.420080.	[Renumbered]  Electricity users tax—Exclusions.
3.12.430090.	[Renumbered]  Electricity users tax—Collection.
3.12.446100.	[Renumbered]  Gas users tax—Imposition—Rate.
3.12.456110.	[Renumbered]  Gas users tax—Exclusions.
	[Renumbered]

SC Ballot Type 000 - Page 00

3.12.460120.	Gas users tax—Collection.

[Renumbered]

3.12.130.	Effect of Commingling Taxable Items

with Nontaxable Items

3.12.140.	Substantial Nexus/Minimum Contacts.

3.12.170.	Collection of Tax—Suit by city.

3.12.460150.	Collection of Tax—Duty—Procedures.

[Renumbered]

3.12.160.	Collection Penalties: Service Suppliers

or Self-Collectors.

3.12.400170.	Collection of tax—Administrative

regulationsAdditional Powers and
Duties of Tax Administrator.

3.12.200.	Delinquent taxes—When delinquent.

3.12.210.	Delinquent taxes—Service supplier—Penalty.

3.12.220.	Delinquent taxes—Service supplier—Fraud—

Penalty.

3.12.230.	Delinquent taxes—Service supplier—Interest.

3.12.240.	Delinquent taxes—Service supplier—Penalty and

interest part of tax.

3.12.250.	Delinquent taxes—Service user—Penalty.

3.12.260.	Delinquent taxes—Service user—Fraud—Penalty.

3.12.270.	Delinquent taxes—Service user—Interest.

3.12.280.	Delinquent taxes—Service user—Penalty and

interest part of tax.

3.12.290.	Delinquent taxes—Service user—Penalties and
interest collected by city.

3.12.180.	Deficiency Determination and

Assessment: Tax Application Errors.

3.12.190.	Administrative Remedy: Non-paving

Service Users.

3.12.200.	Actions to Collect.

3.12.300.	Failure to collect and report tax—Determination
of tax by collector—Notice.

3.12.310.	Failure to collect and report tax—Determination
of tax—Hearing application—Notice:

3.12.320.	Failure to collect and report tax—Determination
of tax after hearing—Notice—When
due.

3.12.330.	Failure to collect and report 4ax—Collection
of taxes from service-user by city—
Conditions—Notice:

3.12.340210.	Appeals—Who may appeal.

3.12.350.	Appeals—Hearing—Notice.

3.12.360.	Appeals—Hearing—Determination.

3.12.370.	Appeals—Hearing—Penalties suspended.

3.12.380220.	Records—Retention period—Access.

[Renumbered]

[Renumbered]

3.12.400.	Refunds—Service supplier refund.

3.12.410.	Refunds—Service user refund.

3.12.420.	Refunds—Claim—Proof required.

3.12.240.	No Injunction/Writ of Mandate.

3.12.250.	Remedies Cumulative.

3.12.260.	Notice of Changes to Ordinance.

3.12.270.	Future Amendment to Cited Statute.

3.12.280.	Annual Rate Review and Independent
Audit of Tax Collection. Exemption.
Remittance and Expenditure.

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE N-Continued

3.12.290.	No Increase in Tax Percentage of

Change in Methodology Without Voter
Approval: Amendment or Repeal.

3.12.010.	Title.

[Text unchanged.]

3.12.020.	Adoption—Charter authority.

[Text unchanged]

3.12.030.	Definitions.

Except where the context otherwise requires, the
definitions contained in this section shall govern the
construction of this chapter. The word “may” is always directory
and discretionary and not mandatory; the word “shall” is always
mandatory and not directory or discretionary.

(1)	“Ancillary telecommunications services” Ancillary
telecommunication services shall mean services that are
associated with or incidental to the provision, use or enjoyment
of telecommunications services, including but not limited to the
following services:

fat “Conference bridging service” shall mean an
ancillary service that links two (2) or more participants of an
audio or video conference call and mav include the provision
of a telephone number. Conference bridging service does not
include the telecommunications services used to reach the
conference bridge.

(b)	“Detailed telecommunications billing

service” shall mean an ancillary service of separately stated
information pertaining to individual calls on a customer's billing
statement.

fct	“Directory assistance” shall mean an

ancillary service of providing telephone number information.
and/or address information.

fdt “Vertical service” shall mean an ancillary
service that is offered in connection with one fit or more
telecommunications services, which offers advanced calling
features that allow customers to identify callers and to manage
multiple calls and call connections, including conference
bridging services.

fet “Voice mail service” shall mean an ancillary
service that enables the customer to store, send or receive
recorded messages. Voice mail service does not include anv
vertical services that the customer mav be required to have in
order to utilize the voice mail service.

(2)	“Billing address” shall mean the mailing address of
the service user where the service provider submits invoices or
bills for payment bv the service users.

(3)	“City” means the city of Sunnwale. California,
including all of the territory and jurisdiction thereof as presently
constituted, and anv and all of the same which shall later come
into existence bv anv manner or means whatsoever.

(2)	(4) “Collector” means the director of finance or
designee of the city of Sunnyvale.

(3)	{5) “Director” means the director of finance of the city
of Sunnyvale.

SC Ballot Type 000 - Page 00

(4)—“Intrastate telecommunication” means all
telecommunications regardless of routing that either (i)
originate in the city and terminate in the state, or (ii) originate
in the state and terminate in the city, where, in either instance,
a billing address for the telecommunication service user is in
the city.

(56) “Large commercial/agricultural ratepayer” shall
mean electric customers who have a maximum peak demand
equal to or greater than twenty kilowatts.

(671 “Paging service” means a telecommunications
service that provides transmission of coded radio signals for
the purpose of activating specific pagers: such transmissions
mav include messages and/or sounds.

(8)	_“Person” means any natural person, firm,

all domestic, nonprofit and foreign corporations:; firm:
associatiomsrsvndicates:: joint ventures:: joint stock company:
clubs;! trust: Massachusetts or common law trusts; estates;:
partnership of any kind:, limited liability company:; cooperative;!
societyies;: and any officer, agent, receiver, trustee, guardian
or other appointed representative thereof: joint power aaencv.
municipal district or municipal corporation, other than the Citv.

(9)	“Place of primary use” shall mean the street
address representative of where the customer's use of the
telecommunications or video service primarily occurs, which
must be the residential street address or the primary business
street address of the customer.

(10)	“Post-paid telecommunication service” shall mean
the telecommunication service obtained bv making a payment
on a communication-bv-communication basis either through
the use of a credit card or payment mechanism such as a bank
card, travel card, credit card, or debit card, or bv charge made
to a service number which is not associated with the origination
or termination of the telecommunication service.

(Ill “Prepaid telecommunication service” shall mean
the right to access telecommunication services, which must
be paid for in advance and which enables the origination of
communications using an access number or authorization
code, whether manually or electronically dialed, and shall
include “prepaid mobile telephony services” as defined in
Revenue and Taxation Code Section 42004(k1.

(121 “Private telecommunication service” shall mean
a telecommunication service that entitles the customer to
exclusive or priority use of a communications channel or group
of channels between or among termination points, regardless of
the manner in which such channel or channels are connected,
and includes switching capacity, extension lines, stations, and
anv other associated services that are provided in connection
with the use of such channel or channels. A communications
channel is a physical or virtual path of communications over
which signals are transmitted between or among customer
channel termination points (i.e.. the location where the
customer either inputs or receives the communicationsl.

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE N-Continued

(713) “Residential/small commercial ratepayer” shall
mean electric customers who have a maximum peak demand
of less than twenty kilowatts.

(141 Service address shall mean the residential street
address or the business street address of the service user. For
a telecommunications service user, “service address” means
either:

(a)	The location of the service user’s
telecommunication equipment from which the communication
originates or terminates, regardless of where the
communication is billed or paid: or.

(bl If the location in paragraph a. of this
definition is unknown (e.a.. mobile telecommunications service
or VoIP servicel. the service address shall mean the location
of the service user’s place of primary use.

(cl For prepaid telecommunication service,
“service address” means the point of sale of the services
where the point of sale is within the Citv. or if unknown, the
known address of the service user (e.a.. billing address or
location associated with the service numberl. which locations
shall be presumed to be the place of primary use.

(815) “Service supplier” means any person including the
Citv. who provides or sells telecommunication, electric, or aas
service to a user of such services within the Citv. The term
shall include anv person required to collect, or self-collect
under this chapter, and remit a tax as imposed bv this chapter,
including its billing agent in the case of electric or gas suppliers.
required to collect a tax under the provisions of this chapter.

(916) “Service user” means a person required to pay a
tax imposed under the provisions of this chapter.

(4917)“Tax administrator” means the director of finance or
designee of the city of Sunnyvale.

(4418)“Telephone communication “Telecommunication
services” means “communication services” as defined in
Sections 4251 and 4252 of the Internal Revenue Code and
the regulations thereunder, as those Sections were interpreted
by the Internal Revenue Service before May 25, 2006, and
shall include any telephonic quality communication that is
interconnected to a public switched network, and shall include,
without limitation, transmissions (including but not limited to,
voice, telegraph, teletypewriter, data, facsimile, video or text}-
by electronic, radio, or similar means through “interconnected
service” with the “public switched network,” as these terms
are commonly used in the Federal Communications Act, 47
U.S.C.A. Section 332(d) and the regulations of the Federal
Communications Commission, whether such transmission
occurs by wire, cable, fiber-optic, light wave, laser, microwave,
radio wave, including, but not limited to cellular service,
commercial mobile service, personal communications service
(PCS), specialized mobile radio (SMR), and other types of
personal wireless service telecommunications (see 47 U.S.C.A.
Section 332(c)(8)(C)(i), regardless of the radio spectrum used,
switching facilities, satellite or anv other similar facilities, the
transmission, conveyance, or routing of voice, data, audio,
video, or anv other information or signals to a point, or

between or among points, whatever the technology used, and
includes broadband service (e.g.. digital subscriber line (DSLT
fiber optic, coaxial cable, and wireless broadband, including
Wi-Fi. WiMAX. and Wireless MESH! to the extent federal and/
or state law permits taxation of such broadband services,
now or in the future. The term “telecommunications service”
includes such transmission, conveyance, or routing in which
computer processing applications are used to act on the form,
code or protocol of the content for purposes of transmission,
conveyance or routing without regard to whether such service
is referred to as voice over internet protocol (VoIP) services
or is classified by the Federal Communications Commission
as enhanced or value added, and includes video and/or data
service that is functionally integrated with “telecommunication
services”. Telecommunications services include, but is not
limited to the following services, regardless of the manner
or basis on which such services are calculated or billed:
ancillary telecommunication services: intrastate, interstate
and international telecommunication services: all forms of
VoIP service: mobile telecommunications service: prepaid
telecommunication service: post-paid telecommunication
service: private telecommunication service: paging service:
800 service for anv other toll-free numbers designated bv
the Federal Communications Commission^: 900 service
(or anv other similar numbers designated bv the Federal
Communications Commission for services whereby subscribers
who call in to prerecorded or live service).

(191 “VoIP (Voice Over Internet Protocoh” means
the digital process of making and receiving real-time voice
transmissions over anv Internet Protocol network.

(201 ”800 Service” means a “telecommunications
service” that allows a caller to dial a toll-free number without
incurring a charge for the call. The service is typically marketed
under the name “800.” “855.” “866.” “877.” and “888" toll-free
calling, and anv subsequent numbers designated bv the
Federal Communications Commission.

(211 “900 Service” means an inbound toll
“telecommunications service” purchased bv a subscriber that
allows the subscriber’s customers to call in to the subscriber’s
prerecorded announcement or live service. “900 service” does
not include the charge for: collection services provided bv the
seller of the “telecommunications services” to the subscriber.
or service or product sold bv the subscriber to the subscriber’s
customer. The service is typically marketed under the name
“900” service, and anv subsequent numbers designated by the
Federal Communications Commission.

3.12.040.	Exemptions.

Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed as
imposing a tax upon the city, or any person when imposition
of such tax upon that person would be in violation of the
Constitution of the United States or that of the state of
California, (al The taxes imposed bv this chapter shall not
apply to:

(It Anv person or service if imposition of
such tax upon that person or service would be in violation of
a Federal or State statute or the Constitution of the State of
California, or the Constitution of the United States: or

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE N-Continued

(21 The Citv. and the State of California and its
subdivisions.

(bl	Anv service user that is exempt from the tax imposed

bv this chapter pursuant to subsection (at of this Section shall
file an application with the Tax Administrator for an exemption:
provided, however, this requirement shall not apply to a service
user that is a State or Federal agency or subdivision with a
commonly recognized name for such service. Said application
shall be made upon a form approved bv the Tax Administrator
and shall state those facts, declared under penalty of perjury.
which qualify the applicant for an exemption, and shall include
the names of all service suppliers serving that service user. If
deemed exempt bv the Tax Administrator, such service user
shall give the Tax Administrator timely written notice of any
change in service suppliers so that the Tax Administrator can
properly notify the new service supplier of the service user’s
tax exempt status. A service user that fails to apply and obtain
an exemption pursuant to this Section 3.12.040 shall not be
entitled to a refund of a users tax collected and remitted to the
Tax Administrator from such service user as a result of such
noncompliance.

(cl The decision of the Tax Administrator regarding an
exemption application mav be appealed pursuant to Section
3.12.210 (Appeals) of this chapter. Filing an application with
the Tax Administrator and appeal to the Citv Manager, or
designee, pursuant to Section 3.12.210 is a prerequisite to a
suit thereon.

(dl The Citv Council mav. bv resolution, establish one
or more classes of persons or one or more classes of utility
service otherwise subject to payment of a tax imposed bv this
chapter and provide that such classes of persons or service
shall be exempt, in whole or in part from such tax for a specified
period of time.

3.12.050. Conflicts. Nothing contained in this chapter is
intended to conflict with applicable rules, regulations and
tariffs of any service supplier subject to the jurisdiction of the
California Public Utilities Commission. In the event of any
conflict, the provisions of said rules, regulations and tariffs
shall control.

3.12.0560.	Taxes—Effective date.

[Text unchanged],

3.12.0703.12.060. Telephone Telecommunication users
tax,—Imposition Rate Charges.

(a)	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person.
in the Citv. other than a telephone corporation, using intrastate
telecommunication services in the city. The tax imposed by
this section and Sections 3.12.080 through 3.12.100 shall be
at the rate of two percent of the charges made for intrastate
telephone communication such services, and shall be collected
from the service user by the telephone communication
telecommunication services provider supplier or its billing agents
or as otherwise provided bv law. To the extent allowed by law,
the tax on intrastate telephone communication services shall
apply to a service user if the billing or service address of the
service user is within the city's boundaries. If the billing address
of the service user is different from the service address, the

SC Ballot Type 000 - Page 00

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE N-Continued

service address of the service user shall be used. There is
a rebuttable presumption that telecommunication services.
which are billed to a billing or service address in the Citv. are
used, in whole or in part, within the City’s boundaries, and such
services are subject to taxation under this section. There is
also a rebuttable presumption that prepaid telecommunication
services sold within the citv are primarily used, in whole or in
part, within the Citv and are therefore subject to taxation under
this Section. If the billing address of the service user is different
from the service address, the service address of the service
user shall be used for purposes of imposing the tax. As used
in this section, the term “charges” shall include the value of
anv other services, credits, property of every kind or nature, or
other consideration provided bv the service user in exchange
for the telecommunication services.

(b)	—“Telephone communications services” shall not
include “private mobile radio service,” as defined in Part 20 of the
Title 47 of the Code of Federal Regulations, or “private mobile
service,” as defined in 47 U.S.C.A. Section 332 (d), which is not
interconnected to a public switched network. The tax imposed
under this chapter shall not be imposed upon any person for
using intrastate telephone communication services to the
extent that pursuant to Sections 4252 and 4253 of the Internal
Revenue Code, the amounts paid for such communication
services are exempt from or are not subject to the tax imposed
under Section 4251 of the Internal Revenue Code, as those
sections were interpreted by the Internal Revenue Service
prior to May 25, 2006. In the event that the federal excise tax
on “communications services” as provided in Sections 42517
4252, and 4253 of the Internal Revenue Code is subsequently
modified, any reference in this Chapter or in any administrative
ruling to such law, including any related federal regulations,
private letter rulings, case law, and other opinions interpreting
these sections, shall refer to that body of law as those sections
were interpreted by the Internal Revenue Service prior to May
25.2006. fbl “Mobile telecommunications service” shall be
sourced in accordance with the sourcing rules set forth in the
Mobile Telecommunications Sourcing Act (4 U.S.C. Section
1241. The Tax Administrator mav issue and disseminate to
telecommunication service suppliers, which are subject to the
tax collection requirements of this section, sourcing rules for
the taxation of other telecommunication services, including but
not limited to post-paid telecommunication services, prepaid
telecommunication services, and private telecommunication
services, provided that such rules are based upon custom
and common practice that further administrative efficiency and
minimize multi-jurisdictional taxation.

(c)	The tax administrator may, from time to time, issue
and disseminate to telecommunication service suppliers, which
are subject to the tax collection requirements of this chapter,
an administrative ruling identifying those telecommunications
services, or charges for such services, that are subject to
taxation under this chapter. These administrative rulings
shall implement the intent of the Citv Council that the
telecommunications users tax be imposed on anv person who
initiates or receives telecommunications without regard to the
type of technology that exists on the effective date of this section
of which mav be developed in the future. The administrative

rules shallremain in effect unless altered or amended by the tax
administrator and these administrative rulings shall continue
to be consistent with applicable legal requirements, including
any federal excise tax rules, regulations, and laws pertaining
to “communications services” as interpreted by the Internal
Revenue Service before Mav 25. 2006not impose a new tax.
revise an existing tax methodology as stated in this section.
or increase an existing tax, except as allowed bv California
Government Code sections 53750(h)(2)(A).

(d)	—As used in this section, the term “charges” shall also
include the value of any other services, credits, property of every
kind or nature, or other consideration provided by the service user
in exchange for the telecommunication services including (i) all
monthly recurring charges for calling features purchased by the
user; (ii) monthly service charges for services including foreign
exchange service; (iii) charges for special listings in the white
pages of the telephone directory; (iv) charges for non-published
(unlisted) numbers; (v) directory assistance charges; (vi) message
unit or zone rate charges; (vii) repair charges; and (viii) toll or long
distance messages. If a non-taxable service and a taxable service
are billed together under a single charge, the entire charge shall be
deemed taxable unless the service provider can reasonably identify
charges not subject to the utility users tax based upon its books and
records that are kept in the regular course of business, which shall
be consistent with generally accepted accounting principles.(e) As
used in this section, the term “charges” shall not, however, include:

(i)	--customer deposits;

(ii)	—directory (Yellow Pages) advertising;

(iii)	—rental or sale of directories, reverse

directories;

(iv)	—all charges for maritime mobile services
as defined in Section 2.1 of Title 47 of the Code of Federal
Regulations;

(v)	—private line service charges;

(vi)	—PBX charges (excluding trunk charges);

(vii)	—all charges made for Universal Life Line
services; and

fviiil services paid for bv inserting coins in-
coin-operated telephones-fdi As used in this Section, the
term “telecommunication services” shall include, but is not
limited to. charges for: connection, reconnection, termination
or early termination charges: movement or change of
telecommunication services: late payment fees: detailed
billing: central office and custom calling features (including but
not limited to call waiting, call forwarding, caller identification
and three-wav calling): voice mail and other messaging
services: directory assistance: access and line charges:
universal service charges: fees, charges or surcharges, which
are imposed bv anv state or federal aaencv or law (whether
such fees, charges or surcharges are imposed on the service
supplier or the customer): local number portability charges:
and text and instant messaging. “Telecommunication services”
shall not include digital downloads that are not “ancillary
telecommunication services.” such as music, ringtones, games.
and similar digital products.

(e)	To prevent actual multi-jurisdictional taxation of
telecommunication services subject to tax under this section.

SC Ballot Type 000 - Page 00

anv service user, upon proof to the Tax Administrator that the
service user has previously paid the same tax in another state
or city on such telecommunication services, shall be allowed a
credit against the tax imposed to the extent of the amount of
such tax legally imposed in such other State or Citv: provided,
however, the amount of credit shall not exceed the tax owed to
the Citv under this section.

(ft The tax on telecommunication services imposed
bv this section shall be collected from the service user bv the
service supplier. The amount of tax collected in one fit month
shall be remitted to the Tax Administrator, and must be received
bv the Tax Administrator on or before the twentieth f20th1 dav
of the following month.

3.12.080.	Telephone users tax—Exemptions and exclusions.

Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 3.12.070, the
tax imposed under Sections 3.12.070 through 3.12.100 shall
not be imposed upon any person for using telecommunication
services to the extent that the amounts paid for such services
are exempt from or not subject to the tax imposed under
Section 4251 of the Internal Revenue Code, as that Section
was interpreted by the Internal Revenue Service before May
25, 2006, or under Part 20 (commencing with Section 41001)
of Division 2 of the California Revenue and Taxation Code, and
the regulations thereunder, except for the following charges,
which are taxable under this section:

fa)	—Charges to a service user by a hotel or motel for
intrastate telecommunication services used in the city when
such charges are incidental to the right of occupancy in such
hotel or motel. Collection of the tax shall be the responsibility
of the hotel or motel; and

fb)	—Charges to a service user in the city by a
telecommunication services provider, including but not limited
to an alternative or nontraditional telephone service provider,
a private communication service provider, or a competitive
access provider, for providing intrastate telecommunication
services used in the city.

3.12.090.	Telephone users tax—Collection.

The tax imposed in this section and Sections 3.12.070
through 3.12.090 shall be collected from the service user by
the person providing the intrastate telephone communication
services. The amount of tax collected in one month shall
be remitted to the collector on or before the last day of the
following month.

3.12.100.	Telecommunication user tax—Credit for multi-
jurisdictional taxation.

To prevent actual multi-jurisdictional taxation of intrastate
telecommunication services subject to tax under Sections
3.12.060 through 3.12.090, any service user, upon proof to the
collector that the service user has previously paid the same tax
in another city on such intrastate telecommunication service,
shall be allowed a credit against the tax imposed to the extent
of the amount of such tax legally imposed in such other city;
provided, however, the amount of credit shall not exceed the
tax owed to the city under Sections 3.12.060 through 3.12.090.
(Ord. 2688-01 § 6).

3r12.1103.12.070. Electricity users tax—Imposition—Rate.

[Renumbered; text unchanged]

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE N-Continued

3.12.1203.12.080.	Electricity users tax—Exclusions.

[Renumbered; text unchanged]

3rt2^303.12.090. Electricity users tax—Collection.

[Renumbered; text unchanged]

3rt2^403.12.100. Gas users tax—Imposition—Rate.

[Renumbered; text unchanged]

3rt2^503.12.110. Gas users tax—Exclusions.

[Renumbered; text unchanged]

3.12.1603.12.120. Gas users tax—Collection.

[Renumbered; text unchanged]

3.12.130.________Effect	of Commingling Taxable Items

with Nontaxable Items.

If anv non-taxable service charges are combined with
and not separately stated from taxable service charges on the
customer bill or invoice of a service supplier, the combined
charge is subject to tax unless the service supplier is able to
establish reasonable values for the portions of the combined
charge that are nontaxable and taxable. If the service supplier
offers a combination of taxable and non-taxable services, and
the charges are separately stated, the service supplier shall
assign reasonable values for the taxable and non-taxable
services. In assigning reasonable values for taxable and
non-taxable services under this Section 3.12.130. the service
supplier mav use reasonable and verifiable standards, as
approved by the Tax Administrator, such as: (i) the books
and records kept in the regular course of business and in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles
(not created and maintained for tax purposes!: fii) the market
value of such taxable and non-taxable services when offered
on a stand-alone basis bv the supplier or its competitors: or (iiil
other similar evidence of value. The service supplier has the
burden of proving to the satisfaction of the Tax Administrator
the reasonable valuation and proper apportionment of taxable
and non-taxable charges under this Section 3.12.130.

3.12.140._________Substantial Nexus/Minimum Contacts.

For purposes of imposing a tax or establishing a duty to
collect and remit a tax under this Article, “substantial nexus”.
“substantial economic presence”, and “minimum contacts”
shall be construed broadly in favor of the imposition, collection
and/or remittance of the utility users tax to the fullest extent
permitted bv State and Federal law, and as it may change
from time to time bv judicial interpretation or by statutory
enactment. Anv telecommunication service /including VolPI
used bv a person with a service address in the Citv shall be
subject to a rebuttable presumption that “substantial nexus/
minimum contacts” exists for purposes of imposing a tax,
or establishing a duty to collect and remit a tax, under this
Chapter. A service supplier shall be deemed to have sufficient
activity in the Citv for tax collection and remittance purposes if
its activities include, but are not limited to. anv of the following:
maintains or has within the City, directly or through an agent.
affiliate or subsidiary, a place of business of anv nature: solicits
business in the City bv employees, independent contractors,
resellers, agents, affiliates or other representatives: solicits
business in the Citv on a continuous, regular, seasonal or

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE N-Continued  systematic basis bv means of advertisina that is broadcast or relaved from a transmitter within the Citv or distributed from a location with the Citv: or advertises in newspapers or other periodicals printed and published within the Citv or throuah materials distributed in the Citv bv means other than the United States mail: or if there are activities performed in the Citv on behalf of the service supplier that are sianificantlv associated with the service supplier’s ability to establish and maintain a market in the Citv for the provision of utility services that are subject to a tax under this Chapter (e.a.. an affiliated person or independent contractor engaging in activities in the City that inure to the benefit of the service supplier in its development or maintenance of a market for its services in the Citv. includina bv directlv or indirectly referrina potential customers, whether bv a link on an internet website or otherwise, to the service	COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE N-Continued  where a service user has notified the service supplier of refusal to pav the tax imposed on said charges. Section 3.12.190 (■Administrative Remedy) shall applv.  (2) The dutv of a service supplier to collect the tax from a service user shall commence with the beginning of the first reaular billina period applicable to the service user where all charaes normally included in such regular billing are subject to the provisions of this chapter. Where a person receives more than one (1) billina. one (1) or more beina for different periods than another, the duty to collect shall arise separately for each billing period.  (b) Filina Return and Payment. Each person required by this chapter to remit a tax shall file a return to the Tax Administrator, on forms approved bv the Tax Administrator, on
supplier).  3.12.170. Collection of Tax—Suit by city. Any tax required to be paid by a service user under the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed a debt owed by the service user to the city. Any such tax collected from a service user which has not been remitted to the collector shall be deemed a debt owed to the city by the person required to collect and remit. Any person owing money to the city under the provisions of this chapter shall be liable to an action brought in the name of the city for the recovery of such amount.  3.12.1803.12.150. Collection of Tax—Duty—Procedures.  The duty to collect and remit the taxes imposed by this chapter shall be performed as follows:  (a)—The tax shall be collected insofar as practicable at the same time as and along with the charges made in accordance with regular billing practice of the service supplier. Except in those cases where a service user pays the full amount of said charges but does not pay any portion of a tax imposed by this chapter, or where a service user has notified a service supplier that he is refusing to pay a tax imposed by this chapter which the supplier is required to collect, if the amount paid by a service user is less than the full amount of the charge and tax which has accrued for the billing period, a proportionate share of both the charge and the tax shall be deemed to have been paid.	or before the due date. The full amount of the tax collected shall be included with the return and filed with the Tax Administrator. The Tax Administrator is authorized to require such additional information as he or she deems necessary to determine if the tax is being levied, collected, and remitted in accordance with this chapter. Returns are due immediately upon cessation of business for any reason. Pursuant to Revenue and Tax Code Section 7284.6. the Tax Administrator, and its aaents. shall maintain such filina returns as confidential information that is exempt from the disclosure provisions of the California Public Records Act.  3.12.160. Collection Penalties: Service Suppliers or Self-Collectors.  (a) Taxes collected from a service user are delinquent if not received bv the Tax Administrator on or before the due date. Should the due date occur on a weekend or leaal holiday, the return must be received bv the Tax Administrator on the first regular workinq dav following the weekend or leaal holiday A direct deposit, including electronic fund transfers and other similar methods of electronically exchanaina monies between financial accounts, made bv a service supplier in satisfaction of its obliaations under this Section shall be considered timelv if the transfer is initiated on or before the due date, and the transfer settles into the Citv’s account on the followina business day.  fb) If the person required to collect and/or remit the
fb)—The duty to collect tax from a service user shall	utility users tax fails to collect the tax (bv failina to properlv
commence with the beginning of the first regular billing period	assess the tax on one (1) or more services or charaes on the
applicable to that person which starts on or after the operative	customer’s billina) or fails to remit the tax collected on or before
date of this chapter. Where a person receives more than one billing, one or more being for different periods than another, the	the due date, the Tax Administrator shall attach a penalty for such delinquencies or deficiencies at the rate of up to fifteen
duty to collect shall arise separately for each billing period.  (a) Collection bv Service SuDDliers. The dutv of service suppliers to collect and remit the taxes imposed bv the provisions of this chapter shall be performed as follows:  (1) The tax shall be collected bv service suppliers insofar as practicable at the same time as. and alona with, the collection of the charaes made in accordance with the regular billing practice of the service supplier. Where the amount paid by a service user to a service supplier is less than the full amount of the charae and tax that was accrued for the billinq period, a proportionate share of both the charae and the tax shall be deemed to have been paid. In those cases	(15%) percent of the total tax that is delinquent or deficient in the remittance, and shall pay interest at the rate of up to 75/100ths (0.75%) percent per month, or anv fraction thereof, on the amount of the tax. exclusive of penalties, from the date on which the remittance first become delinquent, until paid.  (c) The Tax Administrator shall have the power to impose additional penalties upon persons required to collect and remit taxes pursuant to the provisions of this chapter for fraud or gross nealiaence in reporting or remittina at the rate of up to fifteen (15%) percent of the amount of the tax collected and/or required to be remitted, or as recomputed bv the Tax Administrator.

SC Ballot Type 000 - Page 00

(dt	For collection purposes only, every penalty imposed

and such interest that is accrued under the provisions of this
section shall become a part of the tax herein required to be
paid.

(e) Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Tax
Administrator mav. in his or her discretion, modify the due dates
and/or penalty and interest provisions of this section to be
consistent with anv uniform standards or procedures that are
mutually agreed upon bv UUT public agencies, or otherwise
legally established, to create a UUT central payment location
or mechanism.

3.12.1903.12.170.	Collection of tax—Administrative
regulationsAdditional Powers and Duties of the Tax
Administrator. The director may make administrative
agreements to vary the strict requirements of this chapter
so that collection of any tax imposed herein may be made in
conformance with the billing procedures of a particular service
supplier so long as the overall result of said agreements results
in collection of tax in conformance with the general purpose
and scope of thi3 chapter. A copy of each such agreement shall
be on file and available for public examination in the director’s
office.

fa)	The Tax Administrator shall have the power and
duty, and is hereby directed, to enforce each and all of the
provisions of this chapter.

fb)	The Tax Administrator mav adopt administrative
rules and regulations consistent with provisions of this chapter
for the purpose of interpreting, clarifying, carrying out and
enforcing the payment, collection and remittance of the taxes
herein imposed. The administrative ruling shall not impose a new
tax, revise an existing tax methodology as stated in this chapter,
or increase an existing tax, except as allowed bv California
Government Code Section 53750fhM2t. A copy of such
administrative rules and regulations shall be on file in the Tax
Administrator’s office. To the extent that the Tax Administrator
determines that the tax imposed under this chapter shall not
be collected in full for anv period of time from anv particular
service supplier or service user, that determination shall be
considered an exercise of the Tax Administrator's discretion
to settle disputes and shall not constitute a change in taxing
methodology for purposes of Government Code Section 53750
or otherwise. The Tax Administrator is not authorized to amend
the City’s methodology for purposes of Government Code
Section 53750 and the City does not waive or abrogate its ability
to impose the utility users tax in full as a result of promulgating
administrative rulings or entering into agreements.

(c)	Upon a proper showing of good cause, the Tax
Administrator mav make administrative agreements, with
appropriate conditions, to vary from the strict requirements of
this chapter and thereby: (It conform to the billing procedures
of a particular service supplier so long as said agreements
result in the collection of the tax in conformance with the
general purpose and scope of this chapter: or. (2) to avoid
a hardship where the administrative costs of collection and
remittance greatly outweigh the tax benefit. A copy of each
such agreement shall be on file in the Tax Administrator’s

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE N-Continued

office, and are voidable bv the Tax Administrator or the City at
any time.

fch The Tax Administrator mav conduct an audit,
to ensure proper compliance with the requirements of this
chapter, of any person required to collect and/or remit a tax
pursuant to this chapter. The Tax Administrator shall notify said
person of the initiation of an audit in writing. In the absence of
fraud or other intentional misconduct, the audit period or review
shall not exceed a period of three f3) years next preceding
the date of receipt of the written notice bv said person from
the Tax Administrator. Upon completion of the audit, the Tax
Administrator mav make a deficiency determination pursuant to
Section 3.12.180 (Deficiency Determination and Assessment:
Tax Application Errorst for all taxes land applicable penalties
and interest) owed and not paid, as evidenced bv information
provided by such person to the Tax Administrator. If said person
is unable or unwilling to provide sufficient records to enable the
Tax Administrator to verify compliance with this chapter, the Tax
Administrator is authorized to make a reasonable estimate of
the deficiency. Said reasonable estimate shall be entitled to be
a rebuttable presumption of correctness.

(e)	Upon receipt of a written request of a taxpayer.
and for good cause, the Tax Administrator mav extend the
time for filing any statement required pursuant to this chapter
for a period of not to exceed fortv-five (45) davs. provided
that the time for filing the required statement has not already
passed when the request is received. No penalty for delinquent
payment shall accrue bv reason of such extension. Interest
shall accrue during said extension at the rate of three-quarters
of one f3/4%) percent per month, prorated for any portion
thereof.

(f)	The Tax Administrator shall determine the eligibility
of anv person who asserts a right to exemption from, or a
refund of. the tax imposed bv this chapter.

(g)	The City may compromise a claim filed pursuant to
this chapter consistent with the provisions of the City Charter
and section 2.04.030 of the Sunnwale Municipal Code.

(h)	Notwithstanding anv provision in this chapter to
the contrary, the Tax Administrator mav waive anv penalty
or interest imposed upon a person required to collect and/or
remit for failure to collect the tax imposed bv this chapter if the
non-collection occurred in good faith. In determining whether
the non-collection was in good faith, the Tax Administrator
shall take into consideration the uniqueness of the product or
service, industry practice or other precedence, or whether the
person offers to voluntarily disclose its tax liability. The Tax
Administrator mav also participate with other utility users tax
public agencies in conducting coordinated compliance reviews
with the goal of achieving administrative efficiency and uniform
tax application determinations, where possible. To encourage
voluntary full disclosure and on-going cooperation on tax
collection and remittance, the Tax Administrator, and its agents.
mav enter into agreements with the tax-collectina service
providers and grant prospective only effect on any changes
regarding the taxation of services or charges that were
previously deemed bv the service provider, in good faith and

without gross negligence, to be non-taxable. In determining
whether the non-collection was in good faith and without gross
negligence, the Tax Administrator shall take into consideration
the uniqueness of the product or service, industry practice or
other precedence, and whether the disclosure was voluntarily
made bv the service provider or its agent.

3.12.200.	Delinquent taxes—When delinquent. Taxes
collected from a service user which are not remitted to the
collector on or before the due dates provided in this chapter
are delinquent.

3.12.210.	Delinquent taxes—Service supplier—Penalty. In

addition to remitting the amount of the tax, any service supplier
who fails to remit any tax imposed by this chapter within the
time required and upon five days written notice to the service
supplier of its failure to remit, shall pay a penalty of ten percent
of the amount of the tax which shall be added on the last day
of each month following the date on which remittance was due
until the tax and penalties are remitted. Provided, however, that
the total amount of the monthly penalties shall not exceed the
total amount of the tax due.

3.12.220.	Delinquent taxes—Service supplier—Fraud—
Penalty. If the collector determines that the nonpayment by
any service supplier of any remittance due under this chapter
is due to fraud, a penalty of twenty-five percent of the amount
of the tax shall be added thereto in addition to the penalties
stated in Section 3.12.210.

3.12.230.	Delinquent taxes—Service supplier—Interest-

In addition to the penalties imposed-by Sections 3.12.210
and 3.12.220, any service supplier who fails to remit any tax
imposed by this chapter shall [jay interest at the rate of one
percent per month, or fraction thereof, on the amount of the tax,
exclusive of penalties, from the date on which the remittance
first became delinquent until paid.

3.12.240.	Delinquent taxes—Service supplier—Penalty and
interest part of tax. Every penalty imposed upon a service
supplier and such interest as accrues, under the provisions of
Sections 3.12.210 to 3.12.230, inclusive, shall become a part
of the tax required to be remitted.

3H 2.250. Delinquent taxes—Service user—Penalty, frt-
addition to paying the amount of the tax, any service user who
fails to pay any tax imposed by this chapter within thirty days
of the date of the receipt of notice of the amount of tax due
from the service supplier 3hall pay a penalty of ten percent
of the amount of the tax which shall be added on the last day
of each month following the date on which payment was due
until the tax and penalties are paid. Provided, however, that the
total amount of the monthly penalties shall not exceed the total
amount of the tax due.

3.12.260.	Delinquent taxes—Service user—Fraud-
Penalty. If the collector determines that the nonpayment by
any service user of any tax imposed by this chapter is due to
fraud, a penalty of twenty-five percent of the amount of the tax
shall be added thereto in addition to the penalties stated in
Section 3.12.250.

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE N-Continued

3.12.270.	Delinquent taxes—Service user—Interest.

In addition to the penalties imposed by Sections 3.12.250
and 3.12.260, any service user who fails to pay any tax imposed
by this chapter, shall pay interest at the rate of one percent per
month, or fraction thereof, exclusive of penalties, from the date
on which the remittance first became delinquent until paid, and
a collection charge of ten dollars for each delinquent account.

3.12.280.	Delinquent taxes—Service user—Penalty and
interest part of tax.

Every penalty imposed, and such interest as accrues
upon a service user, under the provisions of Sections 3.12.250
to 3.12.270, inclusive, shall become a part of the tax required
to be paid.

3.12.290.	Delinquent taxes—Service user—Penalties and
interest collected by city.

The penalties, interest, and collection charges imposed in
Sections 3.12.250 to 3.12.270, inclusive, shall not be collected
by the service supplier, but by the city:

3.12.300.	Failure to collect and report tax—Determination
of tax by collector—Notice.

If any service supplier fails to make, within the time
provided in this chapter, any report and remittance of the tax or
any portion thereof required by this chapter, the collector shall
proceed in such manner as he may deem best to obtain facts
and information on which to base his estimate of the tax due. As
soon as the collector shall procure such facts and information
as he is able to obtain upon which to base the assessment of
any tax imposed by this chapter and payable by any service
supplier who has failed or refused to make such report and
remittance, he shall proceed to determine and assess against
such service supplier the tax, interest and penalties provided
for by this chapter. In case such determination is made, the
collector shall give a notice of the amount so assessed by
serving it personally or by depositing it in the United States
mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the service supplier so
assessed at his last known place of address.

3.12.310.	Failure to collect and report tax—Determination
of tax—Hearing application—Notice.

The service supplier may within ten days after the serving
or mailing of the notice referred to in Section 3.12.300 make
application in writing to the collector for a hearing on the
amount assessed. If application by the service supplier for a
hearing is not made within the time prescribed, the tax, interest
and penalties, if any, determined by the collector shall become
final and conclusive and immediately due and payable. If such-
application is made, the collector shall give not less than five
days written notice in the manner prescribed herein to the
service supplier to show cause at a time and place fixed in the
notice why the amount specified therein should not be fixed for
such tax, interest and penalties. At such hearing, the service
supplier may appear and offer evidence why such specified tax,
interest and penalties should not be so fixed.

SC Ballot Type 000 - Page 00

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE N-Continued  3.12.320. Failure to collect and report tax—Determination of tax after hearing Notice When due.  After a hearing on the amount of tax assessed, the ■ collector shall determine the proper tax to be remitted, and ■ shall thereafter give written notice to the service supplier in- the manner prescribed above of such determination and the amount of such tax, interest and penalties. The amount determined to be due shall be payable after fifteen days unless an appeal is taken as provided in this chapter.  3.12.330. Failure to collect and report tax—Collection of faxes from service user by city—Conditions—Notice.	COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE N-Continued  requests a hearina. the Tax Administrator shall cause the matter to be set for hearing, which shall be scheduled within thirtv (301 davs after receipt of the written request for hearing. Notice of the time and place of the hearina shall be mailed bv the Tax Administrator to such person at least ten (101 calendar davs prior to the hearinq. and. if the Tax Administrator desires said person to produce specific records at such hearina. such notice mav designate the records requested to be produced.  (dl At the time fixed for the hearina. the Tax Administrator shall hear all relevant testimonv and evidence, including that of anv other interested parties. At the discretion of the Tax Administrator, the hearina mav be continued from
vvnenever ine coiiecior aeieirnines inai a service user nas	time to time for the purpose of allowing the presentation
ueiiueraieiy wunneia me arnouni ot any lax imposed on mm	of additional evidence. Within a reasonable time following
Dy ine provisions ot inis cnapier Trom me amounis remiueo 10 a service supplier required to collect the tax, or that a service	the conclusion of the hearina. the Tax Administrator shall issue a final assessment (or non-assessmentl. thereafter.
user nas Tanea to pay me arnouni ot me lax to sucn service	bv confirming, modifvinq or rejecting the original deficiencv
supplier Tor a penoo ot tout or more Dining penoos, or wnenever	determination, and shall mail a copvof such final assessment to
me coiiecior aeems n m me Desi mieresi ot me cuy, ne may relieve such service supplier of the obligation to collect taxes	the person owinq the tax. The decision of the Tax Administrator mav be appealed pursuant to Section 3.12.210 (Appealsl.
aue unaer inis cnapier Trom cenain namea service users Tor	Filina an application with the Tax Administrator and appeal to
speciTiea Dining penoos. i ne coiiecior snail noiiTy me service user that he ha3 assumed responsibility to collect the taxes due	the Citv Manaqer. or desiqnee. pursuant to Section 3.12.210 (Appealsl is a prerequisite to a suit thereon.
Tor me siaieo penoos ana aemana paymeni ot sucn laxes, pius any penalty imposed and such interest as may be due pursuant to the provisions of Sections 3.12.200 through 3.12.290. The notice shall be served on the service user by handing it to him- personally or by deposit of the notice in the United States mail, postage prepaid thereon, addressed to the service user at the address to which billing was made by the service supplier required to collect the tax; or, should the service user have changed his address, to his last known address.  3.12.180. Deficiency Determination and Assessment: Tax Application Errors.  fat The Tax Administrator may make a deficiencv determination if he or she determines that any person required to pav or collect taxes pursuant to the provisions of this chapter has failed to pav. collect, and/or remit the proper amount of tax bv improperlv applvina or failina to applv the tax to one or more taxable services or charaes. Nothina herein shall require that the Tax Administrator institute proceedinas under this Section 3.12.180 if. in the opinion of the Tax Administrator, the cost of collection or enforcement likelv outweiahs the tax benefit.  (bl The Tax Administrator shall mail a notice of such deficiencv determination to the person required to pav or remit the tax. which notice shall refer briefly to the amount of the taxes owed, plus interest at the rate of up to seventy-five one- hundredths percent fO.75%1 per month, or anv fraction thereof, on the amount of the tax from the date on which the tax should have been received bv the Citv. Within fourteen (141 calendar davs after the date of service of such notice, the person mav send a request in writina to the Tax Administrator askina for a hearing on the matter.  (cl If the person fails to request a hearina within the prescribed time period, the amount of the deficiency determination shall become a final assessment, and shall immediately be due and owina to the City. If the person	(el Pavment of the final assessment shall become delinquent if not received bv the Tax Administrator on or before the thirtieth (30th1 dav followina the date of receipt of the notice of final assessment. The penaltv for delinquency shall be up to fifteen percent (15%1 on the total amount of the assessment, alona with interest at the rate of up to seventy- five one-hundredths percent (0.75%1 per month, or anv fraction thereof, on the amount of the tax. exclusive of penalties, from the date of delinquency until paid. The applicable statute of limitations reaardina a claim bv the Citv seekina pavment of a tax assessed under this chapter shall commence from the date of delinquency as provided in this subsection (el.  (fl All notices under this chapter mav be sent bv reaular mail, postaae prepaid, and shall be deemed received on the third calendar day following the date of mailing, as established by a proof of mailing.  3.12.190. Administrative Remedy: Non-payinq Service Users.  (al Whenever the Tax Administrator determines that a service user has deliberately withheld the amount of the tax owed by the service user from the amounts remitted to a person required to collect the tax. or whenever the Tax Administrator deems it in the best interest of the City, he or she mav relieve such person of the obligation to collect the taxes due under this Section 3.12.190 from certain named service users for specific billing periods. Whenever the service user has failed to pay the amount of tax owed for a period of two (21 or more billina periods, the service supplier shall be relieved of the obliaation to collect taxes due. The service supplier shall provide the Citv with the names and addresses of such service users and the amounts of taxes owed under the provisions of this Section 3.12.190. Nothing herein shall require that the Tax Administrator institute proceedings under this Section 3.12.190

SC Ballot Type 000 - Page 00

if. in the opinion of the Tax Administrator, the cost of collection
or enforcement likely outweighs the tax benefit.

(bl In addition to the tax owed, the service user shall
pay a delinquency penalty at the rate of up to fifteen (15%l
percent of the total tax that is owed, and shall pav interest
at the rate of up to three-quarters of one (3/4%l percent
per month, or anv fraction thereof, on the amount of the tax,
exclusive of penalties, from the due date, until paid.

(c)	The Tax Administrator shall notify the nonpayino
service user that the Tax Administrator has assumed the
responsibility to collect the taxes due for the stated periods
and demand payment of such taxes, including penalties and
interest. The notice shall be served on the service user bv
personal delivery or bv deposit of the notice in the United
States mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the service user at
the address to which billing was made bv the person required
to collect the tax: or. should the service user have a change of
address, to his or her last known address.

(dl If the service user fails to remit the tax to the
Tax Administrator within thirty (30) days from the date of the
service of the notice upon him or her, the Tax Administrator
mav impose an additional penalty of fifteen (15%) percent of
the amount of the total tax that is owed.

3.12.200.__________Actions	to	Collect.

Anv tax required to be paid bv a service user under the
provisions of this chapter shall be deemed a debt owed bv the
service user to the Citv. Anv such tax collected from a service
user which has not been remitted to the Tax Administrator shall
be deemed a debt owed to the Citv bv the person required to
collect and remit and shall no longer be a debt of the service
user. Any person owing money to the City under the provisions
of this chapter shall be liable in an action brought in the name
of the Citv for the recovery of such amount, including penalties
and interest as provided for in this chapter, along with anv
collection costs incurred bv the Citv as a result of the person’s
noncompliance with this chapter, including, but not limited to.
reasonable attorney’s fees. In the event that a service user or
service supplier owing a tax under this chapter files bankruptcy,
then such debt to the Citv shall be deemed an unsecured priority
excise tax obligation under 11 U.S.C.A. Section 507(a)(8l(C).
Service suppliers who seek to collect charges for service in
bankruptcy proceedings shall also include in anv such claim the
amount of taxes due the City for those services, unless the Tax
Administrator determines that such duty is in conflict with any
federal or state law, rule, or regulation or that such action would
be administratively impractical. Anv person aggrieved bv anv
decision of the collector pursuant to this chapter may appeal to
the collector by filing a notice of appeal with the director within
fifteen days of the serving or mailing of the decision.

3.12.350.--------------Appeals—Hearing—Notice.

The director shall fix a time and place for hearing such
appeal. The director shall give notice thereof in writing to such
person by serving it personally or by depositing it in the United
States mail, postage prepaid, addressed to such person at his
last known place of address.

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE N-Continued

3.12.360.--------Appeals—Hearing—Determination.

The director shall have authority to determine all
questions raised on such appeal at the time of the hearing. No
determination so made by the director shall conflict with any
substantive provision of this chapter.

3.12.370.--------Appeals—Hearing—Penalties

suspended.

No penalty provided for in this chapter shall be imposed
after the filing of an appeal or prior to the completion of the
hearing on the appeal and the making of a determination on
the subject of the appeal bv the director.

fat The provisions of this section apply to anv
decision (other than a decision relating to a refund pursuant
to Section 3.12.230 (Refunds)), deficiency determination-
assessment. or administrative ruling of the Tax Administrator.
Anv person aggrieved bv anv decision (other than a decision
relating to a refund pursuant to Section 3.12.2301. deficiency
determination, assessment, or administrative ruling of the Tax
Administrator, shall be required to comply with the appeals
procedure of this section. Compliance with this section shall
be a prerequisite to a suit thereon. [See Government Code
Section 935(bl1. To the extent allowed bv law, nothing herein
shall permit the filing of a claim or action on behalf of a class
or group of taxpayers.

(bl If anv person is aggrieved bv anv decision
(other than a decision relating to a refund pursuant to
Section 3.12.230). deficiency determination, assessment, or
administrative ruling of the Tax Administrator: he or she mav
appeal to the Citv Manager bv filing a notice of appeal with the
Citv Clerk within fourteen (141 davs of the date of the decision,
deficiency determination, assessment, or administrative ruling
of the Tax Administrator which aggrieved the service user or
service supplier.

(cl The matter shall be scheduled for hearing before
an independent hearing officer selected bv the Citv Manager.
or designee, no more than thirty (301 davs from the receipt
of the appeal. The appellant shall be served with notice of
the time and place of the hearing, as well as anv relevant
materials, at least five (5) calendar days prior to the hearing.
The hearing may be continued from time to time upon mutual
consent. At the time of the hearing, the appealing party, the
Tax Administrator, the Citv Manager, and anv other interested
person mav present such relevant evidence as he or she mav
have relating to the determination from which the appeal is
taken.

(dl Based upon the submission of such evidence and
the review of the City’s files, the independent hearing officer
shall issue a written notice and order upholding, modifying or
reversing the determination from which the appeal is taken.
The notice shall be given within fourteen (141 davs after the
conclusion of the hearing and shall state the reasons for the
decision. The notice shall specify that the decision is final and
that anv petition for judicial review shall be filed within ninety
(901 davs from the date of the decision in accordance with
Code of Civil Procedure Section 1094.6.

(e) All notices under this section mav be sent bv regular
mail, postage prepaid, and shall be deemed received on the
third calendar dav following the date of mailing, as established
bv a proof of mailing.

3.12.380220.	Records—Retention period—Access.

It shall be the duty of every service supplier required to
collect and remit to the city any tax imposed by this chapter to
keep and preserve, for a period of three years, all records as
may be necessary to determine the amount of such tax as such
service supplier may have been required to collect and remit
to the city, which records the collector shall have the right to
inspect at all reasonable times.

tat It shall be the duty of every person required to
collect and/or remit to the City anv tax imposed bv this chapter
to keep and preserve, for a period of at least three (3) years, all
records as mav be necessary to determine the amount of such
tax that such person mav have been liable for the collection of
and remittance to the Tax Administrator, which records the Tax
Administrator shall have the right to inspect at a reasonable
time.

(b)	The Tax Administrator mav issue an administrative
subpoena to compel a person to deliver, to the Tax Administrator,
copies of all records deemed necessary bv the Tax Administrator
to establish compliance with this chapter, including the delivery
of records in a common electronic format on readily available
media if such records are kept electronically bv the person in
the usual and ordinary course of business. As an alternative to
delivering the subpoenaed records to the Tax Administrator on
or before the due date provided in the administrative subpoena,
such person mav provide access to such records outside the
City on or before the due date, provided that such person shall
reimburse the City for all reasonable travel expenses incurred
by the City to inspect those records, including travel, lodging,
meals, and other similar expenses, but excluding the normal
salary or hourly wages of those persons designated bv the City
to conduct the inspection.

(c)	The Tax Administrator is authorized to execute a
nondisclosure agreement approved bv the City Attorney to
protect the confidentiality of customer information pursuant to
California Revenue and Tax Code Sections 7284.6 and 7284.7.
The Tax Administrator may request from a person providing
transportation or distribution services of oas or electricity to
service users within the Citv. a list of the names, billing and
service addresses, quantities of gas or electricity delivered,
and other pertinent information, of its transportation customers
within the Citv pursuant to Section 6354(e) of the California
Public Utilities Code.

(d)	If a service supplier uses a billing agent or billing
aggregator to bill, collect, and/or remit the tax, the service
supplier shall: fit provide to the Tax Administrator the name-
address and telephone number of each billing agent and billing
aggregator currently authorized bv the service supplier to bill,
collect, and/or remit the tax to the Citv: and. (21 upon request
of the Tax Administrator, deliver, or effect the delivery of. any
information or records in the possession of such billing agent or
billing aggregator that, in the opinion of the Tax Administrator.

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE N-Continued

is necessary to verify the proper application, calculation,
collection and/or remittance of such tax to the City.

(el If anv person subject to record-keeping under
this chapter unreasonably denies the Tax Administrator, or
the Tax Administrator’s designated representative, access to
such records, or fails to produce the information requested in
an administrative subpoena within the time specified, the Tax
Administrator mav impose a penalty of five hundred ($500.00)
dollars on such person for each dav following: it the initial date
that the person refuses to provide such access: or. iil the due
date for production of records as set forth in the administrative
subpoena. This penalty shall be in addition to anv other penalty
imposed under this chapter.

3.12.390. Refunds/—Claim—Filing period.

Whenever the amount of any tax, interest or penalty
has been overpaid or paid more than once, or has been
erroneously or illegally collected or received by the city under
this chapter, it may be refunded as provided in this section and
Sections 3.12.400 through 3.12.420 provided a claim in writing
therefor, stating under penalty of perjury the specific grounds
upon which the claim is founded, is filed with the collector within
three years of the date of payment. The claim shall be on forms
furnished by the collector.

3.12.400.	Refunds—Service supplier refund.

A service supplier may claim a refund or take as credit
against taxes collected and remitted an amount overpaid,
paid more than once, or erroneously or illegally collected or-
received, when it is established in a manner prescribed by the
collector that the person from whom the tax has been collected
was not a service user.

3.12.410.	Refunds—Service user refund.

Any service user may obtain a refund of taxes overpaid,
ef-paid more than once, or erroneously or illegally collected or
received by the city by filing a claim in the manner provided in
Section 3.12.390, but only when the service user having paid
the tax to the service supplier establishes to the satisfaction of
the collector that the service user has been unable to obtain a
refund from the service supplier who collected the tax.

3.12.420.	Refunds—Claim—Proof required.

No refund shall be paid under the provisions of Sections
3.12.390 through 3.12.410 unless the claimant establishes
his or her right thereto by written records showing entitlement
thereter

3.12.390230.	Refunds/Credits—Claim—Filing period.

Whenever the amount of anv tax has been overpaid or paid
more than once or has been erroneously or illegally collected or
received by the Tax Administrator under this chapter, it mav be
refunded or credited as provided in this Section:

(a)	The Tax Administrator mav refund any tax that has
been overpaid or paid more than once or has been erroneously
or illegally collected or received bv the Tax Administrator under
this chapter, provided that no refund shall be paid under the
provisions of this section unless the claimant or his or her
guardian, conservator, executor, or administrator has submitted

SC Ballot Type 000 - Page 00

a written claim to the Tax Administrator within one (1) year of
the overpayment or erroneous or illegal collection of said tax.
Such claim must clearly establish claimant's right to the refund
bv written records showing entitlement thereto. To the extent
allowed by law, nothing herein shall permit the filing of a claim
on behalf of a class or group of taxpayers unless each member
of the class has submitted a written claim under penalty of
perjury as provided bv this Section 3.12.230.

(b)	The submission of a written claim, which is acted
upon bv the City Council, shall be a prerequisite to a suit
thereon. (See Section 935 of the California Government Code).
The City shall act upon the refund claim within the time period
set forth in Government Code Section 912.4. If the City fails or
refuses to act on a refund claim within the time prescribed by
Government Section 912.4. the claim shall be deemed to have
been rejected bv the City on the last dav of the period within
which the City was required to act upon the claim as provided in
Government Code Section 912.4. The Tax Administrator shall
give notice of the action in a form that substantially complies
with that set forth in Government Code Section 913.

(c)	Notwithstanding the notice provisions of subsection

(a)	of this Section 3.12.230. the Tax Administrator mav. at his
or her discretion, give written permission to a service supplier,
who has collected and remitted anv amount of tax in excess
of the amount of tax imposed bv this chapter, to claim credit
for such overpayment against the amount of tax which is
due the City upon a subsequent monthly return(s) to the Tax
Administrator, provided that, prior to taking such credit bv the
service supplier: fit such credit is claimed in a return dated no
later than one year from the date of overpayment or erroneous
collection of said tax: (2) the Tax Administrator is satisfied
that the underlying basis and amount of such credit has been
reasonably established: and. (3) in the case of an overpayment
bv a service user to the service supplier that has been remitted
to the Citv. the Tax Administrator has received proof, to his or
her satisfaction, that the overpayment has been refunded bv
the service supplier to the service user in an amount equal to
the requested credit.

3.12.240.__________No Injunction/Writ of Mandate-

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable
process shall issue in any suit, action, or proceeding in anv
court against this Citv or against anv officer of the Citv to
prevent or enjoin the collection under this chapter of anv tax
or anv amount of tax required to be collected and/or remitted.

3.12.250.__________Remedies Cumulative.

All remedies and penalties prescribed bv this chapter or
which are available under anv other provision of law or equity.
including but not limited to the California False Claims Act
(Government Code Section 12650 et seq.) and the California
Unfair Practices Act (Business and Professions Code Section
17070 et seq.1. are cumulative. The use of one (It or more
remedies bv the Citv shall not bar the use of anv other remedy
for the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this chapter.

3.12.260.__________Notice of Changes to Ordinance.

If a tax under this chapter is added, repealed, increased,
reduced, or the tax base is changed, the Tax Administrator

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE N-Continued

shall follow the notice requirements of Public Utilities Code
Section 799.

3.12.270.___________Future	Amendment	to	Cited	Statute.

Unless specifically provided otherwise, anv reference to a
State or Federal statute in this chapter shall mean such statute
as it mav be amended from time to time. To the extent that the
City’s authorization to collect or impose anv tax imposed under
this chapter is expanded or limited as a result of an amendment
or new enactment of a State or Federal law, no amendment or
modification of this chapter shall be required to conform the tax
to those changes, and the tax shall be imposed and collected
to the full extent of the authorization up to the full amount of the
tax imposed under this chapter.

3.12.280.___________Annual	Rate	Review	and	Independent

Audit of Tax Collection. Exemption-
Remittance and Expenditure.

The Citv shall annually verify that the taxes owed under
this section have been properly applied, exempted, collected.
and remitted in accordance with this section, and properly
expended according to applicable municipal law. The annual
verification shall be performed by a qualified independent third
party and the review shall employ reasonable, cost-effective
steps to assure compliance, including the use of sampling
audits. The verification shall not be required of tax remitters
where the cost of the verification mav exceed the tax revenues
to be reviewed.

3.12.290.__________No Increase in Tax Percentage or

Change in Methodology Without Voter
Approval: Amendment or Repeal.

This chapter of the Sunnwale Municipal Code mav be
repealed or amended bv the Citv Council without a vote of the
People. However, as required by Chapter XI11C of the California
Constitution, voter approval is required for anv amendment
provision that would increase the rate of anv tax levied pursuant
to this Ordinance, provided however, the following actions shall
not constitute an increase of the rate of a tax:

(a)	The restoration of the rate of the tax to a rate that
is no higher than that set bv this Ordinance, if the Citv Council
has acted to reduce the rate of the tax:

(b)	An action that interprets or clarifies the methodology
of the tax, or anv definition applicable to the tax, so Iona as
such interpretation or clarification (even if contrary to some
prior interpretation or clarification) is not inconsistent with the
language of this Ordinance:

(c)	The establishment a class of persons that is
exempt or excepted from the tax or the discontinuation of anv
such exemption or exception (other than the discontinuation
of an exemption or exception specifically set forth in this
Ordinance): and

(d)	The collection of the tax imposed bv this ordinance-
even if the Citv had, for some period of time, failed to collect
the tax.

SC Ballot Type 000 - Page 00

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE N

Vote YES on N--Protect essential Sunnyvale services without
raising tax rates!

YES on N is NOT a tax rate increase nor does it create a new tax. Yes
on N simply updates Sunnyvale’s existing, outdated, decades old utility
users tax to align with federal law and include additional technology that
didn’t exist 40 years ago, insuring all taxpayers are treated fairly and
equally, regardless of the technology they use.

Money generated by YES on N stays in Sunnyvale. All funds raised
are locally controlled, and spent only for the benefit of OUR Sunnyvale
community, keeping our taxpayer dollars local and maintaining
Sunnyvale’s financial stability.

YES on N preserves Sunnyvale’s police and fire services

YES on N preserves police response to violent crimes and property

crimes such as burglaries

YES on N funds services like pothole repairs and maintains our streets
and sidewalks

YES on N maintains our parks and open space

Sunnyvale's 24 community and neighborhood parks are essential to our
special quality of life. Sunnyvale also has a backlog of $5,000,000+ of
street and sidewalk repair projects! YES on N allows us to continue
to maintain our parks, keeping them safe and clean for our residents
to enjoy while also addressing hazards such as potholes and cracked
sidewalks.

By law, YES on N requires strict fiscal accountability including mandatory
independent fiscal audits to ensure all funds are spent efficiently and
effectively.

YES on N ensures everyone pays their fair share.

Again, YES on N does NOT increase tax rates but simply continues
existing local funding the City has relied on to maintain the services
important to you.

To keep our taxpayer dollars local and ensure tax fairness, remember to
find Sunnyvale’s Measure N on this long ballot and vote YES! For factual
information, visit Sunnyvale.ca.gov/UUTMeasure.aspx.

/s/ Glenn K. Hendricks
Mayor, City of Sunnyvale

Isl Mary J. Bradley

Retired Finance Director, City of Sunnyvale

Isl Richard Smith
Retired

Isl Laura J. Babcock
Retired

Isl Lawrence E. Stone
Assessor

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE N WAS SUBMITTED

PR-8465-14ENG

SC Ballot Type 000 - Page 00

CITY OF SUNNYVALE
CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE “	”

This measure is proposed by the Sunnyvale City Council to update the City’s existing Utility
Users Tax (“UUT”) ordinance to be consistent with current practice and modem
telecommunications technologies, so every customer is treated the same whether they use the
latest telecommunications technology or older telephone services.

The UUT is levied on utility users in the City. Sunnyvale has imposed the UUT on
telephone, gas and electric utilities since 1969. The proceeds of the UUT can only be spent on
City services and cannot be taken away by the State. Revenue generated by the tax goes to the
City's General Fund to provide essential local government services including, but not limited to
police, fire and paramedic services; street, sidewalk and tree maintenance; library, and parks and
recreation.

Since the UUT was first enacted in 1969, the definitions of telephone services and telephone
technology have changed significantly, resulting in inconsistent application of the tax. This
measure would update the UUT ordinance by incorporating definitions commonly used in the
telecommunications industry and anticipating new telecommunications technologies and
services. Wired and wireless, paid and prepaid wireless, private networks for providing such
services, and intrastate, interstate and international calls would be treated the same, regardless of
the technology used to provide those services.

In recent years, many cities have modernized the telecommuni cations part of their UUT
ordinances to respond to changes in federal law and to reflect the shift from landline telephones
to digital communication technologies such as wireless and VOIP. Approximately 90% of the
cities in the state that have a UUT use similar voter-approved definitions of telecommunications
services that are proposed in this ordinance.

The current 2% rate of the UUT will stay the same, as will the existing categories of utilities
subject to the UUT. This measure would not apply to charges for internet access, or internet
downloads of music, video and other information unrelated to telecommunications. Voter
approval would be required for any future increase in the rate or the scope of services subject to

A “yes” vote is a vote in favor of adopting the updated UUT ordinance to modernize the
telecommunications provisions and maintain the existing 2% rate. A “no” vote will leave in
place the existing UUT ordinance.

the UUT.

The ordinance will become effective if a majority of those voting on the measure vote for it.

Argument In Favor of Measure

Vote YES on_____- Protect essential Sunnyvale services without raising tax rates!

YES on____is NOT a tax rate increase nor does it create a new tax. Yes on__simply updates

Sunnyvale’s existing, outdated, decades old utility users tax to align with federal law and include
additional technology that didn’t exist 40 years ago, insuring all taxpayers are treated fairly and
equally, regardless of the technology they use.

Money generated by YES on_____stays in Sunnyvale. All funds raised are locally controlled, and

spent only for the benefit of OUR Sunnyvale community, keeping our taxpayer dollars local and
maintaining Sunnyvale’s financial stability.

YES on____preserves Sunnyvale’s police and fire services

YES on____preserves police response to violent crimes and property crimes such as burglaries

YES on____funds services like pothole repairs and maintains our streets and sidewalks

YES on____maintains our parks and open space

Sunnyvale’s 24 community and neighborhood parks are essential to our special quality of life.

Sunnyvale also has a backlog of $5,000,000+ of street and sidewalk repair projects! YES on_

allows us to continue to maintain our parks, keeping them safe and clean for our residents to
enjoy while also addressing hazards such as potholes and cracked sidewalks.

By law, YES on____requires strict fiscal accountability including mandatory independent fiscal

audits to ensure all funds are spent efficiently and effectively.

YES on____ensures everyone pays their fair share.

Again, YES on_____does NOT increase tax rates but simply continues existing local funding the

City has relied on to maintain the services important to you.

To keep our taxpayer dollars local and ensure tax fairness, remember to find Sunnyvale’s

Measure____on this long ballot and vote YES! For factual information, visit

Sunnyvale.ca.gov/UUTMeasure.aspx.

The undersigned proponent(s) or author(s) of the primary argument in favor of Ballot Measure

____at the General Municipal Election for the City of Sunnyvale to be held on November 8, 2016

hereby state that this argument is true and correct to the best of (his/her/their) knowledge and
belief.

Signed:.



Date:	~#-q/4>

Date:	(o

Date:.

Date:

Date: *7 —	(g?

[Pursuant to California Elections Code Section 9283, a ballot argument may not be accepted under this Article unless
accompanied by the printed name and signature or printed names and signatures of the author or authors submitting
it, or, if submitted on behalf of an organization, the name of the organization and the printed name and signature of at
least one of its principal officers who is the author of the argument.]

Sic	nature(s) of Author(s):		
			Official Use Only
1.	Sianature:	Residence Address:	
	Print Name:	b f 1 uc	
	Title: W^y,w	Citv: v) r\<^y 0 <5 U.	
	Organization (if submitted on behalf of):  CuVv dlT	Date: 4>	
2.	Sianature: ' l l 1,	Residence Address:	
	f)D Cs Print Name: FA dTy X dd- /^V	47 £ 6, FrMtfs Sh	
	T.H fitfirM Finding bMdvr Title. ( 	rvf ^4r\iAy	Citv: SuwwlI* . CA	
	Organization (if submitted on behalf of):	1 	y.—		(	  Date: R/d-y'ito	
3.	S ia natu  Print Name: Af	Residence Address:	
	Title:		
	I  Organization (if submitted on behalf of):	Date:	? J^/£>	
4.	Signature) 1 Print Name: gg¥<-f J* ~^4 boor	Residence Address:  f S’f5. AJepg/fr\2\ tv	
	Title:^U>  Organization (if submitted on behalf of):  		p.	—				City. Ctf) n Date: cR ’L/~ /<G	
5.	Signature: 			Residence Address:	
	V/  Print Name- QtUXbflMA € ■ *$>^1	j'&40$0<d(> AJ<i	"	
	Title:	City: 4?»i kHAM\ / Av/fcV A^V/KZ-'	
	Organization (if submitted on behalf of):	Date: .IrSCrKo	

PROPOSED AMENDMENT TO THE
SUNNYVALE MUNICIPAL CODE

The City Council of the City of Sunnyvale, on its own motion, submits to the Electors the
following amendment to the Sunnyvale Municipal Code. The City Council has called a
consolidated general election for the purpose of voting on the amendment to be held on
November 8, 2016.

The proposed amendment to the Municipal Code follows the statement of the measure.
The provisions of the Municipal Code proposed to be deleted are printed as strike out type, no
changes are printed as [Text unchanged], new numbering are printed as [Renumbered] and the
new provisions are printed as underlined type.

CITY OF SUNNYVALE MEASURE

SUNNYVALE ESSENTIAL SERVICES PROTECTION MEASURE. To maintain
Sunnyvale’s financial stability without increasing the existing 2% tax rate, and fund
essential City services including police, fire and 911 emergency response, and
pothole, street, sidewalk, and neighborhood park maintenance/repairs, shall
Sunnyvale modernize its existing utility users tax to treat telecommunication
taxpayers equally regardless of technology used, providing approximately
$1,500,000 annually on an ongoing basis, until ended by voters, with independent
audits, and all funds used locally?

YES __________

NO

If Measure__carries, Chapter 3.12 of the Sunnyvale Municipal Code shall be amended

to read as follows:

Chapter 3.12.

UTILITY USERS TAX

3.12.010.	Title.

3.12.020.	Adoption—Charter authority.

3.12.030.	Definitions.

3.12.040.	Exemptions.

3.12.050.	Conflicts.

3.12.060050. Taxes—Effective date. [Renumbered]

3.12.070060. Telephone-------users-------tax—Imposition---------Rate—

Charges.Telecommunication users tax.

3.12.080.	Telephone users tax—Exemptions and exclusions.

3.12.090.	Telephone users tax—Collection.

3.12.100.—T eleeommunieation—user—tax—Credit—for—multi-jurisdictional
taxation.

3.12.146070. Electricity users tax—Imposition—Rate. [Renumbered]

3.12.420080. Electricity users tax—Exclusions. [Renumbered]

3.12.430090. Electricity users tax—Collection. [Renumbered]

3.12.140100. Gas users tax—Imposition—Rate. [Renumbered]

3.12.150110. Gas users tax—Exclusions. [Renumbered]

3.12.100120. Gas users tax—Collection. [Renumbered]

3.12.130.	Effect of Commingling Taxable Items with Nontaxable Items

3.12.140.	Substantial Nexus/Minimum Contacts.

3.12.170.	Collection of Tax—Suit by city.

3.12.180150. Collection of Tax—Duty—Procedures. [Renumbered]

3.12.160.	Collection Penalties; Service Suppliers or Self-Collectors.

3.12.190170. Collection—of—tax—Administrative—regulationsAdditional
Powers and Duties of Tax Administrator.

3.12.200.	Delinquent taxes—When delinquent.

3.12.210.	Delinquent taxes—Sendee supplier—Penalty.

3.12.220.	Delinquent taxes—Service supplier—Fraud—Penalty.

3.12.230.	Delinquent taxes—Sendee supplier—Interest.

3.12.240.	Delinquent taxes—Service supplier—Penalty and interest part of

itiat

3.12.250.	Delinquent taxes—Sendee user—Penalty.

3.12.260^-Delinquent taxes—Senice user—Fraud—Penalty.

3.12.270.	Delinquent taxes—Sendee user—Interest.

3.12380^-Belinquent taxes—Senice -user—Penalty and interest part of tax.

3.12.290.	Delinquent taxes—Sendee user—Penalties and interest collected by

3.12.180.	Deficiency Determination and Assessment: Tax Application
Errors.

3.12.190.	Administrative Remedy; Non-paving Senice Users.

3.12.200.	Actions to Collect.

3.12.300.	Failure to—collect and report tax—Determination—of tax -by
collector—Notice.

3.12.310.	Failure to collect and report tax—Determination of tax—Hearing
application—Notice.

3.12.320.	Failure to collect and report tax—Determination of tax after
hearing—Notice—When due.

3.12.330.	Failure to collect and report tax—Collection of taxes from senice
user by city7—Conditions—Notice.

3.12.340210.	Appeals—Who may appeal.

3.12.350.	Appeals—Hearing—Notice.

3.12.360.	Appeals—Hearing—Determination.

3.12.370.	Appeals—Hearing—Penalties suspended.

3.12.380220.	Records—Retention period—Access. [Renumbered]

3.12.390230. Refunds—Claim—Filing period/Credits. [Renumbered]

3.12.400.	Refunds—Service supplier refund.

3.12.410.	Refunds—Senice user refund.

3.12.420.	Refunds—Claim—Proof required.

3.12.240.	No Injunction/Writ of Mandate.

3.12.250.	Remedies Cumulative.

3.12.260.	Notice of Changes to Ordinance.

3.12.270.	Future Amendment to Cited Statute.

3.12.280.	Annual Rate Review and Independent Audit of Tax Collection,
Exemption. Remittance and Expenditure.

3.12.290.	No Increase in Tax Percentage	of Change in Methodology

Without Voter Approval; Amendment or Repeal.

3.12.010.	Title.

[Text unchanged.]

3.12.020.	Adoption—Charter authority.

[Text unchanged]

3.12.030.	Definitions.

Except where the context otherwise requires, the definitions contained in
this section shall govern the construction of this chapter. The word “may” is
always directory and discretionary and not mandatory; the word “shall” is always
mandatory and not directory or discretionary.

11) “Ancillary________telecommunications_______services”_____Ancillary

telecommunication services shall mean services that are associated with or
incidental to the provision, use or enjoyment of telecommunications services,
including but not limited to the following services:

(a^ “Conference bridging service” shall mean an ancillary
service that links two (2} or more participants of an audio or video conference call
and may include the provision of a telephone number. Conference bridging
service does not include the telecommunications services used to reach the
conference bridge.

lb) “Detailed telecommunications billing service” shall mean
an ancillary service of separately stated information pertaining to individual calls
on a customer's billing statement.

(c) “Directory assistance” shall mean an ancillary service of
providing telephone number information, and/or address information.

id) “Vertical service” shall mean an ancillary service that is
offered in connection with one (1) or more telecommunications services, which
offers advanced calling features that allow customers to identify callers and to
manage multiple calls and call connections, including conference bridging
services.

(e)	“Voice mail service” shall mean an ancillary service that
enables the customer to store, send or receive recorded messages. Voice mail
service does not include any vertical services that the customer may be required to
have in order to utilize the voice mail service.

(2} “Billing address” shall mean the mailing address of the service
user where the service provider submits invoices or bills for payment by the
service users.

(3) “City” means the city of Sunnyvale. California, including all of the
territory and jurisdiction thereof as presently constituted, and any and all of the
same which shall later come into existence by any manner or means whatsoever.

(2)	(4) “Collector” means the director of finance or designee of the city of
Sunnyvale.

(3)	(5) “Director” means the director of finance of the city of Sunnyvale.

—('1) “Intrastate telecommunication” means all telecommunications regardless of
routing that either (i) originate in the city and terminate in the state, or (ii)
originate in the state and terminate in the city, where, in either instance, a billing
address for the telecommunication service user is in the city.

(#6) “Large commercial/agricultural ratepayer” shall mean electric
customers who have a maximum peak demand equal to or greater than twenty
kilowatts.

(67) “Paging service” means a telecommunications service that provides
transmission of coded radio signals for the purpose of activating specific pagers;
such transmissions may include messages and/or sounds.

(8)	“Person” means any natural person, firm, all domestic, nonprofit and
foreign corporations^ firm; association;^ syndicates^; joint ventures^; joint stock
company; clubsr; trust: Massachusetts or common law trusts^ estates^; partnership
of any kind;, limited liability company;^ cooperatives societyiess and any officer,
agent, receiver, trustee, guardian or other appointed representative thereof; joint
power agency, municipal district or municipal corporation, other than the City.

(9)	“Place of primary use” shall mean the street address representative
of where the customer's use of the telecommunications or video service primarily
occurs, which must be the residential street address or the primary business street
address of the customer.

(10)	“Post-paid telecommunication service” shall mean the
telecommunication service obtained by making a payment on a communication-
bv-communication basis either through the use of a credit card or payment
mechanism such as a bank card, travel card, credit card, or debit card, or by
charge made to a service number which is not associated with the origination or
termination of the telecommunication service.

(11)	“Prepaid telecommunication service” shall mean the right to access
telecommunication services, which must be paid for in advance and which
enables the origination of communications using an access number or
authorization code, whether manually or electronically dialed, and shall include
“prepaid mobile telephony services” as defined in Revenue and Taxation Code

Section 42004(10.

(12)	“Private telecommunication service” shall mean a
telecommunication service that entitles the customer to exclusive or priority use
of a communications channel or group of channels between or among termination
points, regardless of the manner in which such channel or channels are connected,
and includes switching capacity, extension lines, stations, and any other
associated services that are provided in connection with the use of such channel or
channels. A communications channel is a physical or virtual path of
communications over which signals are transmitted between or among customer
channel termination points (i.e„ the location where the customer either inputs or
receives the communications).

(713) “Residential/small commercial ratepayer” shall mean electric
customers who have a maximum peak demand of less than twenty kilowatts.

(14) Service address shall mean the residential street address or the
business street address of the service user. For a telecommunications service user,
"service address” means either:

(a)	The location of the service user’s telecommunication
equipment from which the communication originates or terminates, regardless of
where the communication is billed or paid; or,

(b)	If the location in paragraph a. of this definition is unknown
(e.g„ mobile telecommunications service or VoIP service), the service address
shall mean the location of the service user's place of primary use.

(c)	For prepaid telecommunication service, “service address”
means the point of sale of the services where the point of sale is within the City,
or if unknown, the known address of the service user (e.g., billing address or
location associated with the service number), which locations shall be presumed
to be the place of primary use.

(&J_5) “Service supplier” means any person including the City, who
provides or sells telecommunication, electric, or gas service to a user of such
services within the City. The term shall include any person required to collect, or
self-collect under this chapter, and remit a tax as imposed by this chapter,
including its billing agent in the case of electric or gas suppliers, required to
collect a tax under the provisions of this chapter.

(916) “Service user” means a person required to pay a tax imposed under
the provisions of this chapter.

(4917) “Tax administrator” means the director of finance or designee of
the city of Sunnyvale.

44418) ’’Telephone communication “Telecommunication services” means
“communication services” as defined in Sections )251 and 4252 of the Internal

Revenue Code and the regulations thereunder, as those Sections were interpreted
by the Internal Revenue Service before May 25, 2006, and shall include any
telephonic quality communication that is interconnected to a public switched
network, and shall include, without limitation, transmissions (including but not
limited to, voice, telegraph, teletypewriter, data, facsimile, video or text) by
electronic, radio, or similar means through “interconnected service” with the
“public switched network,” as these terms are commonly used in the Federal
Communications Act, 47 U.S.C.A. Section 332(d) and the regulations of the
Federal Communications Commission, whether such transmission occurs by wire,
cable, fiber optic, light wave, laser, microwave, radio wave, including, but not
limited to cellular service, commercial mobile sendee, personal communications
service (PCS), specialized mobile radio (SMR), and other types of personal
wireless service telecommunications (see M -C.S.C.A. Section 332(c)(8)(C)(i),
regardless of the radio spectrum used, switching facilities, satellite or any other
similar facilities, the transmission, conveyance, or routing of voice, data, audio,
video, or any other information or signals to a point, or between or among points,
whatever the technology used, and includes broadband service (e.g.. digital
subscriber line (DSL), fiber optic, coaxial cable, and wireless broadband,
including Wi-Fi, WiMAX. and Wireless MESH) to the extent federal and/or state
law permits taxation of such broadband services, now or in the future. The term
"telecommunications service" includes such transmission, conveyance, or routing
in which computer processing applications are used to act on the form, code or
protocol of the content for purposes of transmission, conveyance or routing
without regard to whether such service is referred to as voice over internet
protocol (VoIP) services or is classified by the Federal Communications
Commission as enhanced or value added, and includes video and/or data service
that is functionally	integrated	with	"telecommunication services".

Telecommunications services include, but is not limited to the following services,
regardless of the manner or basis on which such services are calculated or billed:
ancillary telecommunication services; intrastate, interstate and international
telecommunication	services;	ah forms of VoIP	service; mobile

telecommunications service; prepaid telecommunication service; post-paid
telecommunication service; private telecommunication service; paging service;
800 service (or any other toll-free numbers designated by the Federal
Communications Commission); 900 service (or any other similar numbers
designated by the Federal Communications Commission for services whereby
subscribers who call in to prerecorded or live service).

(19)	“VoIP (Voice Over Internet Protocol)” means the digital process of
making and receiving real-time voice transmissions over any Internet Protocol
network.

(20)	“800 Service” means a “telecommunications service” that allows a

caller to dial a toll-free number without incurring a charge for the call. The
service is typically marketed under the name “800.” “855,” “866.” “877.” and
“888” toll-free calling, and any subsequent numbers designated by the Federal

Communications Commission.

(21)	“900	Service”	means	an	inbound	toll	“telecommunications

service” purchased by a subscriber that allows the subscriber’s customers to call
in to the subscriber’s prerecorded announcement or live service. “900 service”
does not include the charge for: collection services provided by the seller of the
“telecommunications services” to the subscriber, or service or product sold by the
subscriber to the subscriber’s customer. The service is typically marketed under
the name “900” service, and any subsequent numbers designated by the Federal
Communications Commission.

3.12.040.	Exemptions.

Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed as imposing a tax
upon the city, or any person when imposition of such tax upon that person would
be in violation of the Constitution of the United States or that of the state of
California, (a) The taxes imposed by this chapter shall not apply to:

(1)	Any person or service if imposition of such tax upon that
person or service would be in violation of a Federal or State statute or the
Constitution of the State of California, or the Constitution of the United States; or

(2)	The City, and the State of California and its subdivisions.

(b)	Any service user that is exempt from the tax imposed by this
chapter pursuant to subsection (a) of this Section shall file an application with the
Tax Administrator for an exemption; provided, however, this requirement shall
not apply to a service user that is a State or Federal agency or subdivision with a
commonly recognized name for such service. Said application shall be made upon
a form approved by the Tax Administrator and shall state those facts, declared
under penalty of perjury, which qualify the applicant for an exemption, and shall
include the names of all service suppliers serving that service user. If deemed
exempt by the Tax Administrator, such service user shall give the Tax
Administrator timely written notice of any change in service suppliers so that the
Tax Administrator can properly notify the new service supplier of the service
user’s tax exempt status. A service user that fails to apply and obtain an
exemption pursuant to this Section 3.12.040 shall not be entitled to a refund of a
users tax collected and remitted to the Tax Administrator from such service user
as a result of such noncompliance.

(c)	The decision of the Tax Administrator regarding an exemption
application may be appealed pursuant to Section 3.12.210 (Appeals) of this
chapter. Filing an application with the Tax Administrator and appeal to the City
Manager, or designee, pursuant to Section 3.12.210 is a prerequisite to a suit
thereon.

(d)	The City Council may, by resolution, establish one or more classes
of persons or one or more classes of utility service otherwise subject to payment
of a tax imposed by this chapter and provide that such classes of persons or

service shall be exempt, in whole or in part from such tax for a specified period of
time.

3.12.050.	Conflicts. Nothing contained in this chapter is intended to conflict with
applicable rules, regulations and tariffs of any service supplier subject to the
jurisdiction of the California Public Utilities Commission. In the event of any
conflict, the provisions of said rules, regulations and tariffs shall control.

3.12.0560.	Taxes—Effective date.

[Text unchanged].

3.12.0703.12.060. Telephone Telecommunication users tax.

—Imposition Rate—Charges.

(a)	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person in the City, other
than a telephone corporation, using intrastate telecommunication services in the
city. The tax imposed by this section and Sections 3.12.080 through 3.12.100
shall be at the rate of two percent of the charges made for intrastate telephone
communication such services, and shall be collected from the service user by the
telephone communication telecommunication services provider supplier or its
billing agent, or as otherwise provided by law. To the extent allowed by law, the
tax on intrastate telephone communication services shall apply to a service user if
the billing or service address of the -service user is within the city’s boundaries. If
the billing address of the service user is different from the service address, the
service address of the service user shall be used. There is a rebuttable presumption
that telecommunication services, which are billed to a billing or service address in
the City, are used, in whole or in part, within the City's boundaries, and such
services are subject to taxation under this section. There is also a rebuttable
presumption that prepaid telecommunication services sold within the city are
primarily used, in whole or in part, within the City and are therefore subject to
taxation under this Section. If the billing address of the service user is different
from the service address, the service address of the service user shall be used for
purposes of imposing the tax. As used in this section, the term "charges" shall
include the value of any other services, credits, property of every kind or nature,
or other consideration provided by the service user in exchange for the
telecommunication services.

(b)	“Telephone communications services” shall not include “private
mobile radio service,” as defined in Part 20 of the Title '17 of the Code of Federal
Regulations, or “private mobile service,” as defined in 47 U.S.C.A. Section 332

(d), which is not interconnected to a public switched network. The tax imposed
under this chapter shall not be imposed upon any person for using intrastate
telephone communication services to the extent that pursuant to Sections 1252
and—43d3—of the—Internal—Revenue—Code,—the—amounts—paid—for—sueh
communication services are exempt from or are not subject to the tax imposed
under Section 1251 of the Internal Revenue Code, as these sections were
interpreted by the Internal Revenue Service prior to May 25, 2006. In the event
that the federal excise tax on “communications services” as provided in Sections

1251,1252, and 1253 of the Internal Revenue Code is subsequently modified, any
reference in this Chapter or in any administrative ruling to such law, including
any related federal regulations, private letter rulings, case law, and other opinions
interpreting these sections, shall refer to that body of law as those sections were
interpreted by the—Internal—Revenue—Service prior to—May——2006.(b)

_______"Mobile	telecommunications service’1 shall be sourced in accordance with

the sourcing rules set forth in the Mobile Telecommunications Sourcing Act (4
U.S.C. Section 124). The Tax Administrator may issue and disseminate to
telecommunication service suppliers, which are subject to the tax collection
requirements of this section, sourcing rules for the taxation of other
telecommunication services, including	but not limited to	post-paid

telecommunication services, prepaid telecommunication services, and private
telecommunication services, provided that such rules are based upon custom and
common practice that further administrative efficiency and minimize multi-
jurisdictional taxation.

(c)	The tax administrator may, from time to time, issue and
disseminate to telecommunication service suppliers, which are subject to the tax
collection requirements of this chapter, an administrative ruling identifying those
telecommunications services, or charges for such services, that are subject to
taxation under this chapter. These administrative rulings shall implement the
intent of the City Council that the telecommunications users tax be imposed on
any person who initiates or receives telecommunications without regard to the
type of technology that exists on the effective date of this section of which may be
developed in the future. The administrative rules shallremain in effect unless
altered or amended by the tax administrator and these administrative rulings shall
continue to be consistent with applicable legal requirements, including any federal
e-xeise-t-ax rules, regulations, and laws pertaining to “communications services” as
interpreted by the Internal Revenue Service before May 25. 2006not impose a
new tax, revise an existing tax methodology as stated in this section, or increase
an existing tax, except as allowed by California Government Code sections
53750(hY2)(AT

(d)	As used in this section, the term “charges” shall also include the value
of any other services, credits, property of every kind or nature, or other
c-ensideration provided by the service user in exchange for the telecommunication
services including (i) all monthly recurring charges for calling features purchased
by the user; (ii) monthly service charges for services including foreign exchange
service; (iii) charges for special listings in the white pages of the telephone
directory; (iv) charges for non published (unlisted) numbers; (v) directory
assistance charges; (vi) message unit or zone rate charges; (vii) repair charges;
and (viii) toll or long distance messages. If a non taxable service and a taxable
service are billed together under a single charge, the entire charge shall be deemed
taxable unless the service provider can reasonably identify charges not subject to
the utility users tax based upon its books and records that are kept in the regular
course of business, which shall be consistent with generally accepted accounting

principles.(e) As used in this section, the term “charges” shall not, however,
include:

(i)	customer deposits;

(ii)	directory (Yellow Pages) advertising;

(iii)	rental or sale of directories, reverse directories;

(iv)	all charges for maritime mobile services as defined in Section 2.1 ef
Title M of the Code of Federal Regulations;

(v)	private line service charges;

(vi)	PBX charges (excluding trunk charges);

(vii)	all charges made for Universal Life Line services; and

(viii)	services paid for by inserting coins in coin operated telephonesHcl)

________As used in this Section, the term “telecommunication services” shall

include, but is not limited to, charges for: connection, reconnection, termination
or early termination charges: movement or change of telecommunication services:
late payment fees: detailed billing: central office and custom calling features
(including but not limited to call waiting, call forwarding, caller identification and
three-way calling); voice mail and other messaging services: directory assistance;
access and line charges: universal service charges: fees, charges or surcharges,
which are imposed by any state or federal agency or law (whether such fees,
charges or surcharges are imposed on the service supplier or the customer); local
number portability charges; and text and instant messaging. “Telecommunication
services” shall not include digital downloads that are not “ancillary
telecommunication services,” such as music, ringtones, games, and similar digital
products.

(e)	To prevent actual multi-jurisdictional taxation of
telecommunication services subject to tax under this section, any service user,
upon proof to the Tax Administrator that the service user has previously paid the
same tax in another state or city on such telecommunication services, shall be
allowed a credit against the tax imposed to the extent of the amount of such tax
legally imposed in such other State or City: provided, however, the amount of
credit shall not exceed the tax owed to the City under this section.

(f)	The tax on telecommunication services imposed by this section
shall be collected from the service user by the service supplier. The amount of tax
collected in one (1) month shall be remitted to the Tax Administrator, and must be
received by the Tax Administrator on or before the twentieth (20th) day of the
following month.

3.12,080.	Telephone users tax—Exemptions and exclusions.

Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 3.12.070, the tax imposed under
Sections 3.12.070 through 3.12.100 shall not be imposed upon any person for
using telecommunication services to the extent that the amounts paid for such
services are exempt from or not subject to the tax imposed under Section /I251 of
the Internal Revenue Code, as that Section was interpreted by the Internal
Revenue Service before May 25, 2006, or under Part 20 (commencing with
Section 41001) of Division 2 of the California Revenue and Taxation Code, and

the regulations thereunder, except for the following charges, which are taxable
under this section:

(a)	Charges to a service user by a hotel—er motel for intrastate
telecommunication sendees used in the city when-such charges are incidental to
the right of occupancy in such hotel or motel. Collection of the tax shall be the
responsibility of the hotel or motel; and

(b)	Charges to a service user in the city by a telecommunication services
provider, including but not limited to an alternative or nontraditienal- telephone
service provider, a private communication service provider, or a competitive
access provider, for providing intrastate telecommunication services used in the

3.12.090.	Telephone users tax—Collection.

The tax imposed in this section and Sections 3.12.070 through 3.12.090
shall be collected from the service user by the person providing the intrastate
telephone communication services. The amount of tax collected in one month
shall be remitted to the collector on or before the last day of the following month.

3.12.100.	—T elecommunication—user—tax—Credit—for—multi-jurisdictional
taxation.

—To prevent actual multi-jurisdictional taxation of intrastate telecommunication
services subject to tax under Sections 3.12.060 through 3.12.090, any service
user, upon proof to the collector that the service user has previously paid the same
tax in another city on such intrastate telecommunication sendee, shall be allowed
a credit against the tax imposed to the extent of the amount of such tax legally
imposed in such other city; provided, however, the amount of credit shall not
exceed the tax owed to the city under Sections 3.12.060 through 3.12.090. (Ord.
2688 01 § 6).

3.12.1103.12.070.	Electricity users tax—Imposition—Rate.

[Renumbered; text unchanged]

3.12.1203.12.080.	Electricity users tax—Exclusions.

[Renumbered; text unchanged]

3.12.1303.12.090.	Electricity users tax—Collection.

[Renumbered; text unchanged]

3.12.1403.12.100.	Gas users tax—Imposition—Rate.

[Renumbered; text unchanged]

3.12.1503.12.110.	Gas users tax—Exclusions.

[Renumbered; text unchanged]

3.12.1603.12.120. Gas users tax—Collection.

[Renumbered; text unchanged]

3.12.130.	Effect of Commingling Taxable Items with Nontaxable Items.

If any non-taxable service charges are combined with and not separately
stated from taxable service charges on the customer bill or invoice of a service
supplier, the combined charge is subject to tax unless the service supplier is able
to establish reasonable values for the portions of the combined charge that are
nontaxable and taxable. If the service supplier offers a combination of taxable
and non-taxable services, and the charges are separately stated, the service
supplier shall assign reasonable values for the taxable and non-taxable services.
In assigning reasonable values for taxable and non-taxable services under this
Section 3.12.130. the service supplier may use reasonable and verifiable
standards, as approved by the Tax Administrator, such as:	(i) the books and

records kept in the regular course of business and in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles (not created and maintained for tax purposes'); (if)
the market value of such taxable and non-taxable services when offered on a
stand-alone basis by the supplier or its competitors; or (in) other similar evidence
of value. The service supplier has the burden of proving to the satisfaction of the
Tax Administrator the reasonable valuation and proper apportionment of taxable
and non-taxable charges under this Section 3.12.130.

3.12.140._____Substantial Nexus/Minimum Contacts.

For purposes of imposing a tax or establishing a duty to collect and remit a
tax under this Article, “substantial nexus”, “substantial economic presence”, and
“minimum contacts” shall be construed broadly in favor of the imposition,
collection and/or remittance of the utility users tax to the fullest extent permitted
by State and Federal law, and as it may change from time to time by judicial
interpretation or by statutory enactment. Any telecommunication service
(including VoIP) used by a person with a service address in the City shall be
subject to a rebuttable presumption that “substantial nexus/minimum contacts”
exists for purposes of imposing a tax, or establishing a duty to collect and remit a
tax, under this Chapter. A service supplier shall be deemed to have sufficient
activity in the City for tax collection and remittance purposes if its activities
include, but are not limited to. any of the following: maintains or has within the
City, directly or through an agent, affiliate or subsidiary, a place of business of
any nature; solicits business in the City by employees, independent contractors,
resellers, agents, affiliates or other representatives; solicits business in the City on
a continuous, regular, seasonal or systematic basis by means of advertising that is
broadcast or relayed from a transmitter within the City or distributed from a
location with the City; or advertises in newspapers or other periodicals printed
and published within the City or through materials distributed in the City by
means other than the United States mail; or if there are activities performed in the
City on behalf of the service supplier that are significantly associated with the
service supplier’s ability to establish and maintain a market in the City for the
provision of utility services that are subject to a tax under this Chapter (e.g.. an
affiliated person or independent contractor engaging in activities in the City that
inure to the benefit of the service supplier in its development or maintenance of a
market for its services in the City, including by directly or indirectly referring
potential customers, whether by a link on an internet website or otherwise, to the

service supplier).

3.12.170. Collection of Tax—Suit by city. Any tax required to be paid by a
service user under the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed a debt owed by
the service user to the city. Any such tax collected from a service user which has
not been remitted to the collector shall be deemed a debt owed to the city by the
person required to collect and remit. Any person owing money to the city under
the provisions of this chapter shall be liable to an action brought in the name of
the city for the recovery of such amount.

3.12.1803.12.150. Collection of Tax—Duty—Procedures. The—duty to
collect and remit the taxes imposed by this chapter shall be performed as follows:
—(a) The tax shall be collected insofar as practicable at the same time as and
along with the charges made in accordance with regular billing practice of the
service supplier. Except in these cases where a-service user pays the full amount
of said charges but does not pay any portion of a tax imposed by this chapter, or
where a service user has notified a service supplier that he is refusing to pay a tax
imposed by this chapter which the supplier is required to collect, if the amount
paid by a service user is less than the full amount of the charge and tax which has
accrued for the billing period, a proportionate share of both the charge and the tax
shall be deemed to have been paid.

—(b) The duty to collect tax from a service user shall commence with the
beginning of the first regular-billing period applicable to that person which starts
on or after the operative date of this chapter. Where a person receives more than
one billing, one or more being for different periods than another, the duty to
collect shall arise separately for each billing period.

(a)	Collection by Service Suppliers. The duty of service suppliers to
collect and remit the taxes imposed by the provisions of this chapter shall be
performed as follows:

(1)	The tax shall be collected by service suppliers insofar as
practicable at the same time as. and along with, the collection of the charges made
in accordance with the regular billing practice of the service supplier. Where the
amount paid by a service user to a service supplier is less than the full amount of
the charge and tax that was accrued for the billing period, a proportionate share of
both the charge and the tax shall be deemed to have been paid. In those cases
where a service user has notified the service supplier of refusal to pay the tax
imposed on said charges. Section 3.12.190 (Administrative Remedy) shall apply.

(2)	The duty of a service supplier to collect the tax from a
service user shall commence with the beginning of the first regular billing period
applicable to the service user where all charges normally included in such regular
billing are subject to the provisions of this chapter. Where a person receives more
than one (11 billing, one (1) or more being for different periods than another, the
duty to collect shall arise separately for each billing period.

(b)	Filing Return and Payment. Each person required by this chapter to
remit a tax shall file a return to the Tax Administrator, on forms approved by the

Tax Administrator, on or before the due date. The full amount of the tax collected
shall be included with the return and filed with the Tax Administrator. The Tax
Administrator is authorized to require such additional information as he or she
deems necessary to determine if the tax is being levied, collected, and remitted in
accordance with this chapter. Returns are due immediately upon cessation of
business for any reason. Pursuant to Revenue and Tax Code Section 7284.6, the
Tax Administrator, and its agents, shall maintain such filing returns as
confidential information that is exempt from the disclosure provisions of the
California Public Records Act.

3.12.160.______Collection Penalties; Service Suppliers or Self-Collectors.

(a)	Taxes collected from a service user are delinquent if not received
by the Tax Administrator on or before the due date. Should the due date occur on
a weekend or legal holiday, the return must be received by the Tax Administrator
on the first regular working day following the weekend or legal holiday. A direct
deposit, including electronic fund transfers and other similar methods of
electronically exchanging monies between financial accounts, made by a service
supplier in satisfaction of its obligations under this Section shall be considered
timely if the transfer is initiated on or before the due date, and the transfer settles
into the City's account on the following business day.

(b)	If the person required to collect and/or remit the utility users tax
fails to collect the tax (by failing to properly assess the tax on one (1) or more
services or charges on the customer’s billing) or fails to remit the tax collected on
or before the due date, the Tax Administrator shall attach a penalty for such
delinquencies or deficiencies at the rate of up to fifteen (15%) percent of the total
tax that is delinquent or deficient in the remittance, and shall pay interest at the
rate of up to 75/100ths (0.75%) percent per month, or any fraction thereof, on the
amount of the tax, exclusive of penalties, from the date on which the remittance
first become delinquent, until paid.

(c)	The Tax Administrator shall have the power to impose additional
penalties upon persons required to collect and remit taxes pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter for fraud or gross negligence in reporting or remitting at
the rate of up to fifteen (15%) percent of the amount of the tax collected and/or
required to be remitted, or as recomputed by the Tax Administrator.

(d)	For collection purposes only, every penalty imposed and such
interest that is accrued under the provisions of this section shall become a part of
the tax herein required to be paid.

(e)	Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Tax Administrator may, in his
or her discretion, modify the due dates and/or penalty and interest provisions of
this section to be consistent with any uniform standards or procedures that are
mutually agreed upon by UUT public agencies, or otherwise legally established,
to create a UUT central payment location or mechanism.

3.12.1903.12.170. Collection--------------of-------------tax—Administrative

regulationsAdditional Powers and Duties of the Tax Administrator. The

director may make administrative agreements to vary the strict requirements-ef
this chapter so that collection of any tax imposed herein may be made in
conformance with the billing procedures of a particular service supplier so long -as
the overall result of said agreements results in collection of tax in conformance
with the general purpose and scope of this chapter. A copy of each such
agreement shall be on file and available for public examination in the director’s
office.

(a)	The Tax Administrator shall have the power and duty, and is
hereby directed, to enforce each and all of the provisions of this chapter.

fb) The Tax Administrator may adopt administrative rules and
regulations consistent with provisions of this chapter for the purpose of
interpreting, clarifying, carrying out and enforcing the payment, collection and
remittance of the taxes herein imposed. The administrative ruling shall not impose
a new tax, revise an existing tax methodology as stated in this chapter, or increase
an existing tax, except as allowed by California Government Code Section
53750(h)(2). A copy of such administrative rules and regulations shall be on file
in the Tax Administrator’s office. To the extent that the Tax Administrator
determines that the tax imposed under this chapter shall not be collected in full for
any period of time from any particular service supplier or service user, that
determination shall be considered an exercise of the Tax Administrator’s
discretion to settle disputes and shall not constitute a change in taxing
methodology for purposes of Government Code Section 53750 or otherwise. The
Tax Administrator is not authorized to amend the City’s methodology for
purposes of Government Code Section 53750 and the City does not waive or
abrogate its ability to impose the utility users tax in full as a result of
promulgating administrative rulings or entering into agreements.

(c)	Upon a proper showing of good cause, the Tax Administrator may
make administrative agreements, with appropriate conditions, to vary from the
strict requirements of this chapter and thereby; (1) conform to the billing
procedures of a particular service supplier so long as said agreements result in the
collection of the tax in conformance with the general purpose and scope of this
chapter; or. (2) to avoid a hardship where the administrative costs of collection
and remittance greatly outweigh the tax benefit. A copy of each such agreement
shall be on file in the Tax Administrator's office, and are voidable by the Tax
Administrator or the City at anv time.

(d)	The Tax Administrator may conduct an audit, to ensure proper
compliance with the requirements of this chapter, of anv person required to
collect and/or remit a tax pursuant to this chapter. The Tax Administrator shall
notify said person of the initiation of an audit in writing. In the absence of fraud
or other intentional misconduct, the audit period or review shall not exceed a

period of three (3 ) years next preceding the date of receipt of the written notice by
said person from the Tax Administrator. Upon completion of the audit, the Tax
Administrator may make a deficiency determination pursuant to Section 3.12.180
(Deficiency Determination and Assessment; Tax Application Errors) for all taxes
(and applicable penalties and interest) owed and not paid, as evidenced by
information provided by such person to the Tax Administrator. If said person is
unable or unwilling to provide sufficient records to enable the Tax Administrator
to verify compliance with this chapter, the Tax Administrator is authorized to
make a reasonable estimate of the deficiency. Said reasonable estimate shall be
entitled to be a rebuttable presumption of correctness.

(et	Upon receipt of a written request of a taxpayer, and for good cause,

the Tax Administrator may extend the time for filing any statement required
pursuant to this chapter for a period of not to exceed forty-five (45t days,
provided that the time for filing the required statement has not already passed
when the request is received. No penalty for delinquent payment shall accrue by
reason of such extension. Interest shall accrue during said extension at the rate of
three-quarters of one (3/4%) percent per month, prorated for any portion thereof.

(f)	The Tax Administrator shall determine the eligibility of any person
who asserts a right to exemption from, or a refund of. the tax imposed by this
chapter.

(at The City may compromise a claim filed pursuant to this chapter
consistent with the provisions of the City Charter and section 2.04.030 of the
Sunnyvale Municipal Code.

(hi Notwithstanding any provision in this chapter to the contrary, the
Tax Administrator may waive any penalty or interest imposed upon a person
required to collect and/or remit for failure to collect the tax imposed by this
chapter if the non-collection occurred in good faith. In determining whether the
non-collection was in good faith, the Tax Administrator shall take into
consideration the uniqueness of the product or service, industry practice or other
precedence, or whether the person offers to voluntarily disclose its tax liability.
The Tax Administrator may also participate with other utility users tax public
agencies in conducting coordinated compliance reviews with the goal of
achieving administrative efficiency and uniform tax application determinations.
where possible. To encourage voluntary full disclosure and on-going cooperation
on tax collection and remittance, the Tax Administrator, and its agents, may enter
into agreements with the tax-collecting service providers and grant prospective
only effect on any changes regarding the taxation of services or charges that were
previously deemed by the service provider, in good faith and without gross
negligence, to be non-taxable. In determining whether the non-collection was in
good faith and without gross negligence, the Tax Administrator shall take into
consideration the uniqueness of the product or service, industry practice or other
precedence, and whether the disclosure was voluntarily made by the service

provider or its agent.

3.12.200^ Delinquent taxes—When delinquent. Taxes collected from a service
user which are not remitted to the collector on or before the due dates provided in
this chapter are delinquent.

3.12.210;—Delinquent—taxes—Service—supplier—Penalty.—In—addition—t©
remitting the amount of the tax, any service supplier who fails to remit any tax
imposed-by this chapter withi-n-the time required and upon five days written
notice to the service supplier of its failure to remit, shall pay a penalty of ten
percent -ef the amount of the-t-ax which-shal-1- be added on the last day of each
month following the date on which remittance was due until the tax and penalties
are remitted—Provided, howeverT that the total amount of the monthly penalties
shall not exceed the total amount of the tax due.

3.12.220.—Delinquent—taxes—Service—supplier—Fraud—Penalty.—If—the

collector determines that the nonpayment by any service supplier of any
remittance due under this chapter is due to fraud, a penalty of twenty five percent
of the amount- of the tax shall be added thereto in addition to the penalties stated
in Section 3.12.210.

3.12.230. Delinquent taxes—Service supplier—Interest. In addition to the
penalties-i-m-posed by Sections 3.12.210 and 3.12.220, any service supplier who
fails to remit any tax imposed by this chapter shall pay interest at the rate of one
percent per month, or fraction thereof, on the amount of the tax, exclusive of
penalties, from the date on which the remittance first became delinquent until
paid.

3.12.240.	Delinquent taxes—Service supplier—Penalty and interest part of
tax. Every penalty imposed upon a service supplier and such interest as accrues,
under the provisions of Sections 3.12.210 to 3.12.230, inclusive, shall become a
part of the tax required to be remitted.

3.12.250. Delinquent taxes—Service user—Penalty. In addition to paying the
amount of the tax, any service user who fails to pay any tax imposed by this
chapter within thirty days of the date of the receipt of notice of the amount of tax
due from the service supplier shall pay a penalty of-ten percent of the amount of
the tax which shall be added on the last day of each month following the date on
which payment was due until the tax and penalties are paid. Provided, however,
that the total amount of the monthly penalties shall not exceed the total amount of
the tax due.

3.12.260. Delinquent taxes—Service user—Fraud—Penalty. If the collector
determines that the nonpayment by any service user of any tax imposed by this
chapter is due to fraud, a penalty of twenty five percent of the amount of the tax
shall be added thereto in addition to the penalties stated in Section 3.12.250.

3H2.270. Delinquent taxes—Service user—Interest.

—In addition to the penalties imposed by Sections 3.12.250 and 3.12.260, any
service user who fails to pay any tax imposed by this chapter, shall pay interest at
the rate of one percent per month, or fraction thereof, exclusive of penalties, from
the date on which the remittance first became delinquent until paid, and a
collection charge of ten dollars for each delinquent account.

3.12.280.	Delinquent taxes—Service user—Penalty and interest part of tax.

—Every penalty imposed, and such interest as accrues upon a service user, under
the provisions of Sections 3.12.250 to 3.12.270, inclusive, shall become a part of
the tax required to be paid.

3.12.290.	Delinquent taxes—Service user—Penalties and interest collected by

UlJ*

—The penalties, interest, and collection charges imposed in Sections 3.12.250 to

3.12.270,	inclusive, shall not be collected by the service supplier, but by the city.

3.12.300.	Failure to—collect and—report tax—Determination—of tax by
collector—Notice.

—If any service supplier fails to make, within the time provided in this chapter,
any report and remittance ef the tax or any portion thereof required by this
chapter, the collector shall proceed in such manner as he may deem best to obtain
facts and information on which to base his estimate of the tax due. As soon as the
collector shall procure such facts and information as he is able to obtain upon
which to base the assessment of any tax imposed by this chapter and payable by
a-n-y-sei-vice supplier who has failed or refused to make such report and remittance,
he shall proceed to determine and assess against such service supplier the tax,
interest and penalties provided for by this chapter. In case such determination is
made, the collector shall give a notice of the amount so assessed by serving it
persenaH-y or by depositing it in the United States mail, postage prepaid,
addressed to the service supplier so assessed at his last known place of address.

3.12.310.	Failure to collect and report tax—Determination of tax—Hearing
application—Notice.

—The service supplier may within ten days after the serving or mailing of the
notice referred to in Section 3.12.300 make application in writing to the collector
for a hearing on the amount assessed. If application by the sendee supplier for a
hearing is not made within the time prescribed, the tax, interest and penalties, if
any, determined by the collector shall become final and conclusive and
immediately due and payable. If such application is made, the collector shall give
not less than five days written notice in the manner prescribed herein to the
service supplier to show cause at a time and place fixed in the notice why the
amount specified therein should not be fixed for such tax, interest and penalties.
At such hearing, the service supplier may appear and offer evidence why such
specified tax, interest and penalties should not be so fixed.

3.12.320.	Failure to collect and report tax—Determination of tax after
hearing—Notice—When due.

—After a hearing on the amount of tax assessed, the collector shall determine the
proper tax to be remitted, and shaH-thereafter give written notice to the service
supplier in the manner prescribed above of such determination and the amount of
such tax, interest and penalties. The amount determined to be due shall be payable
after fifteen days unless an appeal is taken as provided in this chapter.

3.12.330.	Failure to collect and report tax—Collection of taxes from service
user by city—Conditions—Notice.

—Whenever the collector determines that a service user has deliberately withheld
the amount of any tax imposed on-hi-m by the provisions of this chapter from the
amounts remitted to a service supplier required to collect the tax, or that a service
user has failed to pay the amounkef-the tax to such service supplier for a period-e-f
four or more billing periods, or whenever the collector deems it in the best interest
of the city, he may relieve such-service supplier of the obligation to collect taxes
due under this chapter from certain named service users for specified billing
periods. The collector shall -not-i-fy the service user that he has assumed
responsibility to collect the taxes due for the stated periods and demand payment
af-such taxes, plus-any-penalty imposed and such interest as may be due pursuant
to the provisions of Sections 3.12.200 through 3.12.290. The notice shall be
ser-ved-o-n the service user by-handing it to him personally or by deposit of the
notice in the United States mail, postage prepaid thereon, addressed to the service
user at the address to which billing was made by the service supplier required to
collect the tax; or, should the service user have changed his address, to his last
known address.

3.12.180.	Deficiency Determination and Assessment: Tax Application
Errors.

(a)	The Tax Administrator may make a deficiency determination if he
or she determines that any person required to pay or collect taxes pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter has failed to pay, collect, and/or remit the proper
amount of tax by improperly applying or failing to apply the tax to one or more
taxable services or charges. Nothing herein shall require that the Tax
Administrator institute proceedings under this Section 3.12.180 if. in the opinion
of the Tax Administrator, the cost of collection or enforcement likely outweighs
the tax benefit.

(b)	The Tax Administrator shall mail a notice of such deficiency
determination to the person required to pay or remit the tax, which notice shall
refer briefly to the amount of the taxes owed, plus interest at the rate of up to
seventy-five one-hundredths percent (0.75%) per month, or any fraction thereof,
on the amount of the tax from the date on which the tax should have been
received by the City. Within fourteen (14) calendar days after the date of service
of such notice, the person may send a request in writing to the Tax Administrator
asking for a hearing on the matter.

(c)	If the person fails to request a hearing within the prescribed time
period, the amount of the deficiency determination shall become a final
assessment, and shall immediately be due and owing to the City. If the person
requests a hearing, the Tax Administrator shall cause the matter to be set for
hearing, which shall be scheduled within thirty (30) days after receipt of the
written request for hearing. Notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be
mailed by the Tax Administrator to such person at least ten (10) calendar days
prior to the hearing, and, if the Tax Administrator desires said person to produce
specific records at such hearing, such notice may designate the records requested
to be produced.

(d)	At the time fixed for the hearing, the Tax Administrator shall hear
all relevant testimony and evidence, including that of any other interested parties.
At the discretion of the Tax Administrator, the hearing may be continued from
time to time for the purpose of allowing the presentation of additional evidence.
Within a reasonable time following the conclusion of the hearing, the Tax
Administrator shall issue a final assessment (or non-assessment), thereafter, by
confirming, modifying or rejecting the original deficiency determination, and
shall mail a copy of such final assessment to the person owing the tax. The
decision of the Tax Administrator may be appealed pursuant to Section 3.12.210
(Appeals). Filing an application with the Tax Administrator and appeal to the City
Manager, or designee, pursuant to Section 3.12.210 (Appeals) is a prerequisite to
a suit thereon.

(e)	Payment of the final assessment shall become delinquent if not
received by the Tax Administrator on or before the thirtieth (30th) day following
the date of receipt of the notice of final assessment. The penalty for delinquency
shall be up to fifteen percent (15%) on the total amount of the assessment, along
with interest at the rate of up to seventy-five one-hundredths percent (0.75%) per
month, or any fraction thereof, on the amount of the tax, exclusive of penalties,
from the date of delinquency, until paid. The applicable statute of limitations
regarding a claim by the City seeking payment of a tax assessed under this chapter
shall commence from the date of delinquency as provided in this subsection (e).

(f)	All notices under this chapter may be sent by regular mail, postage
prepaid, and shall be deemed received on the third calendar day following the date
of mailing, as established by a proof of mailing.

3.12.190.	Administrative Remedy; Non-paving Service Users.

(a)	Whenever the Tax Administrator determines that a service user has
deliberately withheld the amount of the tax owed by the service user from the
amounts remitted to a person required to collect the tax, or whenever the Tax
Administrator deems it in the best interest of the City, he or she may relieve such
person of the obligation to collect the taxes due under this Section 3.12.190 from
certain named service users for specific billing periods. Whenever the service user

has failed to pay the amount of tax owed for a period of two (2) or more billing
periods, the service supplier shall be relieved of the obligation to collect taxes
due. The service supplier shall provide the City with the names and addresses of
such service users and the amounts of taxes owed under the provisions of this
Section 3.12.190. Nothing herein shall require that the Tax Administrator institute
proceedings under this Section 3.12.190 if, in the opinion of the Tax
Administrator, the cost of collection or enforcement likely outweighs the tax
benefit.

(b)	In addition to the tax owed, the service user shall pay a
delinquency penalty at the rate of up to fifteen (15%) percent of the total tax that
is owed, and shall pay interest at the rate of up to three-quarters of one (3/4%)
percent per month, or any fraction thereof, on the amount of the tax, exclusive of
penalties, from the due date, until paid.

(c)	The Tax Administrator shall notify the nonpaving service user that
the Tax Administrator has assumed the responsibility to collect the taxes due for
the stated periods and demand payment of such taxes, including penalties and
interest. The notice shall be served on the service user by personal delivery or by
deposit of the notice in the United States mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the
service user at the address to which billing was made by the person required to
collect the tax; or, should the service user have a change of address, to his or her
last known address.

fdf If the service user fails to remit the tax to the Tax Administrator
within thirty (30) days from the date of the service of the notice upon him or her,
the Tax Administrator may impose an additional penalty of fifteen (15%) percent
of the amount of the total tax that is owed.

3.12.200.	Actions to Collect,

Any tax required to be paid by a service user under the provisions of this
chapter shall be deemed a debt owed by the service user to the City. Any such tax
collected from a service user which has not been remitted to the Tax
Administrator shall be deemed a debt owed to the City by the person required to
collect and remit and shall no longer be a debt of the service user. Any person
owing money to the City under the provisions of this chapter shall be liable in an
action brought in the name of the City for the recovery of such amount, including
penalties and interest as provided for in this chapter, along with any collection
costs incurred by the City as a result of the person's noncompliance with this
chapter, including, but not limited to, reasonable attorney’s fees. In the event that
a service user or service supplier owing a tax under this chapter files bankruptcy,
then such debt to the City shall be deemed an unsecured priority excise tax
obligation under 11 U.S.C.A. Section 507(a)f8)(C). Service suppliers who seek to
collect charges for service in bankruptcy proceedings shall also include in any
such claim the amount of taxes due the City for those services, unless the Tax
Administrator determines that such duty is in conflict with any federal or state

law, rule, or regulation or that such action would be administratively impractical.
—Any-person aggrieved by any decision of the collector pursuant to this-ehapter
may appeal to the collector by filing a notice of appeal with the director within
fifteen-days of the serving or mailing of the decision.

3.12t35&- Appeals—Hearing—Notice.

—The director shall fix a time and place for hearing such appeal. The director
shali-g-fv-e notice thereof in writing to such person by serving it personally or by
depositing it in the United States mail, postage prepaid, addressed to such person
at his-lasn known place of address.

3.12-r36th-Appeals—Hearing—Determination.

—The director shall have authority to determine all questions raised on such
appeal-at-the time of the hearing. No determination so made by the director shall
conflict with any substantive provision of this chapter.

3.12.370.	Appeals—Hearing—Penalties suspended.

3.12.340210.	Appeals—Who may appeal.

No penalty provided for in this chapter shall be imposed after the filing of
an appeal or prior to the completion of the hearing on the appeal and the making
of a determination on the subject of the appeal by the director.

(a)	The provisions of this section apply to any decision (other than a
decision relating to a refund pursuant to Section 3.12.230 (Refunds)), deficiency
determination, assessment, or administrative ruling of the Tax Administrator. Any
person aggrieved by any decision (other than a decision relating to a refund
pursuant to Section 3.12.230), deficiency determination, assessment, or
administrative ruling of the Tax Administrator, shall be required to comply with
the appeals procedure of this section. Compliance with this section shall be a
prerequisite to a suit thereon. fSee Government Code Section 935(bYI. To the
extent allowed by law, nothing herein shall permit the filing of a claim or action
on behalf of a class or group of taxpayers.

(b)	If any person is aggrieved by any decision (other than a decision
relating to a refund pursuant to Section 3.12.230t, deficiency determination,
assessment, or administrative ruling of the Tax Administrator; he or she may
appeal to the City Manager by filing a notice of appeal with the City Clerk within
fourteen (14) days of the date of the decision, deficiency determination,
assessment, or administrative ruling of the Tax Administrator which aggrieved the
service user or service supplier.

(c)	The matter shall be scheduled for hearing before an independent
hearing officer selected by the City Manager, or designee, no more than thirty
(30) days from the receipt of the appeal. The appellant shall be served with notice
of the time and place of the hearing, as well as any relevant materials, at least five

(5)	calendar days prior to the hearing. The hearing may be continued from time to

time upon mutual consent. At the time of the hearing, the appealing party, the Tax
Administrator, the City Manager, and any other interested person may present
such relevant evidence as he or she may have relating to the determination from
which the appeal is taken.

(d)	Based upon the submission of such evidence and the review of the
City’s files, the independent hearing officer shall issue a written notice and order
upholding, modifying or reversing the determination from which the appeal is
taken. The notice shall be given within fourteen (14) days after the conclusion of
the hearing and shall state the reasons for the decision. The notice shall specify
that the decision is final and that any petition for judicial review shall be filed
within ninety 190) days from the date of the decision in accordance with Code of
Civil Procedure Section 1094.6.

(e)	All notices under this section may be sent by regular mail, postage
prepaid, and shall be deemed received on the third calendar day following the date
of mailing, as established by a proof of mailing.

3.12.380220.	Records—Retention period—Access.

—It shall be the duty of every service supplier required to collect and remit to the
city any tax imposed by this chapter to keep and preserve, for a period of three
years, all records as may be necessary to determine the amount of such tax as such
service supplier may have been required to collect and remit to the city, which
records the collector shall have the right to inspect at all reasonable times.

(a)	It shall be the duty of every person required to collect and/or remit
to the City any tax imposed by this chapter to keep and preserve, for a period of at
least three (3) years, all records as may be necessary to determine the amount of
such tax that such person may have been liable for the collection of and
remittance to the Tax Administrator, which records the Tax Administrator shall
have the right to inspect at a reasonable time.

(b)	The Tax Administrator may issue an administrative subpoena to
compel a person to deliver, to the Tax Administrator, copies of all records deemed
necessary by the Tax Administrator to establish compliance with this chapter,
including the delivery of records in a common electronic format on readily
available media if such records are kept electronically by the person in the usual
and ordinary course of business. As an alternative to delivering the subpoenaed
records to the Tax Administrator on or before the due date provided in the
administrative subpoena, such person may provide access to such records outside
the City on or before the due date, provided that such person shall reimburse the
City for all reasonable travel expenses incurred by the City to inspect those
records, including travel, lodging, meals, and other similar expenses, but
excluding the normal salary or hourly wages of those persons designated by the
City to conduct the inspection.

(c)	The Tax Administrator is authorized to execute a nondisclosure

agreement approved by the City Attorney to protect the confidentiality of
customer information pursuant to California Revenue and Tax Code Sections
7284.6 and 7284.7. The Tax Administrator may request from a person providing
transportation or distribution services of gas or electricity to service users within
the City, a list of the names, billing and service addresses, quantities of gas or
electricity delivered, and other pertinent information, of its transportation
customers within the City pursuant to Section 6354(e) of the California Public
Utilities Code.

(d)	If a service supplier uses a billing agent or billing aggregator to
bill collect, and/or remit the tax, the service supplier shall: (1) provide to the Tax
Administrator the name, address and telephone number of each billing agent and
billing aggregator currently authorized by the service supplier to bill, collect,
and/or remit the tax to the City; and. (2) upon request of the Tax Administrator,
deliver, or effect the delivery of. any information or records in the possession of
such billing agent or billing aggregator that, in the opinion of the Tax
Administrator, is necessary to verify the proper application, calculation, collection
and/or remittance of such tax to the City .

(el If any person subject to record-keeping under this chapter
unreasonably denies the Tax Administrator, or the Tax Administrator’s designated
representative, access to such records, or fails to produce the information
requested in an administrative subpoena within the time specified, the Tax
Administrator may impose a penalty of five hundred ($500.00) dollars on such
person for each day following: i) the initial date that the person refuses to provide
such access; or. ii) the due date for production of records as set forth in the
administrative subpoena. This penalty shall be in addition to any other penalty
imposed under this chapter.

^12.390. Refunds/—Claim—Filing period.

—Whenever the amount of any tax, interest or penalty has been overpaid or paid
more than once, or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received by the
city under this chapter, it may be refunded as provided in this section and Sections
3.12.400 through 3.12.420 provided a claim in writing therefor, stating under
penalty of perjury the specific grounds upon which the claim is founded, is filed
with the collector within three-year-s-ef the date of payment. The claim shall be on
forms furnished by the collector.

3212.400.	Refunds—Service supplier refund.

—A service supplier may-elaim a refund- or take as credit against taxes collected
and remitted an amount overpaid, paid more than once, or erroneously or illegally
collected or received, when—i-t—i-s—established in a manner prescribed by the
collector that the person from whom the tax has been collected was not a sendee
user.

3.12.410.	Refunds—Service user refund.

—Any service user may obtain a refund of taxes overpaid, or paid more than
once, or erroneously or illegally collected or received by the city by filing a claim
in the manner provided in Section 3.12.390, but only when the service user having
paid the tax to the service supplier establishes to the satisfaction of the collector
that the service user has been unable to obtain a refund from the service supplier
who collected the tax.

3.12.420.	Refunds—Claim—Proof required.

No refund shall be paid under the provisions of Sections 3.12.390 through
3.12.110 unless the claimant establishes his or her right thereto by written records
showing entitlement thereto.

3.12.300230. Refunds/Credits—Claim—Filing period.

Whenever the amount of any tax has been overpaid or paid more than
once or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received by the Tax
Administrator under this chapter, it may be refunded or credited as provided in
this Section:

la) The Tax Administrator may refund any tax that has been overpaid
or paid more than once or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received
by the Tax Administrator under this chapter, provided that no refund shall be paid
under the provisions of this section unless the claimant or his or her guardian,
conservator, executor, or administrator has submitted a written claim to the Tax
Administrator within one (1) year of the overpayment or erroneous or illegal
collection of said tax. Such claim must clearly establish claimant's right to the
refund by written records showing entitlement thereto. To the extent allowed by
law, nothing herein shall permit the filing of a claim on behalf of a class or group
of taxpayers unless each member of the class has submitted a written claim under
penalty of perjury as provided by this Section 3.12.230.

(b) The submission of a written claim, which is acted upon by the City
Council, shall be a prerequisite to a suit thereon. (See Section 935 of the
California Government Code). The City shall act upon the refund claim within the
time period set forth in Government Code Section 912.4. If the City fails or
refuses to act on a refund claim within the time prescribed hv Government
Section 912.4. the claim shall be deemed to have been rejected by the City on the
last day of the period within which the City was required to act upon the claim as
provided in Government Code Section 912.4. The Tax Administrator shall give
notice of the action in a form that substantially complies with that set forth in
Government Code Section 913.

(c)	Notwithstanding the notice provisions of subsection (a) of this
Section 3.12.230. the Tax Administrator may, at his or her discretion, give written
permission to a service supplier, who has collected and remitted any amount of
tax in excess of the amount of tax imposed by this chapter, to claim credit for
such overpayment against the amount of tax which is due the City upon a
subsequent monthly return!s) to the Tax Administrator, provided that, prior to

taking such credit by the service supplier: (1) such credit is claimed in a return
dated no later than one year from the date of overpayment or erroneous collection
of said tax; (2) the Tax Administrator is satisfied that the underlying basis and
amount of such credit has been reasonably established; and, (3) in the case of an
overpayment by a service user to the service supplier that has been remitted to the
City, the Tax Administrator has received proof, to his or her satisfaction, that the
overpayment has been refunded by the service supplier to the service user in an
amount equal to the requested credit.

3.12.240.	No Ini unction/Writ of Mandate.

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall
issue in any suit, action, or proceeding in any court against this City or against
any officer of the City to prevent or enjoin the collection under this chapter of any
tax or any amount of tax required to be collected and/or remitted.

3.12.250.	Remedies Cumulative.

All remedies and penalties prescribed by this chapter or which are
available under any other provision of law or equity, including but not limited to
the California False Claims Act (Government Code Section 12650 et scq.) and the
California Unfair Practices Act (Business and Professions Code Section 17070 et
seq.), are cumulative. The use of one (1) or more remedies by the City shall not
bar the use of any other remedy for the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this
chapter.

3.12.260.	Notice of Changes to Ordinance.

If a tax under this chapter is added, repealed, increased, reduced, or the tax
base is changed, the Tax Administrator shall follow the notice requirements of
Public Utilities Code Section 799.

3.12.270.	Future Amendment to Cited Statute.

Unless specifically provided otherwise, any reference to a State or Federal
statute in this chapter shall mean such statute as it may be amended from time to
time. To the extent that the City’s authorization to collect or impose any tax
imposed under this chapter is expanded or limited as a result of an amendment or
new enactment of a State or Federal law, no amendment or modification of this
chapter shall be required to conform the tax to those changes, and the tax shall be
imposed and collected to the full extent of the authorization up to the full amount
of the tax imposed under this chapter.

3.12.280.	Annual Rate Review and Independent Audit of Tax Collection.

Exemption, Remittance and Expenditure.

The City shall annually verify that the taxes owed under this section have
been properly applied, exempted, collected, and remitted in accordance with this
section, and properly expended according to applicable municipal law. The annual
verification shall be performed by a qualified independent third party and the
review shall employ reasonable, cost-effective steps to assure compliance.

including the use of sampling audits. The verification shall not be required of tax
remitters where the cost of the verification may exceed the tax revenues to be
reviewed.

3.12.290.	No Increase in Tax Percentage or Change in Methodology
Without Voter Approval; Amendment or Repeal.

This chapter of the Sunnyvale Municipal Code may be repealed or
amended by the City Council without a vote of the People. However, as required
by Chapter XIIIC of the California Constitution, voter approval is required for
any amendment provision that would increase the rate of any tax levied pursuant
to this Ordinance, provided however, the following actions shall not constitute an
increase of the rate of a tax:

(a) The restoration of the rate of the tax to a rate that is no higher than
that set by this Ordinance, if the City Council has acted to reduce the rate of the
tax;

(b) An action that interprets or clarifies the methodology of the tax, or
any definition applicable to the tax, so long as such interpretation or clarification
(even if contrary to some prior interpretation or clarification) is not inconsistent
with the language of this Ordinance;

(cl The establishment a class of persons that is exempt or excepted
from the tax or the discontinuation of any such exemption or exception (other
than the discontinuation of an exemption or exception specifically set forth in this
Ordinance); and

(d)	The collection of the tax imposed by this ordinance, even if the
City had, for some period of time, failed to collect the tax.