From Ballotpedia
Text of measure

Ballot question

The following question appeared on the ballot:1^1

U To maintain quality education with local funding the State cannot take, including:

protecting core academics, reading, writing, math, and science, attracting and retaining
quality teachers, supporting science lab materials and activities, providing lower class
sizes, preparing students for college and the workforce, shall West Contra Costa
Unified School District extend the existing school funding measure for 8 years, at the
current 7.2 cents per square foot of building area, providing $9.8 million annually,
exempting seniors and requiring independent citizen oversight?^

Impartial analysis

The following impartial analysis of the measure was prepared by the office of the Contra Costa

County Counsel:

The governing board of the West Contra Costa Unified School District has adopted a
resolution proposing to extend its current parcel tax (a qualified special tax).

This ballot measure asks voters to decide whether an existing parcel tax should
continue to be imposed on parcels of taxable real property within the District for eight
years, beginning July 1, 2019. The proposed tax would expire June 30, 2027.

The tax would apply to each parcel of taxable real property in the District. If a parcel
has a building on it, the tax would be 7.2 cents per square foot of total building area on
the parcel. That means the annual tax on a parcel with a 1,500 square-foot building
would be $108. A parcel of taxable real property is any unit of real property in the
District that receives a separate tax bill for property taxes from the Contra Costa
County Treasurer-Tax Collector’s Office. A parcel otherwise exempt from property
taxes will also be exempt from the imposition of the parcel tax.

The ballot measure includes certain exemptions. Upon proper application to the
District, the District may exempt any parcel from the parcel tax that is (1) owned and
occupied as a principal residence by a person 65 years of age or older; (2) owned and
occupied as a principal residence by a person receiving Supplemental Security Income
for a disability; or (3) owned and occupied as a principal residence by a person
receiving Social Security Disability Insurance benefits, whose yearly income does not

exceed 250 percent of the 2012 federal poverty guidelines issued by the United States
Department of Health and Human Services.

The ballot measure states that the proceeds of the parcel tax will be used for
“protecting core academics, reading, writing, math, and science, attracting and
retaining quality teachers, supporting science lab materials and activities, providing
lower class sizes, [and] preparing students for college and the workforce.” Proceeds
from the parcel tax may be used only for the specific purposes set forth in the ballot
measure and according to constitutional and statutory provisions.

State law requires the District’s chief fiscal officer to file an annual report with the
District’s Board of Education that states the amounts of funds received and expended
in each year and the status of any projects required or authorized to be funded from the
parcel tax proceeds. The proceeds from the parcel tax will be deposited into a District
account that will be kept separate from other District accounts. Parcel tax funds will be
the subject of an annual independent financial audit, which shall be made public.

Two-thirds of those voting on the ballot measure must approve the measure for it to
pass.

A “Yes” vote is a vote in favor of authorizing the parcel tax for a eight-year period of
time.

A “No” vote is a vote against authorizing the parcel tax for a eight-year period of time.

121

—Contra Costa County Counsel1^

Support

Supporters

The following individuals signed the official argument in favor of the measure:^1

•	Tony Thurmond, Assemblymember, District 15

•	Rita Xavier, President, League of Women Voters - West Contra Costa County

•	Genoveva Garcia Calloway, Councilmember - City of San Pablo

•	Kwame Baah-Arhin, Student Trustee, Contra Costa Community College District

•	Tiffany Harris, President, Bayside Council of PTAs

Arguments in favor

Official argument

The following official argument was submitted in favor of the measure:^

Maintain quality local education and give students the tools they need to succeed by
voting YES on Measure T. This measure renews our local educational funding measure
providing the tools our students need to succeed in college and today’s workforce.
Measure T ensures a basic level of funding for our schools that the state can’t take
away, allowing the school district to continue giving students a quality education from
kindergarten to high school graduation. We cannot rely on the state government to
fund local schools. Voting YES on Measure T will renew the existing funding needed
to maintain core academic programs that prepare our students for success. Vote YES
on Measure T to:

•	Fund core academic programs of reading, writing, math and science;

•	Maintain manageable class sizes in the early grades to provide students with the
individual attention they need;

•	Support after-school programs that keep kids away from gangs and drugs;

•	Keep programs that prepare students for college and train them for the
workforce;

•	Provide classroom computers, technology, and science lab materials; and

•	Attract and retain quality teachers.

Measure T guarantees local educational funding for schools and students for the next
10 years. All funding will stay here in our community and can’t be taken by the state
for any reason. An independent citizens oversight committee will review all
expenditures ensuring they are spent correctly. No funds raised from Measure T will be
used for administrator salaries. Seniors and disabled are exempt from paying this tax.
Measure T does not increase your taxes - it continues the current local educational
funding to maintain programs in local schools. Without Measure T, the district will be
forced to make significant cuts to critical programs that our children need. Vote YES
on Measure T - protect our schools and help local students.121

Opposition

Opponents

The following individuals signed the official argument against the measure:121
• Contra Costa Taxpayers Association, Jack Weir, President
Arguments against
Official argument

The following official argument was submitted in opposition to the measure:121

u The West Contra Costa Unified School District wants to tap your wallet - again.
Property tax bills show multiple bonds from 1998 to 2012, and property owners will
continue to pay these obligations for many years. In addition, a large share of our basic
1% county property taxes goes to WCCUSD.

Voters also approved a parcel tax in 2004, slated to expire in 5 years, which was
extended twice by voters to 2019. WCCUSD wants, again, to renew the parcel tax
while years still remain on the current tax. Measure T would extend expiration another
8 years to 2027.

But, has all this taxpayer money been well spent?

Currently, the School District is under investigation by two federal agencies, and its
$1.6 billion bond program is being audited for mismanagement, fraud and waste. This
independent forensic audit was triggered by allegations of abuse disclosed to the public
by a District employee “whistleblower.” (Incidentally, a recent report by the Contra
Costa Grand Jury stated that the District has been paying over three times more for
construction costs than the state average.) The result of the initial phase of the forensic
audit was appalling, showing that the allegations are likely plausible. The full report is
due August 31.

Fortunately, some positive leadership changes have occurred. However, the
whistleblower, who tried for years without success to bring problems to management’s
attention before going public, just received an unsatisfactory performance evaluation, a
clear violation of state law protecting whistleblowers from retaliation.

Voters should wait for these investigations to reveal their findings, and demand that the
District correct its shortcomings. It’s much too soon to entrust the District with more of
our money.

Vote NO on Measure T.

121

59