Ballot question

The following question appeared on the ballot:[i]

Los Angeles County Traffic Improvement Plan. To improve freeway traffic

66

flow/safety; repair potholes/sidewalks; repave local streets; earthquake
retrofit bridges; synchronize signals; keep senior/disabled/student fares
affordable; expand rail/subway/bus systems; improve job/school/airport
connections; and create jobs; shall voters authorize a Los Angeles County
Traffic Improvement Plan through a 14 0 sales tax and continue the
existing >2 0 traffic relief tax until voters decide to end it, with independent
audits/oversight and funds controlled locally?[2]

Impartial analysis

The following impartial analysis of the measure was prepared by the office of the Los

Angeles County Counsel:

Approval of Measure M (“Measure”) would adopt an ordinance known as
the Los Angeles County Traffic Improvement Plan (“Ordinance”) proposed
by the Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
(“Metro”), which placed this Measure on the ballot by resolution dated
June 23, 2016. The Ordinance would impose a retail transactions and use
tax (“Sales Tax”) at the rate of one-half of one percent (.5%) within Los
Angeles County (“County”), beginning on the first day of the first calendar
quarter commencing not less than 180 days after adoption of the
ordinance. The Sales Tax will increase to one percent (1%) on July 1,
2039, when the Measure R tax of one-half of one percent (.5%) tax
imposed by Metro by Ordinance number 08-01 expires. The Sales Tax is
in addition to any other taxes authorized by law. The Sales Tax has no
expiration date.

Sales Tax revenue shall be used only for purposes described in the
Ordinance and the attached Expenditure Plan (“Expenditure Plan”) to
meet the goals of improving freeway traffic flow; accelerating rail
construction and building rail lines; enhancing local regional and express
bus service, bike and pedestrian connections; improving transportation
system connectivity, streets and intersections; addressing transit and
highway safety; providing more accessibility, convenience, and
affordability of transportation for seniors, students and the disabled; and
incorporating modern technology in the transportation system.

The Sales Tax would be imposed, administered, and collected in the
same manner as existing sales taxes, and would be imposed on all
retailers in incorporated cities and unincorporated areas of the County on
gross receipts of the retailer, as well as an excise tax on the storage, use
or other consumption of tangible personal property purchased from a
retailer. The Ordinance designates exemptions to the Sales Tax for
certain transactions, including but not limited to, those occurring outside of
the County.

55

Metro shall establish and administer a Sales Tax revenue fund (“Fund”)
and subfunds as required by the Ordinance. All sums in the Fund or
subfunds shall be expended by Metro for the projects and programs
described in the Ordinance and Expenditure Plan. Metro may also expend
additional funds from other sources on the projects and programs. The
Ordinance requires the establishment of an Independent Taxpayer
Oversight Committee (“Committee”) consisting of seven members with
specified qualifications. The Committee would, among other oversight
duties, approve the scope of work and direct the auditors for the annual
audit, prepare an annual report on the audit findings and determine
whether Metro is in compliance with the Ordinance. All audit reports,
findings and recommendations will be public.

Metro may make certain amendments to the Ordinance, including the
Expenditure Plan, by two thirds (2/3) vote of the Metro Board in
accordance with the Ordinance.

This Measure requires a two-thirds (2/3) vote for passage.[2]

—Los Angeles County Counsels

Support

Supporters

The following individuals signed the official argument in favor of the measure:[3]

•	John R. Fasana, Duarte Councilmember/LA County Metropolitan
Transportation Authority Chair

•	Nancy McPherson, AARP California State Director

•	Thomas S. Sayles, Chair of the Board, Los Angeles Area Chamber of
Commerce

•	Amy Howorth, Manhattan Beach Councilmember

• Eric Garcetti, Los Angeles Mayor/LA County Metropolitan Transportation
Authority Vice Chair

Arguments in favor

Official argument

The following official argument was submitted in favor of the measure:[3]

YES ON MEASURE M creates a comprehensive Los Angeles County
Traffic Improvement Plan to ease congestion and build a 21st Century
transportation network.

In 2015, the average driver on LA freeways spent 81 hours stuck in traffic.
We can stop wasting time away from our families and jobs by making
smart investments in both transit and roads.

YES ON MEASURE M will modernize Los Angeles County’s aging
transportation system.

YES ON MEASURE M will build more light rail, Rapid Bus, Metrolink, and
better freeways and highways all across Los Angeles County. And, with
Measure M, we can finally do earthquake retrofitting on our overpasses
and bridges.

YES ON MEASURE M will keep seniors, disabled, and student fares
affordable. In 15 years, the number of Los Angeles County residents 65 or
older will expand to over 2 million. Yes on Measure M invests in van
services and public transit so more seniors, veterans, and people with
disabilities can live independently.

The non-profit Los Angeles County Economic Development Corporation
estimates that Measure M will create 465,000 new jobs throughout Los
Angeles County.

YES ON MEASURE M gives Los Angeles County a guaranteed source of
funding that can be used to get hundreds of millions of dollars in state and
federal matching dollars. Without Measure M, these matching dollars will
go to other places.

YES ON MEASURE M will help each of LA County’s 88 cities fix their
streets and repair their potholes and sidewalks.

YES ON MEASURE M includes strict accountability, an Oversight
Committee, and an Annual Financial and Performance Audit, which will be
available online.

All Measure M money is for local use only and cannot be taken by the
state government in Sacramento.

Join business, labor, environmentalists, transportation experts, and
leaders from every corner of Los Angeles County and vote YES ON
MEASURE M.[2]

Opposition

Opponents

The following individuals signed the official argument against the measure:[3]

•	Norwalk Mayor Michael Mendez, Chair 1-5 Joint Powers Authority

•	Jon Reno, Local Chamber of Commerce Leader

•	Damien Goodmon, Executive Director, Crenshaw Subway Coalition

•	Barbara Lott-Holland, Co-Chair Bus Riders Union

•	Professor Sally Morales Havice, former President, League of United Latin
American Citizens #2009

Arguments against

Official argument

The following official argument was submitted in opposition to the measure:[3]

We all want less traffic and smog -- and better, clean and safe public
transit! But Measure M doesn’t accomplish these things - vote NO!

Measure M is a flawed, unfair plan written in part by special interests
representing the builders and contractors who’ll make billions. Consider
this:

Blue collar communities pay the tax but won’t get traffic congestion relief
for decades. Yet mega-projects in wealthy communities are the first in line
to receive even more funding—and that’s unfair. That’s why a coalition of
more than 40 communities in LA County voted to officially oppose
Measure M.

The streets, roads and freeways we use are falling apart, but Measure M
doesn’t make fixing them a priority. Improvements to the 1-5, 605, 710 and
the 405 won’t be completed for decades!

Measure M is a FOREVER TAX on working families with no end date,
oversight or accountability. Loopholes make Measure M a blank check
because there are no guarantees the projects you’ve been promised will
ever be started or completed.

Measure M taxes people who can’t afford it, spreads social and racial
injustice and makes discrimination worse. By voting NO on M our
communities can develop a better, comprehensive plan that will truly
reduce traffic and expand the quality rail, subway and bus system we all
expect and deserve.

No on M forces the establishment to listen to us and to provide fair,
accountable funding for transit projects that benefit us all—not just a
fortunate few.

If they are going to raise taxes “forever,” they had better get it right
because “forever” is a long, long time.

Measure M doesn’t get it right. We can do better—vote NO on M. [2]