SAMPLE BALLOT & VOTER INFORMATION

Presidential General
Election

Tuesday, November 8,2016

Polls open 7am » close 8pm

SUPPLEMENT

http://www2.sdcounty.ca.gov/rov/Eng/Voters.asp

CITY OF SAN DIEGO

(This Measure will appear on the ballot in the following form.)

MEASURE C

DOWNTOWN STADIUM INITIATIVE. Should the measure be adopted to: increase
San Diego’s hotel occupancy tax by 6% to build a City-owned downtown professional
football stadium and convention center project, and fund tourism marketing; effect the
project financing, design, construction, use, management, and maintenance, including
a $650,000,000 contribution and 30-year commitment by a professional football entity;
end Tourism Marketing District assessments; adopt a development ordinance, and
related land use, sign, and zoning laws?

This measure’s approval threshold could be affected by legal issues currently before the
California Supreme Court.

OFFICIAL TITLE AND SUMMARY
BALLOT TITLE

Tax and Downtown Stadium/Convention Center Initiative: Transient Occupancy Tax
Increase for Combined Downtown Stadium and Convention Center Project and Tourism
Marketing, and Related Land Use and Development Regulations

BALLOT SUMMARY

This measure would obligate the City of San Diego to acquire the land for, and build, a
downtown convention center and professional football stadium. The project would be financed
through a 6% rate increase in the transient occupancy tax, and a $650,000,000 contribution by a
professional football entity. The City would be authorized to issue bonds to finance the project,
supported by the new tax revenue. The measure contemplates the City’s use of a joint powers
authority or a City corporation to own, finance, develop, and construct the project.

If approved, the measure would change the City’s Downtown Community Plan and land
development regulations to exempt the project from existing regulations, provide new regulations,
and accommodate a wide range of commercial, sports and entertainment uses. The measure
would allow outward-facing advertising signs and billboards, large electronic message boards,
and other signs, lighting and noise levels not currently permitted by the City’s regulations.

The football stadium would have 65,000 seats, expandable to 75,000. The convention
center would have 385,000 square feet of meeting space.

The measure would end Tourism Marketing District assessments, and allow new tax
revenues to be used for tourism marketing and promotion.

N SD SDO-002

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

The tax increase provisions can be summarized as follows: If adopted, this measure
would increase the City’s transient occupancy tax rate by 6% for hotels, recreational vehicle parks
and campgrounds, for a total tax rate of 16.5%, effective January 1, 2017. The new revenue
would be paid into special funds in the City’s treasury: 5/6 of the new revenue would be paid into
a new convention center and stadium fund; 1/6 of the new revenue would be paid into the existing
San Diego Tourism and Marketing Fund. The tax rate would be reduced by 3% if the proposed
stadium is not complete within two years after home games for professional football end at
Qualcomm Stadium, or if all City-issued bonds and other financings are repaid, or after 50 years,
or if the professional football entity has not, by January 1, 2027, paid its contribution and entered
into an agreement not to relocate and a lease. In that event, two-thirds of the revenue, based on
the reduced 3% rate, would be dedicated to tourism and convention center marketing.

This measure was placed on the ballot by the City Council after voter signatures
qualified the initiative measure for the ballot.

This citizens’ initiative measure would amend the City’s Downtown Community Plan
and the San Diego Municipal Code to provide for the development, financing, management, and
use of a downtown convention center and professional football stadium project (the Project) on a
10-block area east of Petco Park (the Site), and require the City to:

•	Create a Planned District on the Site and set City policies, criteria, permitting
procedures, and regulations that apply only to the Project, including:

—	Working proactively for removal of bus yards from the Site;

—	Developing the Project as part of a commercial, sports, and entertainment
district with a wide range of permitted uses, including live entertainment,
alcohol sales, broadcasting, and special events for day and night-time use;

—	Allowing uninterrupted development across the Site, and routing vehicle,
bicycle, and pedestrian traffic around the Site;

—	Favoring off-site and shared parking and mass transit use;

—	Exempting the Project from existing development procedures and regulations
including, for example, parking, noise, and lighting;

—	Establishing new design regulations including, for example, for setbacks,
height, light, noise standards, green building, parking, and including sign
regulations to allow large outward-facing, lighted advertising and electronic
message signs; and

—	Requiring the City to issue a development permit, or phased permits, without
a public hearing, based solely on whether the application complies with the
new regulations.

•	Increase the City’s Transient Occupancy Tax (TOT). This tax is paid by guests at
hotels, recreational vehicle parks and campgrounds. This tax is itemized on
guests’ bills, collected from guests by the operator and turned over to the City.
The current tax is 10.5%. This measure would increase TOT to 16.5%, and end
Tourism Marketing District assessments. New tax revenue would be deposited in
special trust funds for:

—	Financing costs, including debt service on bonds issued by the City;

—	Pre-construction costs incurred by the City, including land acquisition,
architecture and engineering, project management, and legal costs;

N SD SDO-003

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS (CONTINUED)

—	All costs of developing and constructing a convention center building
designed and sized to house a professional football stadium, including land
acquisition and infrastructure;

—	Development and construction of the stadium as a joint facility ($350 million);

—	Tourism and convention center marketing;

—	Operating and maintenance reserves; and

—	Project operations, maintenance, capital improvements and repairs.

The measure also would:

• Condition use of construction funds on:

—	Contributions by a professional football entity for stadium construction and
infrastructure costs up to $650,000,000. This funding can be paid in cash,
using revenue from seat license sales, sponsorships or other future
revenues, from construction loan proceeds, or as pre-development expenses
incurred by the entity.

—	A 30-year commitment by a professional football entity to not relocate and to
use the stadium on set terms.

•	Authorize the City to create a non-profit corporation or joint powers authority to
own and assist the City in financing, developing, constructing, and operating the
Project.

•	Under current law, exempt the Project from environmental review under the
California Environmental Quality Act.

PR-09L0-003

N SD SDO-004

FISCAL IMPACT STATEMENT

This measure increases the City’s transient occupancy tax (TOT) from 10.5% to 16.5%. The
measure eliminates the existing 2% assessment hotels charge customers to a fund a tourism
marketing district (TMD).

Based on current TOT revenue projections, a 6% increase would initially generate $120 million
annually. 5% of the 6% increase generates $100 million annually, and would fund construction
and operations/maintenance (O&M) of a convention center/stadium facility (Facility) in the East
Village. The remaining 1% generates $20 million annually for tourism marketing.

Depending on the combination of cash and TOT-supported revenue bonds used, the 5% TOT
increase could provide between $1.3 and $1.6 billion for land acquisition and Facility construction.
The Chargers must provide an additional $650 million for the stadium-only portion of the Facility,
and enter into a lease to play at the stadium for at least 30 years.

While not stated in the measure, the Chargers have estimated Facility costs at $1.8 billion:

•	$200	million - land acquisition (TOT funded)

•	$600	million - construction of convention center (TOT funded)

•	$350 million - construction of integrated joint use portion (TOT funded)

•	$650 million - construction of stadium (privately funded)

Project expenses may be understated. Land costs could increase with needs such	as	retaining

1,300 parking spaces near Petco Park as required by the City’s contract with the	Padres.	Costs

for capital infrastructure (e.g. road improvements); MTS bus yard relocation; environmental
remediation; and trolley enhancements are not identified. In January 2018, funding commitments
to the Facility would adjust annually by a construction cost index. Bond financing costs may also
be higher than anticipated given the possibility of rising interest rates.

Following construction, remaining TOT must fund $29 million annually in O&M and capital
renewal, and a $25 million reserve. Up to 1% of TOT revenue would augment the 1% already
dedicated to tourism marketing. TOT funds remaining after funding all Facility and tourism
marketing costs would go to the City’s General Fund. Actual project costs, financing costs, and
TOT revenue growth will significantly impact when, how much and whether any revenue would
flow to the City’s General Fund. If TOT revenues cannot cover stipulated requirements in a given
year, General Fund support may be necessary, reducing funding available for other public
purposes.

San Diego’s current effective TOT rate (the combined TOT and TMD) is 12.5% - below the
average of other comparable cities. A 16.5% TOT rate would put San Diego among cities with the
highest TOT rates, potentially impacting hotel occupancy.

The 16.5% TOT rate would be reduced to 13.5% upon any of the following:

•	The earlier of 50 years or full repayment of Facility bonds;

•	The Chargers stop playing home games in Qualcomm Stadium for two consecutive
years prior to Facility construction; or

•	Specified project requirements cannot be satisfied within 10 years.

Once the TOT increase is reduced from 16.5% to 13.5%, 2/3rds of the remaining 3% TOT
increase would be allocated to tourism marketing, and 1/3rd to provide ongoing support for the
Facility.

N SD SDO-005

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE C

It will be more than a football stadium.

It will be a multi-use facility that will serve as an expanded convention center, a stadium for the
Chargers and a world-class events center.

It will be a home for international soccer, collegiate basketball championships, extreme sports
competitions, concerts and political conventions.

The ground level will be filled with coffee shops, retail spaces, a museum and an incubator for
start-up businesses.

And it will also be a spectacular site for America’s national holiday: The Super Bowl.

No new or increased taxes will be imposed on San Diego residents.

The Chargers and the NFL will be contributing $650 million in private investment.

The rest will be paid through an increase in the hotel tax paid by visitors to San Diego.

Residents of the City of San Diego who don’t stay in a hotel room in the City will not pay for the
development or operation of this facility.

The City will oversee the design, construction and operation of the facility, not the
Chargers.

The measure plans for a new public governing structure or Joint Powers Authority to oversee the
design, construction, operation and maintenance of the new facility and manage the hotel taxes
and the bonds to complete the development.

Again, no general fund dollars are designated to finance or operate any part of the project.

Even more, the initiative would relieve existing obligations at Qualcomm Stadium that are
currently paid out of the general fund totaling $15 million per year.

The facility will create new local jobs.

The facility will create 17,000 jobs during its construction.

In addition, between the Chargers’ operations and other events at the facility 3,000 permanent
jobs will be created in San Diego.

JERRY SANDERS
President & CEO, San Diego Regional
Chamber of Commerce

CAROL KIM
Boardmember, Middle Class Taxpayers
Association

JUAN VARGAS
Member of Congress

NICHOLAS SEGURA
San Diego Building & Construction Trades
Council

JOHN THOMSON
Retired Deputy Fire Chief

N SD SDO-006

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE C

Vote No on a Downtown Stadium - Jobs and Streets First!

Dean Spanos’s Measure C is a Bad Deal for San Diego
Raises Taxes by More Than $1 Billion

It is a massive tax increase that should be spent on repairing streets, hiring 911 dispatchers and
fully funding after-school programs. Instead of paying for those services, we would be raising
taxes to help fund a rent-free stadium for Dean Spanos and his billion-dollar corporation. Measure
C would be one of the largest tax incresaes in city history and the largest bond offering.

Does Not Require Any New Parking or Traffic Improvements

Getting in and out of Downtown San Diego is already difficult. So is finding parking. Dean
Spanos’s stadium would make a bad situation worse. His tax measure exempts him from
providing parking spaces required under the law. So if Measure C passes Dean Spanos would
receive a special benefit. It means San Diego taxpayers would be forced to pay for parking and
infrastructure to reduce traffic.

Does Not Protect San Diego Taxpayers

An independent analysis commissioned by the City found the public contribution could be $2.3
billion over 30 years. Four independent analyses all reached the same conclusion - the proposed
hotel tax increase might not cover costs. The City’s Independent Budget Analyst said low hotel
tax revenues could prompt the City to cover stadium costs with money normally used for public
safety and other core services.

Measure C Threatens San Diego’s Tourism Economy and Jobs

Comic-Con and other large conventions are opposed to the measure. When we lose conventions,
tourism declines. When tourism declines, we lose jobs, our economy suffers and tax revenues the
city relies on for street repairs and other services fall.

The City has more important priorities. Vote no on a bad deal!

HANEY HONG
San Diego County
Taxpayers Association
President and CEO

JULIE MEIER WRIGHT
Former California Secretary
of Trade & Commerce and
Retired CEO of San Diego
Regional Economic
Development Corporation

VICE ADMIRAL PETER HERMAN
US Navy (RET.)

DAVID ALVAREZ	CHRIS CATE

Councilmember	Councilmember

N SD SDO-007

BALLOT MEASURE FULL TEXT

NOTICE OF INTENT TO CIRCULATE PETITION

Notice is hereby given of the intention of the person whose name appears hereon to circulate a petition
within the City of San Diego for the purpose of adopting the legislative policy of the City to provide for the
financing, design, development, construction, operation, maintenance, and management of an integrated
convention center expansion and stadium for convention, civic, professional football, and other sports and
entertainment events within Downtown San Diego.

Be it ordained by the People of the City of San Diego:

Section 1. Title.

This initiative measure ("Initiative") shall be known and may be cited as the "San Diego Integrated Convention
Center Expansion/Stadium and Tourism Initiative."

Section 2. Findings and Declarations.

The People of the City of San Diego find and declare the following:

1.	The People of the City of San Diego ("City") desire to encourage the development of a convention
center expansion, tourism, and sports and entertainment district within Downtown San Diego
furthering downtown's unique role as the regional center for the City and San Diego County;

2.	The People of the City desire to encourage the development of an integrated convention center
expansion and stadium for convention, civic, professional football, and other sports and
entertainment events within Downtown San Diego at a location in the southeastern portion of
the East Village neighborhood bounded by K Street on the north, 16th Street on the east, Imperial
Avenue on the south and 12th Avenue on the west (the "Property") as reflected on the site map
attached as Exhibit A hereto;

3.	The People of the City desire to create a new plan for the Property that would provide a feasible
and fiscally and environmentally responsible path for the development and operation of an
integrated convention center expansion and stadium to complement the existing convention
center, baseball stadium, and tourism facilities, which will further enhance downtown San
Diego's position as a premier convention, tourism, and sports center;

4.	The People of the City desire to exercise our reserved power of initiative under the California
Constitution and the City of San Diego Charter to establish for the City an integrated convention
center expansion and stadium and related uses at the Property ("Convention Center Expansion
and Stadium Project");

5.	The People of the City desire that the Property be able to be used for the development and
operation of the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Project, which can be used for
conventions, civic events, exhibitions, trade shows, conferences, meetings, professional
and collegiate football games, professional and collegiate soccer games, other professional
and amateur sporting events, banquets, pageants, patriotic celebrations, public and private
gatherings, entertainment, concerts, festivals, fairs, and other similar events; media and
broadcasting facilities; athletic facilities; retail, food and beverage facilities; signage; and other
permitted uses as provided for in this Initiative;

6.	The Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Project will provide economic development
opportunities including creating new construction and permanent jobs in the City, and generating
new conventions, increased tourism, and increased economic activity, including generating new
business for local hotels;

7.	In order for the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Project to be undertaken in a
financially sound manner, the Initiative increases the existing Transient Occupancy Tax, which
is paid for by persons staying in hotels, motels, and other lodging establishments in the
City, and establishes a Downtown Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Fund to pay
for the development and construction of the Convention Center Expansion and to pay certain
incremental costs of the Stadium resulting from an integrated Convention Center Expansion

N SD SDO-008

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

and Stadium Project, and also establishes a San Diego Tourism and Marketing Fund to promote
tourism and conventions for the City;

8.	As provided in this Initiative, the Transient Occupancy Tax is increased by an additional six
percent (6%) and the new revenues are dedicated to special trust funds, the Convention Center
Expansion and Stadium Fund and the San Diego Tourism and Marketing Fund, as provided for by
this Initiative;

9.	In connection with the construction of the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium, the
Initiative requires that a private sector contribution of six hundred and fifty million dollars
($650,000,000) be provided and that a professional football team enter into a covenant and
agreement agreeing not to relocate for a period of thirty (30) years and agreeing to play
substantially all of its home games at the Stadium;

10.	The Initiative expressly prohibits the payment of any costs by the City to construct and operate
the Stadium except for certain costs resulting from the integrated nature of the Convention
Center Expansion and Stadium Project and as expressly provided for in this Initiative, and
prohibits the payment by the City of any cost overruns with respect to the Stadium construction;

11.	As provided in this Initiative, it is beneficial to amend the General Plan of the City and the Land
Development Code to provide for new land use designations, zoning and development standards
for the Property and establish a new Chapter to the Downtown Community Plan and a new
Planned District Ordinance to permit the development, construction, operation, and maintenance
of the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Project;

12.	The Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Project provided for in this Initiative is compatible
with surrounding commercial and residential uses, and the aesthetic and visual qualities of

the City; the design and development restrictions set forth in this Initiative together with the
environmental design features included in this Initiative are intended to address the potential
environmental issues associated with the construction, operation, maintenance, management,
and financing of the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Project;

13.	Implementation of this Initiative will protect the public health, safety and welfare, and the quality
of life for the People of the City by requiring that the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium
Project comply with a program of environmental design features as included in this Initiative to
avoid or reduce potential environmental issues; and

14.	By signing this Initiative petition, the People of the City directly express their intention to make
the ultimate decision on major changes in allowable land use and economic development within
the City.

Section 3. Statement of Purpose.

The People of the City of San Diego further find and declare that our purpose and intent in enacting the
Initiative is to:

Adopt the legislative policy of the City to provide for the financing, design, development, construction,
operation, maintenance, and management of the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Project, and
expand tourism and conventions in the City and, thereby, provide economic development opportunities
associated with the project, including creating jobs, increasing tourism, and other economic activity in the
City as being in the best interest of the City.

Section 4. Amendment of Downtown Community Plan.

This Section of the Initiative addresses the Goals and Policies applicable to the Convention Center Expansion
and Stadium Project within the Property.

The City's Downtown Community Plan is hereby amended to add a new chapter, Chapter 15 and its
Appendix 15A, that provides for the development of an integrated convention center expansion and stadium
for professional football and other sports and entertainment, together with related uses within the Property.

N SD SDO-009

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

Chapter 15 and its Appendix 15A will be applicable if an integrated convention center expansion and stadium
is to be developed within the Property. If an integrated convention center expansion and stadium is to be
developed within the Property, Chapter 15 and its Appendix 15A will be the only Chapter of the Downtown
Community Plan to apply. If an integrated convention center expansion and stadium is not to be developed
within the Property this Chapter 15 and its Appendix 15A shall have no force and effect.

A. New Chapter 15 and its Appendix 15A are hereby added to the Downtown Community Plan as follows
(new text in shown in underlined print for ease of reference):

Chapter 15 - Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Mixed-Use District

15.1	- Introduction and Overview

This Chapter 15 allows the development of an integrated convention center expansion and stadium
for professional football and other sports and entertainment, together with related uses, in a southeastern
portion of the East Village neighborhood. This area, known as the Convention Center Expansion and
Stadium Mixed-Use District, includes those properties bounded by K Street on the north, 16th Street on
the east, Imperial Avenue on the south, and 12th Avenue on the west as shown in Figure 15-1.

FIGURE 15-1

CONVENTION CENTER EXPANSION AND STADIUM MIXED-USE DISTRICT

15.2	- Vision and Planning

15.2.1	- Scope and Purpose

Chapter 15 is comprehensive in its scope to facilitate the development of a new integrated convention
center expansion and stadium for professional football and other sports and entertainment, together with related
uses, and that serves the following purposes:

PR-09L0-009

N SD SDO-OIO

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

•	Establishes a new Land Use Classification known as Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Mixed-
Use;

•	Establishes a land use vision, designation, and development policies for the Convention Center
Expansion and Stadium Mixed-Use District as a component of the Downtown Community Plan;

•	Provides for implementing actions to accomplish this land use vision;

•	Establishes the relationship of Chapter 15 to the other chapters of the Downtown Community Plan and
the Land Development Code, including but not limited to, Planned District Ordinances; and

•	Provides the framework for the detailed plans and implementing programs such as the Convention
Center Expansion and Stadium Planned District-

Chapter 15 covers a wide range of planning issues including but not limited to land use, urban design and
urban open space, transportation, historic resources, arts and culture, and health and safety for the Convention
Center Expansion and Stadium Mixed-Use District.

15.2.2	- Relationship to General Plan Elements, Planned District Ordinances, and Design Guidelines

Chapter 15 of the Downtown Community Plan allows the development of an integrated convention center
expansion and stadium for professional football and other sports and entertainment, together with related uses.
This Chapter will be applicable if an integrated convention center expansion and stadium is to be developed
within the boundaries described in this Chapter. If an integrated convention center expansion and stadium is
to be developed within the area covered by this Chapter, this Chapter 15 and its Appendix 15A shall be the
only chapter of the Downtown Community Plan to apply. If an integrated convention center expansion and
stadium is not to be developed within the area covered by this Chapter, this Chapter 15 and its Appendix 15A
shall have no force and effect.

This Chapter is consistent with other elements of the San Diego General Plan including the Strategic Framework,
Land Use and Community Planning Element Mobility Element, and other elements. This Chapter focuses new
development in mixed-use transit nodes and furthers Downtown as the regional center for the City and San
Diego County.

This Chapter provides the vision, policies, and development standards for a unique Planned District for this
area of Downtown to implement this Chapter. Similar to this Chapter of the Downtown Community Plan, if an
integrated convention center expansion and stadium is to be developed within the area covered by this Chapter,
then the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Planned District implementing this Chapter will be the only
Planned District to apply and will supersede any other zoning including without limitation any other Planned
Districts. The Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Planned District also contains design guidelines that
shall be the only design guidelines for development if an integrated convention center expansion and stadium
is to be developed in this area.

The Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Mixed-Use District is located outside of the Coastal Zone and
the San Diego Unified Port District.

“\5.3- Land Use

15.3.1	- Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Mixed-Use District Land Use

The Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Mixed-Use District is in the southeast portion of the East
Village neighborhood and includes those properties bounded by K Street on the north, 16th Street on the
east, Imperial Avenue on the south, and 12th Avenue on the west as shown on Figure 15-1. The General Plan
designates the properties within the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Mixed-Use District as Multiple
Use with a Downtown designation, which is intended to provide a range of single and multiple uses in a setting
of high intensity appropriate to Downtown's unique role as the regional center. The integration of commercial,
residential, civic, institutional, and open space is emphasized.

The Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Mixed-Use land use designation is intended to create a regional
convention center expansion, tourism, and sports and entertainment district patronized by local residents as
well as visitors that will further the goals and policies of enhancing Downtown as the regional center for the
City and County.

N SD SDO-OII

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

Mixed uses in the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Mixed-Use District will accommodate convention
center expansion, major sporting and event facilities, and visitor attractions. The classification contains a broad
array of other uses, including but not limited to, eating and drinking establishments; cultural uses; athletic
training and medical treatment facilities; retail stores including athletic team stores; motion picture, television,
and other media broadcasting studios and facilities; and accessory offices, as well as other accessory and
ancillary uses. The full range of uses will be specified in the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Planned
District-

Goals:	Structure	and Land Use

15.3.1-	G-1 Provide a land use and development framework to guide the area's transformation into a
regional convention center, tourism, and sports and entertainment district patronized by local residents as
well as visitors.

15.3.1-	G-2 Provide for a variety of uses that will foster a lively and active pedestrian district during
the day and night throughout the year, not only when activities and events occur in the convention center
expansion and stadium.

Policies:	Structure	and Land Use

15.3.1	-P-1 Permit and encourage the multi-block development of an integrated convention center
expansion and stadium for professional football and other sports and entertainment, together with related uses.

15.3.1	-P-2 Allow a diverse array of commercial uses, retail uses, and eating and drinking establishments
in a unified development that fosters pedestrian activity at the street level intended to be patronized by local
residents as well as visitors, and that generates economic development and expanded business opportunities.

15.3.2	Development Intensity and Buildout

Development Intensity and Buildout

This sub-chapter establishes the intensity of development within the District. Intensity is measured as floor area
ratio (FAR), calculated by dividing gross floor area by total lot area of the development site including any public
right-of- wav that may be vacated, i.e. the average FAR for an entire site. The implementing zoning regulations
in the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Planned District shall define how gross floor area and FAR
are calculated. If an integrated convention center expansion and stadium for professional football and other
sports and entertainment is developed in the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Mixed-Use District,
the maximum development intensity shall be a 4.0 FAR excluding certain aspects of the development as stated
below. The intensity and buildout of the stadium shall be limited by the seating capacity of the stadium. The
convention center expansion shall include approximately three hundred eighty-five thousand (385,000) sguare
feet in net floor area of exhibition halls, ballrooms, and meeting rooms, into which a stadium shall be integrated,
which convention center facility may also include offices, restaurants, cafes, kitchen facilities, storage areas,
parking, and other ancillary floor area, customarily part of a convention center facility. The stadium portion of
the development shall have a permanent seating capacity of up to approximately sixty-five thousand (65,000)
seats, including club seats, loge seats, suite seating and other premium seats, with expansion capability up
to a maximum seating capacity of approximately seventy-five thousand (75,000) seats, including club seats,
loge seats, suite seating and other premium seats.

Exclusions

Stadium. The gross floor area of the stadium and its accessory uses, including without limitation concourse
and concession areas, locker rooms, training areas, meeting rooms, office, storage areas, and mechanical
rooms shall be excluded from the calculation of the FAR.

Historic Resources. The gross floor area of a designated historic structure shall be excluded from the
calculation of the FAR if the historic resource is rehabilitated or relocated and incorporated into the development.

Mechanical Penthouses. Mechanical penthouse areas shall be excluded from the calculation of the FAR when
architecturally integrated into the overall building design.

Phantom Floors. Phantom floors shall be excluded from the calculation of the FAR.

PR-09L0-011

N SD SDO-012

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

Roof Decks. Roof deck areas shall be excluded from the calculation of the FAR, unless the perimeter walls
enclosing the area exceed 6 feet in height for non-transparent materials or 12 feet in height for transparent
materials.

Public Uses. Public safety facility areas shall be excluded from the calculation of the FAR.

Public Parking. All above-grade and below-grade parking areas shall be excluded from the calculation of the
FAR.

Urban Open Space / Atria. Urban open space, atria and multi-level interior enclosed spaces and areas shall be
excluded from the calculation of the FAR.

Goals - Development Intensity and Buildout

15.3.2-	G-1 Provide a maximum intensity to facilitate the development of an integrated convention center
expansion and stadium for professional football and other sports and entertainment, together with related
uses, including, but not limited to, retail and commercial uses, accessory athletic team uses, and eating and
drinking establishments.

15.3.2-	G-2 In addition to providing sufficient intensity to facilitate the regional convention center
expansion, tourism, and sports and entertainment development, also establish development limits to ensure
an appropriately sized development for an urban downtown Site-

Policies - Development Intensity and Buildout

15.3.2-	P-1 Exclude the following from intensity calculation:

•	Stadium and accessory uses.

•	Historic resources rehabilitated or relocated that are incorporated into a unified development.

•	Mechanical penthouses, phantom floors, and roof decks.

•	Public safety facilities, above-grade and below-grade parking facilities, and urban open spaces, atria
and multi-level interior enclosed spaces and areas.

15.3.2-	P-2 Establish maximum intensity and buildout.

15.3.2-	P-3 Work proactively with the transit agencies to prioritize the earliest possible relocation of the
bus yards located within the four block area bounded by K Street, 16th Street, Imperial Avenue, and 14th Street
to allow the redevelopment of the District with an integrated convention center expansion and stadium for
professional football and other sports and entertainment, together with related uses.

15.3.3-	Neighborhood

The Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Mixed-Use District will be located between 12th Avenue and 16th
Street in the southern portion of the Southeast sub-district of the East Village neighborhood. It will continue
the tourism, sports and entertainment area created by Petco Park to the west, including a portion of the area
included in the sport and entertainment district created in 1999, and is located immediately east and adjacent
to new residential development between Park Boulevard and 12th Avenue. Across Imperial Avenue to the
southwest is the 12th & Imperial Transit Center with trolley and bus service. The location is consistent with the
Strategic Framework of the General Plan that calls for focusing new development in mixed-use transit nodes.
The convention center expansion and stadium will provide a link between the Neighborhood Center between 14th
and 16th Streets immediately across K Street to the north and the 12th & Imperial Transit Center to the southwest.

Goal - Neighborhood

15.3.3-	G-1 Create a regional convention center expansion, tourism, and sports and entertainment district
patronized by local residents as well as visitors with a mix of convention center, commercial, retail, and sports
and entertainment uses.

15.3.3-	G-2 Develop an integrated convention center expansion and stadium for professional football
and other sports and entertainment, together with related uses, that is a multi-use development that fosters
daytime and nighttime use throughout the year that adds to the viability of the Neighborhood Center to the
north of K Street.

PR-09L0-012

N SD SDO-013

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

15.3.3-	G-3 Encourage the design of the integrated convention center expansion and stadium for
professional football and other sports and entertainment, together with related uses, as a multi-use development
with parking and other amenities that can be shared between uses and other adjacent projects to the extent
feasible.

15.3.3-	G-4 Pursue strategies that foster a vibrant regional convention center expansion, tourism, and
sports and entertainment district while respecting adjacent neighborhoods, including but not limited to, Barrio
Logan, Sherman Heights, Logan Heights, and Golden Hill.

Policies - Neighborhood

15.3.3-	P-1 Authorize a wide variety of permitted uses to create an active mixed-use development that
enlivens the area.

15.3.3-	P-2 Establish design and development standards that foster a unigue district while being
compatible with adjacent areas.

15.4	- Urban Design and Urban Open Space

15.4.1	- Street Grid and Views

The development of an integrated convention center expansion and stadium and related uses over the multi-
block area will reguire the uninterrupted development of the District between K Street and Imperial Avenue
and between 12th Avenue and 16th Street. This will reguire bicycle and vehicular routes to not cross the District
and public right-of-ways within the District to be vacated. No designated view corridors occur within the
Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Mixed-Use District. Existing development south of Imperial Avenue
and Commercial Street precludes view corridors to the south of the District.

Goal - Street Grid

15.4.1	-G-1 Create a unified site for the development of a convention center expansion and stadium for
professional football and other sports and entertainment, together with related uses.

Policy - Street Grid

15.4.1	-P-1 Allow an integrated convention center expansion and stadium for professional football and
other sports and entertainment, together with related uses, to be developed over multiple blocks with the
vacation of public right-of-ways while encouraging pedestrian and bicycle connections between the areas north
of K Street, particularly the Southeast Neighborhood Center, with areas south of Imperial Avenue including the
12th & Imperial Transit Center.

15.4.2	- Streetscape and Building/Street Interface

The Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Mixed-Use District is intended to foster convention center
expansion, tourism, and sports and entertainment patronized by local residents as well as visitors in a
pedestrian-friendly manner that will encourage activity on the street and connections to adjacent areas of
downtown. The streetscape should be consistent around the perimeter of the District to create a unified theme.
The Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Planned District should contain specific provisions for building/
street interface and providing for building articulation and limiting blank walls.

Goals - Streetscape and Building/Street Interface

15.4.2-	G-1 Enhance the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Mixed- Use District through distinctive
streetscape. Promote street trees and unified landscape treatment along the District's perimeter streets.

15.4.2-	G-2 Envision streets as extensions of downtown's open space network, presenting opportunities
to linger, stroll, and gather, rather than simply as traffic movement spines.

15.4.2-	G-3 Encourage development along streets that offers a rich visual experience; is engaging to
pedestrians; and contributes to street life, vitality, and safety.

Policies - Streetscape and Building/Street Interface

15.4.2-	P-1 Reguire new development to have a cohesive streetscape design.

N SD SDO-014

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

15.4.2-	P-2 Establish specific buildinq/street interface requirements in the implementing Convention
Center Expansion and Stadium Planned District that provide variety and modulation of street walls that
emphasize pedestrian orientation.

15.4.2-	P-3 Establish in the implementing Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Planned District
requirements for the proposed development to undergo advisory design review.

15.4.3	- Urban Open Space and Linkage to Surrounding Neighborhoods

The Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Mixed-Use District should be encouraged to incorporate urban
open spaces generally open to the public to help integrate the project with adjacent development to create
spaces to linger and gather before and after events and throughout the year. The District is located between
the envisioned Neighborhood Center north of K Street and the existing 12th & Imperial Transit Center to the
southwest. The Transportation section below discusses pedestrian and bicycle connections to surrounding
neighborhoods.

Goal - Urban Open Space and Linkage to Surrounding Neighborhoods

15.4.3-	G-1 Encourage the inclusion of urban open space.

Policy - Urban Open Space and Linkage to Surrounding Neighborhoods

15.4.3-	P-1 To the extent feasible, provide urban open spaces at the street level to create gathering spaces
at primary entry points to the District as a wav to create linkages with adjacent neighborhoods.

15.4.4	- Sustainable Development

In the context of downtown San Diego and the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Mixed-Use District,
sustainable development occurs at three levels: Planning, Urban Design, and Green Building

Goal - Sustainable Development

15.4.4-	G-1 Promote sustainable development and design.

Policies - Sustainable Development

15.4.4-	P-1 Allow mixed-use development that fosters efficient use of land.

15.4.4-	P-2 Encourage walking, biking, and transit use to reduce auto- dependency.

15.4.4-	P-3 Require street trees and encourage urban open spaces with trees and landscaping.

15.4.4-	P-4 Encourage building design that meets the applicable state Green Building regulations and, to
the extent feasible, exceeds the state Green Building regulations.

15.5	- Transportation

Streets and Passages

Development of the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Planned Mixed-Use District will require routing
vehicle traffic around the site and vacating public right-of-ways within the District. As discussed earlier in this
chapter, the District is located between the envisioned Neighborhood Center north of K Street and the existing
12th & Imperial Transit Center to the southwest. It is recommended that the project design allow pedestrian and
bicycle passages that do not cross through the District but provide linkages with surrounding neighborhoods
and activity nodes. K Street on the northern perimeter of the District is designated a Green Street that should
be continued along the eastern side of the District-

Goals — Transportation

15.5.1-G-1 Create pedestrian and bicycle links along the periphery of the District to surrounding
neighborhoods.

15.5.1	-G-2 Extend the City's Green Street network outside of the District.

15.5.1	-G-3 Pursue strategies to reduce vehicle travel distances from the freeway to the District.
Policies - Transportation

NSD SDO-015

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

15.5.1-	P-1 To the extent feasible, provide pedestrian and bicycle passages along the periphery of the
District to create linkages between the Neighborhood Center to the north, the 12th & Imperial Transit Center to
the southwest, and neighborhoods south of Imperial Avenue.

15.5.1-	P-2 The proposed Class III bicycle facility proposed for 14th Street should be relocated to the
periphery of the District to provide a continuous connection. If feasible, connecting the bicycle facility within
the District should be evaluated.

15.5.1	-P-3 Encourage 16th Street to be improved as a Green Street-

Parking

Providing parking at standard code rates for each of the uses would provide an oversupply of parking that
would discourage transit use and other modes of transportation. Since most professional football games
occur on Saturdays and Sundays, as do other sporting and entertainment events, when many offices and
businesses are not open, a surplus supply of parking spaces would be available throughout the downtown
area on many event days. Parking for the District should be provided on a shared-use basis and utilize on- and
off-site parking as needed.

Goal - Parking

15.5.2-	G-1 Promote shared parking both on- and off-site with an appropriate guantity of parking to
avoid an oversupply of parking.

Policies - Parking

15.5.2-	P-1 In the parking regulations in the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Planned District,
emphasize shared parking ratios.

15.5.2-	P-2 Allow off-site and shared parking arrangements to maximize efficient use of parking resources
recognizing the surplus supply of parking spaces available on many stadium event days.

15.5.2-	P-3 Provide motorcycle and bicycle parking spaces in addition to automobile spaces.

15.6	- Historic Resources

Local Historic Resource

The Wonder Bread Factory building located at 1441 L Street within the District is a designated local historic
resource on the San Diego Register. Development of an integrated convention center expansion and stadium
may reguire the relocation of the Wonder Bread Factory building, although integration of the facade into the
convention center expansion is encouraged.

Goal - Local Historic Resource

15.6.1	-G-1 Encourage the preservation of the Wonder Bread Factory building facade if feasible.

Policies - Local Historic Resource

15.6.1-	P-1 If feasible, incorporate the Wonder Bread Factory building facade in the design of the
convention center expansion either in its current location or elsewhere within the District.

15.6.1-	P-2 The reguirements of the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Planned District shall
provide the approval and authorization for the incorporation and/or relocation of the Wonder Bread Factory
building facade. No additional review, approval or clearance related to the Wonder Bread Factory building shall
be reguired.

15.7	- Arts and Culture

The integrated convention center expansion and stadium and related uses will be a significant civic
development in the City visited and patronized by residents, visitors, tourists, and spectators. The development
may provide opportunities for public art, sports history and memorabilia collection and/or sports museum and/
or regional and local (college, high school and youth) sports museum.

Goal - Arts and Culture

N SD SDO-016

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

15.7.1-	G-1 Encourage the incorporation of public art sports history and memorabilia and/or museum
and/or regional and local sports museum in the project.

Policies-Arts and Culture

15.7.1-	P-1 Allow a sports history and memorabilia and/or museum and/or regional and local sports
museum as a permitted use in the project.

15.7.1-	P-2 Incorporate public art at a location within the District integrated into the project's design.
15.8- Health & Safety

Geologic and Seismic Hazards

Various regulations enforced by the State of California and City of San Diego are intended to mitigate potential
earthguake-related risks for new and existing development: Alguist-Priolo Zone Act, City of San Diego Fault and
Liguefaction Zones, and Uniform Building Code. These regulations will be implemented in any development.
Known faults and a high potential liguefaction zone have been identified on the western edge of the Convention
Center Expansion and Stadium Mixed-Use District.

Goal - Geologic and Seismic Hazards

15.8.1-	G-1 Maintain a safe and livable environment by mitigating and avoiding risks posed by seismic
conditions.

Policy - Geologic and Seismic Hazards

15.8.1-	P-1 Implement all applicable seismic-safety development reguirements, including Alguist-Priolo
Zone Act, City reguirements for areas subject to potential liguefaction, and building codes.

Noise

An integrated convention center expansion and stadium for professional football and other sports and
entertainment, together with related uses have unigue operating characteristics that warrant unigue regulations
relative to the generation of noise by permitted uses. The environmental design features in Appendix 15A to
this Chapter 15 for the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Mixed-Use District will include appropriate
noise control features.

Goal - Noise

15.8.2-	G-1 Promote design and operational strategies that reduce continuous disruptive noise.
Policies - Noise

15.8.2-	P-1 Develop reguirements for the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Mixed-Use District
that are intended to moderate noise while allowing all permitted uses.

15.8.2-	P-2 Allow a wide range of uses permitted by right including, but not limited to conventions,
exhibitions, trade shows, conferences, meetings, banguets, civic events, pageants, patriotic celebrations, public
and private gatherings, sporting events, live entertainment, concerts, festivals, fairs, public markets, exhibitions,
outdoor activities, fireworks and other special pyrotechnical effects, and eating and drinking establishments.

Environmental Design Features

If an integrated convention center expansion and stadium is developed within the Convention Center Expansion
and Stadium Mixed-Use District covered by this Chapter, the environmental design features in Appendix 15A
shall be the only environmental design features or mitigation measures that apply.

Appendix 15A
Environmental Design Features

The following are environmental design features ("Environmental Features") reguired for the development,
construction, operation, maintenance and/or management of the integrated convention center expansion and
stadium and related uses ("Project") within the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Mixed-Use

District. During the course of implementation of the Project, the developer or operator may reguest
modifications to the Environmental Features and the City Manager or his/her designee may administratively

PR-09L0-016

N SD SDO-017

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

approve such modifications if the City Manager or his/her designee determines that such modifications
provide a similar level of protection from or reduction of the related environmental issues.

ENVIRONMENTAL DESIGN FEATURES	IMPLEMENTATION TIME FRAME
AIR QUALITY (AQ)	
AQ.1: Prepare and implement a Construction Management Plan which	Prior to demolition or grading
includes but is not limited to the followinq, as appropriate:	Permit
1. Exposed soil areas shall be watered twice per day. On windy days	
or when fugitive dust can be observed leavinq the development site,	
additional applications of water shall be applied as necessarv to prevent	
visible dust plumes from leaving the development site. When wind	
velocities are forecast to exceed 25 miles per hour, all ground disturbing	
activities shall be halted until winds are forecast to abate below this	
threshold.  2. Dust suppression techniques shall be implemented including, but	
not limited to, the following:  a. Portions of the construction site to remain inactive longer than a period of three months shall be stabilized to minimize dust	
generation.  b.	On-site access points shall be paved as soon as feasible or watered periodically or otherwise stabilized.  c.	Material transported off-site shall be either sufficiently watered or securely covered to prevent excessive amounts of dust.	
d. The area disturbed by clearing, grading, earthmovinq, or excavation operations shall be minimized at all times.  3. Vehicles on the construction site shall travel at speeds less than 15	
miles per hour.  4. Material stockpiles subject to wind erosion during construction	
activities, which will not be utilized within three days, shall be covered	
with plastic, an alternative cover deemed equivalent to plastic, or	
sprayed with a nontoxic chemical stabilizer.  5. Where vehicles leave the construction site and enter adjacent	
public streets, the streets shall be swept daily or washed down at the	
end of the work day to remove soil tracked onto the paved surface. Any	
visible track-out extending for more than fifty (50) feet from the access	
point shall be swept or washed within thirty (30) minutes of deposition.	
6. All diesel-powered vehicles and equipment shall be properly	
operated and maintained.  7. All diesel-powered vehicles and qasoline-powered equipment shall	
be turned off when not in use for more than five minutes, as required bv	
state law.  8. The construction contractor shall utilize electric or natural qas-	
powered equipment in lieu of gasoline or diesel-powered engines, where	
feasible.	

N SD SDO-018

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

ENVIRONMENTAL DESIGN FEATURES	IMPLEMENTATION TIME FRAME
9. As much as possible, the construction contractor shall time the	
construction activities so as not to interfere with peak hour traffic. In	
order to minimize obstruction of throuqh traffic lanes adjacent to the	
property, a flag-person shall be retained to maintain safety adjacent to	
existing roadways, if necessary.  10. The construction contractor shall support and encourage	
ridesharing and transit incentives for the construction crew.	
11. Low volatile organic compounds (VOC) coatings shall be used	
as reguired by applicable San Diego Air Pollution Control District	
(SDAPCD) rules. Spray eguipment with high transfer efficiency, such as	
the high volume low pressure (HPLV) spray method, or manual coatings	
application such as paint brush hand roller, trowel, spatula, dauber, rag,	
or sponge, shall be used to reduce VOC emissions, where feasible.	
12. If construction eguipment powered by alternative fuel sources (e.g.	
LPG/CNG) is available at comparable cost, the developer shall specify	
that such eguipment be used during all construction activities on the	
development site.  13. The developer shall reguire the use of particulate filters on diesel	
construction equipment if use of such filters is demonstrated to be cost	
competitive for use on this development.  14. During demolition activities, safetv measures as reguired bv Citv/	
Countv/State laws for removal of toxic or hazardous materials shall be	
utilized.  15. Rubble piles shall be maintained in a damp state or otherwise	
stabilized to minimize dust generation.  16. During finish work, low-VOC paints and efficient transfer systems	
shall be utilized, to the extent possible.  17. If alternative-fueled and/or particulate filter-equipped construction	
equipment is not feasible, construction equipment shall use the newest,	
least-polluting equipment, whenever possible.  18. Contractor contact information and responsibilities.	
19.	Construction hours.  20.	Material storage and construction trailer locations.	
21.	Haul routes.  22.	Construction parking plan.  23.	Construction Traffic Management Plan (e.g., flag persons, signs,	
etc. as needed).	
AQ.2: The integrated convention center expansion and stadium shall	Prior to issuance of building
be designed to be able to achieve the criteria for Leadership in Energy	permit
and Environmental Design (LEED) certification as determined by a LEED	
accredited professional.	
AQ.3: Prepare and implement a Transportation Management Plan which	Ongoing during operation
includes but is not limited to the following, as appropriate:	

N SD SDO-019

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

ENVIRONMENTAL DESIGN FEATURES	IMPLEMENTATION TIME FRAME
1. Provide incentives for vanpools and electric vehicles during	
events at the convention center expansion and stadium such as through	
parking rates;  2. Provide incentives to encourage transit use by service employees,	
such as discounted transit passes;  3. Use electric maintenance carts for operations at the convention	
center expansion and stadium where feasible;  4. Establish incentives for parking at outlying areas and using mass	
transit to access the convention center expansion and stadium such as	
through parking rates; and  5. Encourage use of for-fee bus and trolley service from outlying	
areas to the convention center expansion and stadium.	
	
AQ.4: Appoint a construction relations officer to act as a community	Prior to demolition, grading
liaison concerning on-site construction activities. A contact phone	or building permit
number for the construction relations officer shall be posted at the	
property.	
AQ.5: Project construction deliveries shall be scheduled, where feasible,	Ongoing during construction
during off-peak traffic periods to encourage the reduction of trips during	
the most congested periods.	
CULTURAL RESOURCES (CR)	
CR.1: If the potential exists for direct and/or indirect alterations to	Prior to grading or building
retained or relocated designated historical resources, the following	permit
measures shall be implemented. The Applicant shall have a historic	
preservation consultant meeting the Secretary of Interior's Professional	
Qualifications Standards prepare and monitor the implementation of	
a Treatment Plan in accordance with the Secretary of the Interior's	
Standards for the Treatment of Historic Properties and the associated	
applicable Secretary of the Interior's Guidelines. The Treatment Plan	
shall be shown as notes on all applicable construction documents (i.e.	
for construction in which the potential exists for direct and/or indirect	
alterations to retained or relocated designated historical resources on	
the property).	

N SD SDO-020

ENVIRONMENTAL DESIGN FEATURES	IMPLEMENTATION TIME FRAME
CR.2: A qualified archaeologist shall monitor all excavation and grading activities during initial site excavation and grading for project development. If archaeological resources are encountered during the initial ground disturbance, the archaeological monitor shall halt grading in the immediate vicinity where such resources are encountered and shall initiate an archaeological testing program. Archaeological resources found during grading shall be preserved in place to the extent feasible. If preservation in place is not feasible, a data recovery testing program shall be prepared by the archaeologist. The testing program shall include the recordation of artifacts, controlled removal of materials, and curation of a representative sample of recovered resources within a qualified curation facility. A testing report shall be deposited with the California Historical Resources Regional Information Center.	Ongoing during construction
CR.3: The developer shall retain a qualified paleontologist or paleontological monitor to monitor (i) at all times during the original cutting of previously undisturbed sediments within the San Diego Formation to inspect the excavation and spoils for the presence of fossil remains and (ii) at least half-time during the original cutting of previously undisturbed sediments in the Bay Point Formation except if a representative initial sample of the site reveals no significant fossil remains to the satisfaction of the paleontological monitor, then such monitoring may be terminated. When fossils are discovered, the paleontologist or paleontological monitor shall recover them.  The paleontologist or paleontological monitor shall be allowed to temporarily direct, divert or halt excavation work to allow recovery of fossil remains in a timely manner. Fossil remains collected during the monitoring and salvage portion of the mitigation program shall be cleaned, sorted and catalogued and then with the owner's permission, deposited in a scientific institution with paleontological collections. A final summary report shall be prepared outlining the methods followed and summarizing the results of the recovery program. This report shall also include a list of the kinds of fossils recovered, and a summary of the stratigraphic context of all collecting localities. This report shall be submitted to the San Diego Natural History Museum and any scientific institution that received salvaged fossils from the activity.	Ongoing during construction
GEOLOGY/SOILS (GEO)	

N SD SDO-021

ENVIRONMENTAL DESIGN FEATURES	IMPLEMENTATION TIME FRAME
GE0.1: Prepare site-specific engineering geology and geotechnical reports in accordance with the San Diego Building Code to the satisfaction of the Development Services Department and comply with the site-specific recommendations set forth therein. The geology and geotechnical reports shall include site-specific studies and analysis for potential geologic and/or geotechnical hazards at the property. Geotechnical reports shall address the design of foundations, walls below grade, retaining walls, shoring, subgrade preparation for floor slab support, pacing, earthwork methodologies, and dewatering, where applicable. Geology and geotechnical reports may be prepared separately or together and signed and stamped by a Professional Geologist or Professional Engineer licensed in the State of California.	Prior to grading or building permit
GEO.2: Where applicable, demonstrate that liguefaction either poses a sufficiently low hazard to satisfy the defined acceptable risk criteria, in accordance with applicable reguirements, or implement suitable measures to effectively reduce the hazard to acceptable levels in accordance with applicable building reguirements. The analysis of liguefaction risk shall be signed and stamped by a Professional Geologist or Professional Engineer licensed in the State of California and shall be submitted to the satisfaction of the Development Services Department.	Prior to grading or building permit
GEO.3: Structures shall be designed to withstand hydrostatic pressures consistent with applicable building regulations.  HAZARDOUS MATERIALS (HAZ)	Prior to construction
HAZ.1: Any soil, groundwater and/or subsurface structures contaminated with hazardous substances encountered on-site during construction shall be managed in accordance with applicable laws.  Such management may include without limitation:  removal and proper disposal and/or treatment of any contaminated material encountered on-site as necessary to comply with applicable law;  design and construction of improvements on-site in a manner protective of occupants from contamination to the extent reguired by applicable law:  obtain and comply with any applicable permits or approvals reguired under applicable laws for the management of hazardous materials encountered during construction on-site: and  to the extent that underground storage tanks are encountered during construction, any reguired closure permits for hazardous materials storage structures shall be filed and any reguired remediation of soil and/or groundwater shall be conducted in compliance with applicable laws.	Prior to and/or during construction

N SD SDO-022

ENVIRONMENTAL DESIGN FEATURES	IMPLEMENTATION TIME FRAME
HAZ.2: Asbestos surveys of buildincjs to be demolished and, if necessary, abatement, shall be undertaken in compliance with applicable laws prior to building demolition.	Prior to demolition
HAZ.3: Lead based paint surveys of buildings to be demolished and, if necessary, abatement, shall be undertaken in compliance with applicable laws prior to building demolition.	Prior to demolition
HAZ.4: Hazardous materials, if any, associated with Project construction shall be located and stored in compliance with applicable federal, state and local reguirements. Response procedures for spills and leaks of hazardous materials, if any, shall be established in compliance with applicable federal, state and local reguirements.	Ongoing during construction
HAZ.5: Hazardous materials, if any, associated with maintenance of the Project and uses shall be located and stored in compliance with applicable federal, state and local laws. Response procedures for spills and leaks of hazardous substances, if any, shall be established in compliance with applicable federal, state and local laws.  HYDROLOGY/WATER QUALITY (HYD/WQ)	Ongoing during operation
HYD/WQ.1: Comply with applicable statewide General Permit for Discharges of Storm Water Associated with Construction Activities, if applicable for construction activities on the property. If applicable, a Notice of Intent to Comply shall be filed with the State Water Resources Control Board.	Prior to issuance of building permit
HYD/WQ.2: Comply with applicable National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permit reguirements for municipal storm water and urban runoff discharges to the extent applicable.  LIGHT AND GLARE (LG)	Ongoing during operation
LG.1: Project construction lighting shall be shielded and/or aimed to direct the light source on to the property to the extent feasible. However, construction lighting shall not be so limited as to compromise the safety of construction workers.	Ongoing during construction
LG.2: Luminaires used in field lighting towers shall contain glare control optics and accessories such as arc tube shields and visors to he minimize the impact to the surrounding areas in close proximity to t stadium.	Prior to building permit
LG.3: All building-mounted lighting (non-signage) shall direct the light to the intended object and shall not introduce additional light directly toward neighboring properties outside of the property.	Prior to certificate of occupancy
LG.4: Open-sided parking structures shall use cut-off luminaires or shall provide shields on the perimeter so that light from within the structure does not result in substantial levels of light spill on to off-site residences.	Prior to certificate of occupancy

ENVIRONMENTAL DESIGN FEATURES	IMPLEMENTATION TIME FRAME
LG.5: Surface parking lot lighting shall use full cut-off type fixtures to reduce intrusive light spill onto adjacent off-site residences.	Prior to building permit
LG.6: All exterior internally illuminated signage that is located immediately adjacent to off-site residences shall be shut-off within 30 minutes after conclusion of an event at the convention center expansion or stadium or 10:00 pm, whichever is later.	Ongoing during operation
LG.7: Stadium and signage lighting shall be designed and oriented in such a manner as to reduce intrusive light spill on to adjacent off-site residences.	Prior to building permit
LG.8: Lighting for any roof-top parking levels should either be wall- mounted or on poles. Light poles should not exceed a maximum height of fifteen feet, should be located at least twenty feet from any property line, and should be designed to limit the visibility of the light source from any property line. Lighting levels should comply with the reguirements of the Illuminating Engineers Society's Manual, as amended.  NOISE (N)	Prior to building permit
N.1: Prepare and implement a Construction Management Plan as set forth in AQ.1. The Construction Management Plan shall include construction noise management measures to reduce construction noise at off-site noise sensitive locations to the extent feasible. The Construction Management Plan shall provide that project construction and demolition activities shall be limited to between 7:00 am to 8:00 pm Monday through Saturday and 7:00 am to 6:00 pm Sundays and holidays except that the following construction activities may occur between 8:00 pm and 7:00 am Monday through Saturday and 6:00 pm and 8:00 am Sundays: construction activities which cannot be interrupted (e.g., continuous concrete pours): construction activities conducted within a structure located more than 400 feet from an off- site noise sensitive location: construction activities that must occur during such hours due to restrictions imposed by a public agency; and emergency repairs, such as repairs to damage to utility infrastructure.  At a minimum, the construction noise management plan shall include the following reguirements:  •	Noise-generating eguipment operated at the property shall be eguipped with noise control devices to the extent reasonably available (i.e., mufflers, intake silencers, lagging, and/or engine enclosures). All eguipment shall be properly maintained to assure that no additional noise, due to worn or improperly maintained parts, would be generated.  •	Pile drivers used within 1,500 feet of off-site sensitive uses such as residences and schools shall be eguipped with noise control measures to reduce sound energy emissions associated with pile driving (e.g., use of noise attenuation shields or shrouds). Holes for piles will be pre-drilled to the extent feasible.	Prior to grading or buildina permit

N SD SDO-024

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

ENVIRONMENTAL DESIGN FEATURES	IMPLEMENTATION TIME FRAME
• Temporary sound barriers shall be used and relocated, as needed,	
for gradina and foundation work whenever construction activities occur within 150 feet of off-site residences, to block line-of-site between the construction equipment and the residences.  •	Loading areas shall be located awav from off-site residences .  •	Haul routes shall avoid noise-sensitive land uses to the extent feasible.  •	Staging areas and construction material storage areas shall be located awav from off-site residences.  •	A construction relations officer shall be designated to serve as a liaison with off-site residents, and a contact telephone number shall be provided to residents.	
N.2: The amplified sound system for concert events and other non-	Ongoing during operation
athletic events (including sound systems brought into the convention	
center expansion and stadium for specific events) shall be designed so	
that sound levels do not exceed 105 dBA, as measured at 100 feet from	
the edge of the stage.	
N.3: The convention center expansion and stadium sound svstem,	Ongoing during operation
including the public address svstem, shall be designed, installed, and	
operated to reduce sound spillage to adjacent off-site sensitive uses	
such as residences and schools.	
N.4: Fireworks displays at stadium events shall be limited to the	Ongoing during operation
following:  •	Other than as set forth below, no more than three 30-minute and ten 10-minute pyrotechnic fireworks display shall occur during a single football season:  •	Additional pyrotechnic fireworks displays of no more than 10- minute duration may occur on Season Opening Game, Season Closing Game, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, New	
Year's Eve, a winter holiday show, Playoff Games, Super Bowl Games: and  • Theatrical fireworks displays of no more than 30 seconds duration	
will be allowed following home-team scoring events at each game.	
	
PUBLIC SERVICES (PB)	
PB.1: During Project construction, implement security measures at	Ongoing during construction
construction sites that are accessible to the general public. Security	
measures could include, but are not limited to, fencing, security lighting,	
and providing security personnel to patrol construction sites.	
	
PB.2: A waste management plan shall be implemented to reduce waste	Prior to certificate of
diverted to local landfills. Components of the plan may include without	occupancy
limitation:  • types of materials expected to enter the waste stream:	

N SD SDO-025

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

ENVIRONMENTAL DESIGN FEATURES	IMPLEMENTATION TIME FRAME
•	source reduction techniques to be used;  •	recycling and/or composting programs;  •	and buy recycled programs.	
PB.3: Clearly marked, durable, source sorted recycling bins shall be	Ongoing during operation
conveniently located within the property unless the property is under	
contract with a vendor to sort waste.	
PB.4: As part of the convention center expansion and stadium	Ongoing during operation
operations, the operator shall develop in consultation with the police	
department and fire department, and update as necessary, and	
implement a safety and operations plan that manages compliance with	
site security rules including noise management measures, alcoholic	
beverage sale conditions and communications systems and access	
for emergency response. The plan shall include provisions to ensure	
compliance with State requirements related to the sale of alcoholic	
beverages.	
PB.5: The operator shall pay the police and/or fire department the	Per event during operation
actual cost to staff additional personnel and equipment required by the	
operator.	
TRANSPORTATION, CIRCULATION, ACCESS AND PARKING (T)	
	
T.1: An Event Transportation Management Plan (ETMP) shall be	Prior to certificate of
developed and implemented in coordination with affected government	occupancy
agencies. The ETMP may include, without limitation, the following:	
•	Event traffic control  •	Parking management  •	Police control/traffic enforcement prior to and after major events  •	Incident management plans and procedures  •	Pedestrian and bicycle management  •	Transit management Public information program.	
T.2: Prepare and implement a Construction Traffic Management Plan as	Prior to grading or building
set forth in AQ.1 above. The Construction Traffic Management Plan shall	permit
include provisions for temporary traffic controls, such as flag persons,	
as needed, during construction to maintain traffic flows.	
	
T.3: Prepare and implement a Transportation Management Plan as set	Ongoing during operation
forth in AQ.2 above.	

N SD SDO-026

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

ENVIRONMENTAL DESIGN FEATURES	IMPLEMENTATION TIME FRAME
T.4: Prepare and implement a Parking Management Plan which may	Prior to certificate of
include provisions to protect parking in the Gaslamp District, East	occupancy
Village and regulatory parking obligations of the Convention Center	
and restrict event parking in surrounding neighborhoods, which may	
include providing signage indicating "no event parking", limited parking	
duration during events, security guards, and/or a parking fee structure	
to discourage long-term event parking.	
T.5: Provide adeguate sidewalk widths in all pedestrian corridors to the	Prior to certificate of
extent feasible public health, safety or building code reguirements do not	occupancy
conflict with the improvement.	

Section 5. Amendments to San Diego Municipal Code.

The voters hereby amend the City of San Diego Municipal Code as follows (new language to be inserted
into the San Diego Municipal Code is shown as underlined text and language to be deleted is shown in
strikethrough text; language shown in regular type reflects the existing San Diego Municipal Code text and is
provided for informational/reference purposes):

San Diego Municipal Code Chapter 3, Chapter 5, Chapter 6, Chapter 15, and the Official Zoning Map of the
City of San Diego, are hereby amended as follows:

A.	The real property bounded by the centerlines of the public right-of-ways of K Street on the north, 16th
Street on the east, Imperial Avenue on the south, and 12th Avenue on the west, as shown on Exhibit B to this
Initiative, is rezoned as follows: 1) the eastern portions are rezoned from CCPD-BP to CCPCP- BP/CCESPD-
MU; and 2) the western portions are rezoned from CCPD-MC to CCPD-MC/CCESPD-MU, as the zones are
described and defined by the Land Development Code and this Initiative. This action amends the Official
Zoning Map of the City of San Diego.

B.	Chapter 15 of the San Diego Municipal Code, part of the San Diego Land Development Code, is hereby
amended to add Article 21 to read as follows:

Article 21: The Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Planned District
Division 1: General Rules
§1521.0101 Purpose and Applicability

(a) Purpose

The purpose of the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Planned District is to
establish land use regulations and development criteria to permit as a development option
the development of a new integrated Convention Center Expansion and Stadium and related
uses within the amended Downtown Community Plan area. This Article is intended to
establish regulations that will:

1.	Result in a distinctive world-class integrated Convention Center Expansion and
Stadium.

2.	Allow a diverse range of permitted uses to facilitate the area's further transformation
into a regional convention center expansion, tourism, and sports and entertainment
district patronized by local residents as well as visitors.

3.	Establish standards that allow for a unique, unified site for development of an
integrated Convention Center Expansion and Stadium, together with related uses.

N SD SDO-027

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

4.	Provide for advisory design review for an integrated Convention Center Expansion
and Stadium, together with related uses.

5.	Provide economic development opportunities associated with development of an
integrated Convention Center Expansion and Stadium, together with related uses.

FIGURE A

CONVENTION CENTER EXPANSION AND STADIUM PLANNED DISTRICT

(b)	Boundaries and Applicability

(1)	The Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Planned District is within the
boundaries of the amended Downtown Community Plan, specifically those properties
bounded by K Street on the north, 16th Street on the east Imperial Avenue on the
south, and 12th Avenue on the west as shown in Figure A.

(2)	This Article shall be applicable if an integrated Convention Center Expansion and
Stadium is to be developed within the boundaries described above and such
Convention Center Expansion and Stadium development shall solely be regulated by
this Article.

(3)	If an integrated Convention Center Expansion and Stadium is not to be developed
within the boundaries of the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Planned
District this Article shall have no force and effect.

§1521.0102 Applicable Regulations

(a) Notwithstanding any provision of the San Diego Municipal Code or any other law of the City
to the contrary, including but not limited to, Chapter 15, Article 1, Division 1, the only applicable Land

N SD SDO-028

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

Development Code regulations in the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Planned District shall
be those included in this Article 21. The Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Planned District
regulations shall supersede any regulations in the Land Development Code that are inconsistent with the
regulations in this Article.

(b) The applicable regulations of the Land Development Code regarding Grading Regulations
(Chapter 14, Article 2, Division 1), Drainage Regulations (Chapter 14, Article 2, Division 2), Subdivision
Regulations (Chapter 14, Article 4), Building Regulations (Chapter 14, Article 5), Electrical Regulations
(Chapter 14, Article 6), Plumbing Regulations (Chapter 14, Article 7), and Mechanical Regulations
(Chapter 14, Article 8) shall apply. Where there is a conflict between the Land Development Code and
this Article, this Article shall apply.

§1521.0103 Definitions

The following definitions and those definitions related to signs in Section 1521.0403(e) apply to
this Article. Each word or phrase that is defined in this Article appears in the text of this Article in
italicized letters.

Accessory structure means a structure attached to or detached from a primary structure located
on the same premises that is customarily incidental and subordinate to the primary structure or
use. The term accessory structure includes accessory buildings.

Accessory use means a use of land or building, or portion thereof that is customarily incidental
to, related to, and clearly subordinate to a primary use of the land or building located on the
same premises.

Active commercial uses mean commercial uses that are accessible to the general public,
that generate walk-in clientele, and that contribute to a high level of pedestrian activity.

Active commercial uses include retail shops, restaurants, bars, commercial recreation and
entertainment, personal and convenience services, banks, travel agencies, airline ticket agencies,
childcare facilities, cultural uses, theaters and the performing arts, libraries, museums, and
galleries.

Applicant means the developer of the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium who has filed an
application for a permit, map, or other matter.

Blank wall means any street wall area that is not transparent, including solid doors and
mechanical area wall(s).

Bona-fide eating establishment means a place that is primarily used for serving individually
prepared meals to guests for compensation. A bona-fide eating establishment contains suitable
kitchen facilities within the establishment and adeguate seating for patrons.

Buildinp materials mean all materials visible from the exterior of a development including
materials used for walls, roofs, structures, windows, doors, and architectural or decorative
features applied to the facade.

Childcare facility mans a facility that provides nonmedical care for children less than 18 years
of age, on less than a 24-hour basis including small family day care homes, large family day care
homes, and child care centers.

Civic San Diego means the non-profit public corporation, of which the City of San Diego is the
sole member, or a successor organization, if any.

Clearing means the cutting and removal of existing vegetation from a site without disturbance to
the soil or surface or destruction of the root system.

Convention Center Expansion means a convention center exhibition facility containing
approximately three hundred eighty-five thousand (385,000) sguare feet in net floor area of
exhibition halls, ballrooms, and meeting rooms, into which a Stadium shall be integrated, which
convention center facility may also include offices, restaurants, cafes, kitchen facilities, storage

N SD SDO-029

areas, parking, and other ancillary gross floor area, customarily part of a convention center
facility.

Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Development Permit means the permit(s) which are
required pursuant to this Article.

Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Planned District means the Planned District governed
by this Article.

Cultural institution or cultural use means a non-profit institution recognized as a 501 (c),
displaying or preserving objects of interest in the arts or sciences. Cultural uses include libraries,
museums, non- profit art galleries, and interpretive centers.

Design review means ministerial advisory design review of the proposed Convention Center
Expansion and Stadium within the Planned District governed by this Article.

Development means the act, process, or result of dividing a parcel of land into two or more
parcels; of erecting, placing, constructing, reconstructing, converting, establishing, altering,
maintaining, relocating, demolishing, using, or enlarging any building, structure, improvement,
lot, or premises', of clearing, grubbing, excavating, embanking, filling, managing brush, or
agricultural clearing on public or private property including the construction of slopes and
facilities incidental to such work; or of disturbing any existing vegetation.

Eating and drinking establishments means businesses serving prepared food or beverages for
consumption on or off the premises.

Encroachment means an intrusion of development into the public right-of-way or into required
yards.

Fence means a vertical barrier or enclosure constructed of any material that supports no load
other than its own weight.

Floor means a horizontal, continuous, supporting, or nonsupporting surface of a structure.

Floor Area Ratio (FAR) means the ratio of total enclosed building gross floor areaXo the area of
the premises. The FAR is an indication of the intensity of development. #1/? shall not include the
gross floor area of the Stadium and its accessory uses and other gross floor areas excluded by
this Article-

Foot/ sales means the retail sales of prepared food or food for home preparation including
bakeries, candy stores, ice cream stores, delicatessens, grocery stores and supermarkets.

Grade means the elevation of the surface of the ground.

Grading means any earthwork that involves grubbing, excavating, embanking, or filling.

Gross floor area means the area included within the surrounding exterior walls of a building or
portion thereof, exclusive of certain elements and features as set forth in Section 1521.0104.
Gross floor area does not include areas below grade which are considered basements under the
California Building Code.

Grubbing means the removal or destruction of vegetation by disturbance to the root system or
soil surface by mechanical, chemical, or other means.

Kitchen means an area used or designed to be used for the preparation of food which includes
facilities to aid in the preparation of food such as a sink, a refrigerator and stove, a range top or
oven.

Live entertainment mans live performances by musicians, singers, dancers, disc jockeys, or
similar entertainers, and may include dancing by customers of an establishment.

Lot means a parcel, tract, or area of land established by plat, subdivision, or other legal means to
be owned, used, or developed.

Mixed-use development means development that includes two or more land uses.

PR-09L0-029

N SD SDO-030

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

Mobile food trucks we motorized vehicles that function as transportable retail food and beverage
facilities. Mobile food trucks do not include pushcarts.

Outdoor activities temporary uses that include tailgating, farmer's markets and other
markets, arts and cultural events, social or community events.

Pedestrian entrance means a functional entrance or door that is accessible to the general public
from an enclosed occupied space. This does not include entrances to mechanical equipment or
storage areas, emergency exits, or decorative nonfunctional doors and entrances.

Penthouse means a structure for enclosing mechanical eguipment or stairs that is located on the
roof of a multi-story building and set back from the vertical projections of the exterior building
walls.

Personal and convenience services include services of a freguently recurring nature such as
barber and beauty shops, drug stores, dry cleaning, self-service laundries, shoe repair and
tailors.

Premises means the area of land within the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Planned
District.

Previously conforming means the circumstance where a use or structure complied with all
applicable state and local laws when it was first built or came into existence, but because of a
subseguent change in zone or development regulations, is not in conformance with the current
zone or all development regulations applicable to that zone.

Primary use means the allowed use on the premises that occupies a majority of the area of the
premises.

Process One means an administrative process that allows the City Manager or his/her designee
to approve or deny a permit based upon ministerial criteria outlined in this Article.

Property line means a line that defines the boundaries of a lot or the premises for purposes of
applying development regulations.

Public right-of-way means a public easement for streets, alleys, or other uses.

Public safety facility means a facility operated by the City of San Diego or its agent that is utilized
for public safety and emergency services, including police and fire protection.

Pushcart means moveable, wheeled, non-motorized vehicles used by vendors for the sale of food
or beverage products or other retail items.

Roof deck means an enclosed or partially enclosed area, with or without an overhead structure,
cover, or roof, that is located on a flat or relatively flat roof of a building. Any walled area erected
exclusively to screen mechanical eguipment is not a roof deck.

Screen, screened or screening means partial or full enclosure of a space or area by solid
materials or landscaping that are compatible with the materials and architectural design of the
development in order to block views of the area from nearby development or public rights- of-
wav.

Setback means a reguired distance inward from and perpendicular to a property line at or behind
which all structures must be located unless otherwise specified.

Shared parking means the sharing of an oW-street parking facility or facilities by two or more
uses.

Stadium means a first class professional football stadium with a permanent seating capacity of
up to approximately sixty-five thousand (65,000) seats, including club seats, loge seats, suite
seating and other premium seats, with an expansion seating capacity of up to approximately
seventy-five thousand (75,000) seats, including club seats, loge seats, suite seating and other
premium seats, for larger events, including Super Bowls, and other ancillary uses, including
without limitation, concession areas, restaurants, bars, clubs, retail stores, kiosks, media

PR-09L0-030

N SD SDO-031

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

facilities, athletic training and medical facilities, locker rooms, offices, meeting rooms, banquet
facilities, ticketing facilities, on-site and off-site signage, scoreboards, and other ancillary
facilities customarily part of a stadium of a quality necessary to host professional football,
professional soccer, collegiate, and civic events, and conventions, exhibitions and concerts.

Story means the area between grade and finished floor; the area between finish-Z/oorelevations
or the area between the Msh-floor elevation and the roof elevation.

Street means that portion of the public right-of-way that is dedicated or condemned for use as a
public road and includes highways, boulevards, avenues, places, drives, courts, lanes, or other
thoroughfares dedicated to public travel, but does not include alleys.

Street frontage means the length of the property line along the street it borders.

Street wall means the building facade along a property line adjacent to any public street. The
street i/ua/7 may include arcades, colonnades, recessed entrances, or urban open space.

Structure means an edifice or building of any kind or any construction built up or composed of
parts joined together in some definite manner including a wall, fence, pier, post, sipn, or shelter.

Structured parking means all parking facilities that serve a primary use or that are open to the
general public.

Urban open space means any usable space accessible to the general public which is 1,000
sguare feet or greater in size and includes plazas or parks.

§1521.0104 Rules of Calculation and Measurement

Gross floor area shall not include the following:

(a)	Stadium and its accessory uses, including without limitation concourse and concession
areas, locker rooms, training areas, meeting rooms, office, storage areas, and mechanical
rooms, shall not count as cross floor area.

(b)	Designated historic resources shall not count as gross floor area if the designated historic
resource is rehabilitated or relocated and incorporated into the development.

(c)	Mechanical penthouses shall not count as cross floor area when architecturally integrated
into the overall building design.

(d)	Phantom floors shall not count as cross floor area.

(e)	Roof decks shall not count as gross floor area unless three (3) or more of the perimeter
walls enclosing the area exceed 6 feet in height for non-transparent materials or 12 feet in
height for transparent materials.

(f)	Public safety facilities shall not count as pross floor area.

(g)	Noove-grade and be\o\N-grade parking and loading areas shall not count as gross floor
area.

(h)	Urban open space, atria and multi-level interior enclosed space shall not count as gross
floor area.

Article 21: The Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Planned District Division
Division 2: Permits and Procedures
§1521.0201 Administrative Regulations

(a} Administration

(1) If an integrated Convention Center Expansion and Stadium is to be developed

within the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Planned District, the City shall
administer this Article to ensure compliance with the provisions of this Article.

N SD SDO-032

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

(2) If an integrated Convention Center Expansion and Stadium is not to be developed
within the boundaries of the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Planned
District this Article shall have no force and effect.

(b) Activities Regulated

(1)	No Con vent ion Center Expansion and Stadium building, structure o r i m p ro ve m ent o r
portion thereof shall be erected, constructed, converted, demolished or established
unless it complies with the requirements of this Article.

(2)	The City Manager or his/her designee shall not issue any permit for such activities in
any portion of the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Planned District until
the City Manager or his/her designee has issued a Convention Center Expansion
and Stadium Development Permit signifying compliance with the provisions of this
Article.

§1521.0202 Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Development Permit Process

(a)	Permit Required

(1)	A Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Development Permit shal I be required
for a Convention Center Expansion and Stadium prior to issuance of any City
construction permits within the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Planned
District.

(2)	A permit is not required for modifications, repairs, or other alterations that do not
require any permit issued by the City of San Diego or do not increase gross floor
area.

(b)	Overview of Decision Process

An application for an integrated Convention Center Expansion and Stadium within the
Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Planned District shall be decided in accordance
with the process described below.

(1) Process One

An application for a Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Development Permit
processed in accordance with Process One may be approved or denied by the City
Manager or his/her designee based upon ministerial criteria outlined in this Article. A
public hearing is not required.

(c)	Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Development Permit Process

(1)	Collection of Fees or Deposits

(A)	The applicant shall pay all generally applicable standard City fees or deposits for
a development permit.

(B)	If a deposit is required, and the deposit is insufficient to cover the actual cost
to the City, the applicant shall submit an additional deposit, in an amount
determined by the City Manager to cover the City's actual costs. Actual City
costs will be itemized in a statement to the applicant. Any portion of the
deposit not required to cover the City's processing costs will be returned to the
applicant.

(2)	Review Procedures. A Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Development
Permit shall be subject to the following rules:

(A)	Administrative Review.

(i)	Within fifteen (15) calendar days of receipt of a Convention Center

Expansion and Stadium Development Permit application, the City Manager
or his/her designee (which for purposes of advisory design review may

N SD SDO-033

include, without limitation, Civic San Diego) shall initiate an advisory
design review of the application as set forth in Section 1521.0202(c)(2)

(B)	below. Advisory design review shall occur prior to conducting an
administrative review of the development m accordance with Process
One. The City Manager or his/her designee shall not issue the Convention
Center Expansion and Stadium Development Permit until the applicant has
completed the advisory design review lor the basic concept/schematic
phase.

(ii)	The City Manager or his/her designee shall issue the decision on the
Convention Center

Expansion and Stadium Development Permit within forty-five (45)
calendar days of the completion of advisory design reviewtor the
design development phase and shall at the applicant's request issue
the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Development Permit
in phases, including but not limited to, clearing, grubbing, demolition,
grading, excavation, foundation, subsurface structure, and superstructure,
following design reviewo\ the basic concept/schematic drawings.

(iii)	The decision of the City Manager or his/her designee regarding the
Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Development Permit is final.

(B)	Advisory design review. Advisory design review of the Convention Center
Expansion and Stadium shall be undertaken by the City Manager or his/her
designee (which for purposes of advisory design review may include, without
limitation, Civic San Diego). The advisory design review process shall consist of
the submission of:

(i)	Basic concept/schematic drawings.

(ii)	Design development drawings.

The City Manager or his/her designee shall provide a detailed design review ot
each drawing submission in writing within thirty (30) calendar days following
receipt of the submission as provided for herein. If the design of the Convention
Center Expansion and Stadium materially changes following design review of
the design development drawings, the applicant shall resubmit the applicable
drawings for subsequent design review. The City Manager or his/her designee
may issue the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Development Permit
in phases following the advisory design reviewol the basic concept/schematic
drawings of the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium.

(C)	Public Notice.

(i)	Notice of advisory design review meetings shall be provided at least 10
days before the design review meeting as provided in (A) and (B) below:

(A)	Written notice is mailed to (i) all addresses and owners of real
property within three hundred (300) feet of the boundary of the District,

(ii) any person who has submitted a written request for notification for the
proposed developments the City, (iii) the officially recognized community
planning group for the District, if any, and (iv) the San Diego County
Regional Airport Authority.

(B)	Placing a display advertisement of at least one-eighth page in a
newspaper of general daily circulation within the City in addition to mailing
the notices as set forth in (A) above.

(ii)	Notice of Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Development Permit.
The applicant requesting the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium

PR-09L0-033

N SD SDO-034

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

Development Permit shall post three public notices on the perimeter of
the District at least 10 days before the City Manager or his/her designee
issues a decision on a Convention Center Expansion and Stadium
Development Permit in the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium
Planned District.

(3)	Development Review Progression

The preparation, submittal, and review of the integrated Convention Center Expansion

and Stadium proposal shall proceed as follows:

(A)	The Convention Center Expansion and Stadium may be reviewed in phases at
the applicant's request. The criteria for submitting each stage of drawings and a
description of the design review process are as follows:

(B)	The basic concept/schematic drawings shall illustrate the basic organization of
the site. The City Manager or his/her designee (which for purposes of advisory
desipn review may include, without limitation, Civic San Diego) shall advise
on the basic concept/schematic drawings for two- and three-dimensional
considerations such as the relationship of land use within the project,
relationship of the project to proposed and existing land uses adjoining the site,
siting considerations such as vehicular and pedestrian circulation, provision
for urban open space, architectural composition, quality of proposed materials,
and three-dimensional images of the project. The applicant shall provide a
narrative explaining the design concept and shall submit the following items as
part of the basic concept/schematic drawings, to the extent applicable for the
development phase being submitted:

(i)	Description of the development concept including the density, gross floor
area devoted to specific land uses, number of floors, type of construction
and FAR.

(ii)	Site plan at a scale no smaller than one thirty-second inch equals one
foot (1/32" = 1'). The site plan shall show the relationship of the proposed
integrated Convention Center Expansion and Stadium and any related uses
proposed at that time to nearby development within approximately three
hundred (300) feet and shall also illustrate the dimensions of the site and
the proposed integrated Convention Center Expansion and Stadium and
any related uses.

(iii)	Floor plans that illustrate subsurface and ground floor plans at a scale not
smaller than one thirty-second inch equals one foot (1/32" = 1').

(iv)	At least two (2) project sections at a scale not smaller than one thirty-
second inch equals one foot (1/32" = 1

(v)	Exterior concept elevations of each street frontage.

(vi)	One (1) exterior perspective drawn from a
street level view.

(vii)	Tabulation of the net and gross building area including FAR, building
coverage, urban open space areas, and total area devoted to parking and
number of spaces.

(viii)	Preliminary identification of materials, finishes, colors and landscaping-

fix) Preliminary off-site improvements, if any, landscape and grading plans
that illustrate the design elements of on-site public spaces.

PR-09L0-034

N SD SDO-035

(x) Statement of conformity to this Article.

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

(xi) Massing model that illustrates the scale and architectural design concept
of the project.

(C)	Design development drawings should be a refinement of the basic concept/
schematic drawings. Responses to advice provided during the advisory
design review ot the basic concept/schematic drawings shall also be Provided-
Drawings should include, to the extent applicable for the development phase
being submitted, accurate site surveys, floor plans, elevations, sections, design
details, and a palette of exterior colors and materials. Additional drawings, such
as pedestrian and vehicular circulation, landscape plans, provision for servicing
(i.e. loading areas), off-site improvement drawings, utility infrastructure,
exterior architectural features, urban design features, or other project features,
may also be provided to clarify the intent and extent of the project.

(d)	Determination. A Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Development Permit shall be
granted if the City Manager or his/her designee determines that the proposed integrated Convention
Center Expansion and Stadium, as submitted or modified, is consistent with this Article.

(1)	Permit Issuance. If the City Manager or his/her designee approves a Convention
Center Expansion and Stadium Development Permit, in total or in phases, the
development shall be referred to the Development Services Department for any
other ministerial actions as necessary. Denial of a Convention Center Expansion and
Stadium Development Permit reguires the City Manager or his/her designee to issue a
detailed written determination of non-conformance with the provisions of this Article
specifying the specific provisions of this Article, which have not been satisfied.

(2)	Permit Time Limits. A Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Development
Permit is effective for three years from the date of approval, which shall automatically
be tolled during the period of any legal challenges. If a building permit has not been
obtained within the three years, the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium
Development Permit shall be extended for an additional year upon the applicant
demonstrating good faith efforts to obtain the building permit.

(e)	Minor Modifications and Interpretations. Minor modifications from the reguirements
and development standards in this Article may be approved by the City Manager or his/her designee
pursuant to Process One. A minor modification may include, but is not limited to, a variation not to
exceed five percent (5%) of a maximum height of a building or structure or a sign or to the locations
of signs. Advisory design review is not reguired. Whenever any ambiguity or uncertainty exists
related to the uses permitted in the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Planned District or the
application of this Article so that it is difficult to determine the precise application of the provisions
of the Article, the City Manager or his/her designee shall, upon application by the applicant issue
written interpretations of the reguirements of this Article consistent with the purpose and intent of this
Article. A minor modification or interpretation pursuant to this provision shall not be deemed to be an
amendment to this Article. The decision of the City Manager or his/her designee shall be final.

Article 21: The Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Planned District
Division 3: Zoning

§1521.0301 Land Use District

(a)	Land Use District. The entire Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Planned District
shall be located in the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Mixed Use District subject to the use
regulations in Section 1521.0302.

(b)	Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Mixed Use (CCESPD-MU). This district
accommodates mixed-use development that supports an integrated Convention Center Expansion and
Stadium and related uses, including without limitation accessory uses, active commercial uses, urban
open space, and outdoor activities.

N SD SDO-036

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

§1521.0302 Use Regulations

(a)	Previously conforming Land Uses and Structures

Prior to the development of an integrated Convention Center Expansion and Stadium, land
uses and structures that were legally established under previous regulations but that do
not conform to the land use regulations of this Article may continue to exist and operate,
and the structures may be renovated, remodeled, and/or interior tenant improvements
constructed provided the gross floor area is not increased. A change of use that does not
expand the gross floor area of an existing structure is allowed.

(b)	Permitted Land Uses

Uses Permitted by Right. The following uses are permitted by right in the Convention
Center Expansion and Stadium Planned District and shall not require a Site Development
Permit Neighborhood Use Permit, Conditional Use Permit, or other similar permit.

(1)	I nteq rated Convention Center Expansion and Stadium

that may be used for conventions, exhibitions, trade shows, conferences, meetings,
banquets, civic events, pageants, patriotic celebrations, public and private gatherings,
weddings, live entertainment concerts, festivals, fairs, public markets, exhibitions, outdoor
activities, and other similar uses;

(2)	Active commercial uses',

(3)	Alcoholic beverage sales and service for on-site consumption within general seating,
loge seating, club seating, suites, concourses, bona-fide eating establishments,
restaurants, cafes, sidewalk cafes, lounges, bars, clubs, banquets, concession stands,
kiosks, pushcarts, mobile food trucks and other establishments (indoor or outdoor)
located throughout and within the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Planned
District within sponsor(s), promotional and hospitality tents, pavilions and exhibits
within the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Planned District and within
other eating and drinkinp establishments within the Convention Center Expansion and
Stadium Planned District

(4)	Athletic training, practice uses, facilities and fields, and fitness facilities and gyms;

(5)	Child care facility

(6)	Cultural institutions and cultural uses including, but not limited to, museums, hall of
fame, displays, memorabilia facilities, sports and entertainment experience facilities,
facilities supporting public tours of the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium,
and accessory uses',

(7)	Eating and drinking establishments including, but not limited to, bona-fide eating
establishments, cafes, sidewalk cafes, lounges, bars, clubs, banquet, catering
services, concession stands, and other establishments (indoor and outdoor) for food
and beverage sales and service;

(8)	Fireworks and other special pyrotechnical and lighting effects in connection with
events in the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Planned District

(9)	Kiosks, pushcarts, mobile food trucks, tents, and similar spectator facilities, including
but not limited to, food sales, beverage, retail sales, entertainment and other
amenities throughout the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Planned District

(10)	Live entertainment

(11)	Medical offices and medical treatment facilities as accessory usesto permitted uses
including sports teams and athletic uses;

(12)	Offices as accessory uses to the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium,
convention, sports, athletic teams, entertainment, media, and other permitted uses;

N SD SDO-037

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

(13)	Outdoor stages, and other similar facilities and venues for outdoor activities-,

(14)	Public assemblies, facilities and uses (indoor and outdoor) including, but not limited
to, tailgating, outdoor activities, live entertainment, concerts, festivals, fairs, public
and private gatherings, public markets, exhibitions, conventions, conferences,
meetings, banquets, civic events, weddings, pageants, patriotic celebrations, and
other similar uses;

(15)	Public safety facilities;

(16)	Retail stores, food sales, kiosks, pushcarts, and similar facilities and uses including,
but not limited to, the sale or rental of products or services associated with any uses
allowed within the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Planned District anti
the sale of merchandise, souvenirs and novelties associated with the athletic teams,
conventions, concerts, entertainment events and activities within the Convention
Center Expansion and Stadium Planned District,

(17)	Signs, including but not limited to, advertising display signs and electronic message
center signs',

(18)	Special events and temporary uses, including but not limited to, carnivals, circuses,
parades, outdoor performances, and other outdoor activities',

(19)	Storage and other accessory structures and accessory uses as are customary and
usual in connection with the permitted land uses;

(20)	Studios and facilities for motion picture, television and radio broadcasting, film
or tape reproductions, closed circuit, cable or pay television or radio satellite
transmission, pay-per-view, wireless networks, Internet, world wide web (including
video streaming), and similar rights by whatever means or process, now existing
or later developed, for preserving, transmitting, disseminating or reproducing data,
images, audio, and other information for hearing or viewing, and on-site media
studios and facilities, including, but not limited to, pre-event, half-time, post-event
features and associated activities;

(21)	Surface and subterranean parking areas, multi-level parking structures, shared
parking facilities, parking entry facilities, including but not limited to, parking payment
structures, public plazas, and transit facilities;

(22)	Telecommunication facilities, including, but not limited to, antennas, transmission,
transmitter, repeater, switching stations, uplinks, downlinks, cell towers, satellite
dishes, microwave facilities, and other facilities related to the transmission of media,
including but not limited to, the broadcast of events;

(23)	Temporary filming activities;

(24)	Temporary and mobile broadcast and video facilities and equipment, and video
displays in outdoor areas, including but not limited to, parking areas;

(25)	Temporary and/or permanent sponsor(s), promotional and hospitality tents, pavilions
and exhibits; and

(26)	Other similar uses consistent with the intent of the Convention Center Expansion
and Stadium Planned District as may be approved by the City Manager or his/her
designee.

§1521.0303 Property Development Regulations

(a) Regulations

The following property development regulations shall apply to the Convention Center

Expansion and Stadium Planned District.

(1) Floor Area Ratio (FAR)

N SD SDO-038

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

A Floor Area Ratio (FAR) of 4.0 shall be the maximum development intensity in
the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Planned District with the following
exemptions:

(A)	Stadium and its accessory uses, including without limitation concourse and
concession areas, locker rooms, training areas, meeting rooms, office, storage
areas, and mechanical rooms, shall not count as gross floor area.

(B)	Designated historic resources shall not count as gross floor area if the
designated historic resource is rehabilitated or relocated and incorporated into
the District.

(C)	Mechanical penthouses shall not count as gross floor area when architecturally
integrated into the overall building design.

(D)	Phantom floors shall not count as gross floor area.

(E)	Roof decks shall not count as gross floor area unless three (3) or more of
the perimeter walls enclosing the area exceed six (6) feet in height for non-
transparent materials or twelve (12) feet in height for transparent materials.

(F)	Public safety facilities shall not count as gross floor area.

(G)	Move-grade and be\o\N-grade parking and loading areas shall not count as
gross floor area.

(H)	Urban open space, atria and multi-level interior enclosed spaces and areas shall
not count as gross floor area.

(2)	Permitted Heights

(A)	Heights for structures in the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Planned
District shall not exceed three hundred fifty (350) feet, excluding architectural
features, scoreboards, structured roof canopies, flagpoles, and lighting facilities
which may exceed the three hundred fifty (350) foot height limit by up to fifty
(50) feet.

(B)	The height of the structures shall be measured from the average of the highest
and lowest grades of the site to the top of the roof excluding uninhabited
architectural projections.

(3)	Minimum lot size and lot coverage. Minimum lot size or lot coverage reguirements
shall not apply in the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Planned District.

(4)	Setbacks. There shall be no minimum front yard, side yard, interior, or rear yard
setbacks.

(5)	Permitted Projections.

(A)	Subsurface structures within the public right-of- way may project up to three

(3)	feet from the curb, or further if permitted by the City.

(B)	Occupied and non-occupied structures may extend over all sidewalks up to the
curb-line, above an elevation of thirty (30) feet as measured from the finished
sidewalk elevation at the curb-line to the building above.

(6)	Street activation. A minimum of fifteen percent (15%) of ground -floor street frontage
shall contain active commercial uses.

(7)	Street wall

(A)	Street wall height. No maximum street i/i/a//height shall apply.

(B)	Street wall facade. The street wall facade should be architecturally modulated to
create visual interest and diversity to be pedestrian-friendly.

PR-09L0-038

N SD SDO-039

(C)	Pedestrian entrances. At least thirty-three percent (33%), as measured as a
percentage of the actual linear footage of the building perimeter, of each side
of the ground floor frontage of the first story building walls that face a public
street should be devoted to pedestrian entrances, visually open fence, or
windows affording views into the stadium concourses, or active commercial
uses, if feasible. All blank facades should be enhanced by architectural detailing,
artwork, landscaping, signage or similar features having visual interest.

(8)	Urban open space. The development is encouraged to incorporate urban open space
open to the sky at the street level.

(9)	Fences and Freestanding Walls. Fences and freestanding walls may not exceed twenty
(20) feet in height above adjacent finished grade.

§1521.0304 Urban Design Guidelines

(a) Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Design Guidelines

The following guidelines are suggested for consideration in the design process for
development within the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Planned District
and are not mandatory.

(1)	Character. The following strategies form the basis of the design of buildings,
streetscapes, plazas, and urban open spaces within the District:

(A)	Scale and Feeling of Public Space. Create a pedestrian scale appropriate
for a small number of people as well as larger crowds.

(B)	Language and Vocabulary of the District. Employ elements to reinforce
the spatial structure of the district, to convey the symbolism of the
Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Planned District and to
provide information and directions.

(C)	Territoriality of Public Space. All spaces should have a sense of
ownership.

(D)	Composition and Juxtaposition of Elements. Buildings, streetscape
improvements, and landscaping should be designed to create a
memorable experience.

(2)	Buildinp materials. Structures should be clad in durable high-grade materials
(stone, tile, metal, brick, glass or similar) and these materials should wrap
corners of exposed interior property //bewails a minimum of three (3) feet.

Exit corridors, garage openings, and all recesses should provide a finished
appearance to the street.

(3)	Utilities. Electrical transformers and generators may be located above-grade
if located on private property outside the public right-of-way. Electrical
transformers and generators should be located below-graote if within the public
right-of-way. If located within a be\o\N-grade vault within the public right-of-
way, the access hatch to the vault should be located at least five (5) feet back
from the street curb, except that a minimum width access hatch may be located
less than five (5) feet from the street curb if it does not interfere with the
placement of street trees. Areas housing trash, storage, or other utility services
should be located in the garage or be screened from view from the public right-
of-way and adjoining developments, except for utilities reguired to be exposed
by the City or utility company.

Backflow prevention devices should be located in a building alcove, landscaped
area, or utility room within the building, outside of the public right-of-way,
and screened from view. Utility services should not be located above grade in

PR-09L0-039

N SD SDO-040

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

the public ripht-of-wav unless no feasible alternative would better protect a
designated historic resource.

(4)	Blank walls. Blank walls on the ground level of buildings should be limited in
order to provide a pleasant and rich pedestrian experience.

(5)	Rooftops

(A)	Penthouse space, mechanical eguipment, stair and elevator overruns,
emergency helipads, vertical roof attachments, and decorative roof
construction are allowed to achieve distinctive building tops, which should
be designed as an integral part of the architectural design.

(B)	Mechanical eguipment, appurtenances, and access areas should
be grouped and architecturally screed consistent with the overall
composition of the building.

(6)	Lighting. Lighting for construction and operation of uses within the Convention
Center Expansion and Stadium Planned District, including within the Convention
Center Expansion and Stadium, shall be regulated solely by this Article and the
environmental design features applicable to the Convention Center Expansion
and Stadium Mixed- Use District (Appendix 15A to Chapter 15 of the Downtown
Community Plan), notwithstanding any other provision of the San Diego
Municipal Code or any other law of the City to the contrary.

(7)	Noise. Noise from construction and operation of uses within the Convention
Center Expansion and Stadium Planned District, including within the Convention
Center Expansion and Stadium, shall be regulated solely by this Article and the
environmental design features applicable to the Convention Center Expansion
and Stadium Mixed- Use District (Appendix 15A to Chapter 15 of the Downtown
Community Plan), notwithstanding any other provision of the San Diego
Municipal Code or any other law of the City to the contrary-

Article 21: The Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Planned District

Division 4: General and Supplemental Regulations

§1521.0401 Off-Street Parking and Loading Regulations

(a)	Applicability. Notwithstanding any other provision of the San Diego Municipal Code or any
other law of the City to the contrary, solely the otf-street parking regulations of this Section 1521.0401
shall apply to uses within the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Planned District.

(b) Off-Street Parking Space and Loading Bay Reguirements. The parking reguirements in
Table 1521-04A and Section 1521.0401 shall apply to uses in the Convention Center Expansion and
Stadium Planned District.

(c)	Parking spaces shall be provided on a shared-use basis to avoid an oversupply of parking
that would deter transit use and shall be approved as part of the Convention Center Expansion and
Stadium Development Permit. A shared parking demand study shall not be reguired.

TABLE 1521-04A
NON-RESIDENTIAL OFF-STREET PARKING SPACE REQUIREMENTS

Use Category	Minimum Required	Notes
Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Planned District base requirement	1,300 parking spaces (which includes replacement of existing baseball stadium parking within the District)	

N SD SDO-041

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

Use Category	Minimum Required	Notes
Convention Center Expansion	No additional above the Planned District base requirement	Convention Center Expansion shall be exempt beyond the Planned District base requirement
Stadium	Exempt	Stadium shall be exempt beyond the Planned District base requirement
Accessory uses	Exempt	Accessory uses within the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium shall be exempt from providing additional parking
Office	Exempt	Offices are accessory use within the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium and exempt from providing additional parking.
Retail	Exempt	Retail spaces shall be exempt beyond the Planned District base requirement.
Eatinp and drinkinp establishments	Exempt	Eatinp and drinkinp establishments shall be exempt beyond the Planned District base requirement.

(1)	Motorcycle and Bicycle Parking. Motorcycle, and bicycle parking spaces should be
provided.

(2)	Otf-street Loading.

(A)	For developments (other than the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium)
containing 30,000 to 100,000 square feet of commercial space, one off-street
loading bay shall be provided that shall be a minimum of thirty (30) feet deep,
fourteen (14) feet wide, and fourteen (14) feet tall (measured from the inside
walls).

(B)	For the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium:

(i)	The number and size of loading bays should be as appropriate for efficient
operation of the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium as determined
by the applicant,

(ii)	Loading bays should provide direct access into the internal circulation
system of the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium:

(iii)	Loading bays should share the parking access driveway, unless separate
driveways better facilitate access to the loading bay and parking areas and
decrease potential conflicts; and

(iv)	Loading bay location should minimize traffic conflicts.

(d)	Existing Buildings

PR-09L0-041

N SD SDO-042

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

Existing buildings may be converted from one land use to another without providing
additional parking spaces.

(e)	Subterranean Garages and Basements. Encroachments in the public right-of-way may be
permitted as part of the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Development Permit subject to the
following additional criteria:

(1)	Underground encroachments located more than eight (8) feet below the top of
the sidewalk shall not be located within five (5) feet from the curb face, except to
accommodate access hatches to underground vaults, unless otherwise permitted by
the City. Such hatches shall be located to avoid interference with street tree planting.

(2)	No encroachment shall be allowed to conflict with any approved plan for street tree
planting and shall maintain a clear zone for such planting for a depth of eight (8) feet
at the reguired locations, unless otherwise permitted by the City.

(f)	Structured parking facility guidelines

Above-grade parking facilities in the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Planned
District should conform to the following standards:

(1)	Parking located above the ground level should comply with the following:

(A)	Roof-top parking is allowed.

(B)	Any open areas in the exterior facade of the structure should be designed as an
integral component of the overall architecture of the development.

(2)	All interior surfaces of a parking structure visible from the exterior of the garage
should be painted.

(3)	All duct work or utility functions serving a parking structure should be screened from
view from the public right-of-way.

(g)	Parking Space Standards

All parking spaces reguired by this Section shall meet City standards. Tandem spaces and
mechanical automobile lifts may be incorporated in the development.

(h)	Driveway Slopes and Security Gates

Driveway slopes shall meet City standards. There shall be a transition behind the public
right-of-way not to exceed a gradient of five percent (5%) for a distance of ten (10) feet.
Security gates shall be located a minimum distance often (10) feet from the property line,
and the door swing from any security gate shall not encroach into the ten (10) foot reguired
minimum distance from the property line.

§1521.0402 Landscaping and Equipment Screening Guidelines

(a)	Purpose. Landscaping for the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium should strive
to conserve energy by the provision of shade trees over streets, sidewalks, parking areas, and other
paving; to conserve water through low-water-using planting and irrigation design; and to improve the
appearance of the built environment by increasing the Quality and Quantity of landscaping visible from
public rights-of-way, and adjacent properties, with the emphasis on landscaping as viewed from public
rights-of-way.

(b)	All ground level refuse storage and mechanical eguipment should be screened from view
from the public right-of-way by walls, fences, buildings, landscaping or combinations thereof to a
height of six (6) feet.

(c)	All on-site open space or setback areas should include areas of landscaping or architectural
enhancement.

(d)	Mechanical eguipment or appurtenances on the roof should be architecturally screened,
enclosed, or painted to blend with the roof surface.

N SD SDO-043

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

§1521.0403 Sign Regulations

(a)	Objectives. Signs within the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Planned District
should be consistent with the following objectives:

(1)	All sip ns should be appropriately related in size, shape, materials, letters, colors, and
illumination, to be complementary to, and in scale with, the buildings on which they
are placed. The design of the signs should reflect and complement the use of the
building to the extent possible; and

(2)	Signs should be designed and placed to be compatible with the theme, visual quality,
and overall character of the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Planned
District

(b)	Applicability

(1)	Notwithstanding any provision of the San Diego Municipal Code or any other law of
the City to the contrary, solely the regulations in this Section shall apply to signs on
the premises in the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Planned District.

(c)	Comprehensive Sign Plan Process for Signs in the Convention Center Expansion and
Stadium Planned District

(1) Application and Review

(A)	An application for a Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Development
Permit for a comprehensive sign plan shall be made to the City Manager or his
/her designee in accordance with the requirements of this Article and shall be
decided in accordance with the process described in Section 1521.0202, except
that the application for a comprehensive sign plan, which may be submitted and
reviewed in phases at the applicants request, shall be subject to a single- stage
advisory design review. An application for a Convention Center Expansion and
Stadium Development Permit for a comprehensive sign plan may be submitted
before, concurrently with, or following an application for a Convention Center
Expansion and Stadium Development Permit for the Convention Center
Expansion and Stadium.

(B)	Sipn design review. The comprehensive sipn plan, which may be submitted and
reviewed in phases, shall be subject to a single-stage advisory design review by
the City Manager or his/her designee (which for purposes of advisory desipn
review may include, without limitation, Civic San Diego). The advisory design
review process shall consist of the submission of design development drawings
for the sipns.

(C)	Decision. The City Manager or his/her designee shall issue the decision
within forty-five (45) days of the completion of advisory design review on
the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Development Permit tor the
comprehensive sign plan. A Convention Center Expansion and Stadium
Development Permit shall be granted if the City Manager or his/her designee
determines that the proposed comprehensive sipn plan, as submitted or
modified, whether in total or in phases, is consistent with this Section.

(d)	Sipn Permits

(1)	When a Sion Permit is Required. After obtaining a Convention Center Expansion
and Stadium Development Permit for the comprehensive sipn plan, an applicant
shall obtain a sign permit pursuant to the following requirements for the installation
or alteration of any sipn, except for those signs specifically exempted in Section
1521.0403(d)(2) below.

(2)	Exemptions from a Sion Permit. A sign permit is not required for the following signs
or activities:

N SD SDO-044

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

(A)	Changing the copy of a sign or maintenance of a sign that does not involve
structural or electrical changes;

(B)	Interior signs:

(C)	Public utility and safety signs that are required by law;

(D)	Sipns that are required by law, other than public utility and safety signs that do
not exceed the minimum dimensions specified by law;

(E)	Real estate sipns that are not illuminated;

(F)	Construction site s/<7/7s that are not illuminated;

(G)	Nameplate identification signs and combination name plates and address signs
with letters that do not exceed three (3) inches in height, are not illuminated,
and do not exceed four (4) square feet in area;

(H)	Accessory warning signs that provide warnings such as "no parking,11 "watch
dogs," and "security service" that are not illuminated, do not exceed twelve (12)
square feet in area, and do not project over a public right-of-way,

(I)	Window signs',

(J)	Tablets, memorials, and cornerstones that are built into the walls of a building,
and provide information such as the name of the building and the date of
construction;

(K)	Bulletin boards for charitable or religious organizations provided that the sipns
do not exceed sixteen (16) square feet in area, do not project over a public
right-of-way, and are not illuminated; and

(L)	Temporary on-site banners, streamers, and pennants.

(3)	General Rules for Sign Permits

(A)	A separate sign permit is required for each sign on the premises unless the
City Manager or his/her designee determines a single sign permit my be
appropriate for more than one sign.

(B)	A sign permit m\\ include authorization for any electrical work within the sign. If
a structural or electrical engineering analysis is required for a structure because
of the proposed sign, the analysis must be approved by the Building Official.

(C)	If the installation of a sign requires modification of a structure, a building permit
may also be required.

(4)	Decision Process for Sign Permits. A decision on a sign jPgrm/f application shall
be made to the City Manager or his/her designee in accordance with Process
One. The sign permit shall be approved if the decision maker determines that the
work described in the permit application, specifications, and any other submitted
data complies with the signage requirements of this Section and any applicable
construction regulations.

(5)	Timeliness of Decision. A decision by the City Manager or his/her designee to approve
or deny a sign permit shall be made no more than forty-five (45) business days after
the date of submittal of the application and shall not be unduly delayed following
approval of a Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Development Permit for

the comprehensive sign plan. When a decision is not made within the required time,
and the applicant does not waive time, the application shall be deemed denied. The
timeliness requirement may be waived by the applicant.

(6)	Issuance of a Sign Permit

PR-09L0-044

N SD SDO-045

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

(A)	The sign permit may be issued after all approvals have been obtained. The
applicant shall pay all generally applicable City standard fees for a sign permit.

(B)	A sign permit shall not be issued for any sign that requires a Convention
Center Expansion and Stadium Development Permit until the Convention
Center Expansion and Stadium Development Permit has been issued for the
comprehensive sign plan.

(e)	Definitions

Advertising display sipn means a sipn where the sipn copy (\oes not pertain to the use
of the property, a product sold, or the sale or lease of the property on which the sipn is
displayed and which does not identify the place of business as purveyor of the merchandise
or services advertised on the sipn. Such signs include vehicle-mounted signs and
billboards.

Aerial view sipn means a sipn that is applied on a roof or placed horizontally approximately
parallel with the plane of the playing field intended to be viewed from above.

Architectural digital display sipn means a S/V7/7 which is integrated with, or otherwise
integrated into, any architectural component of a structure which is controlled by electronic
process in such a manner that different copy changes are instantaneously displayed on
the sipn. Architectural digital display signs may display still images, scrolling images,
or moving images including video and animation, utilizing a series or grid of lights and/
or projection onto the surface of the structure that may be changed by electronic means,
including cathode ray, light emitting diode display (LED), plasma screen, liguid crystal
display (LCD), fiber optics, projection, or other electronic media or technology now
existing or later developed. Architectural digital display signs may contain individual
pixels of a digital image, or other electronic media or technology now existing or later
developed, that are embedded into the architectural components of the structure separated
vertically or horizontally from one another, and may allow outward views from and within
the supporting structure. Such a design may include digital mesh or netting, individual
large scale illuminated pixels or other electronic media or technology now existing or
later developed covering a building wall diffused behind translucent material forming
an aggregate image, or horizontal or vertical banding integrated into the structure's
architecture, which when viewed from a distance may be read as a unified image.

Banner means a printed or electronic banner, pennant, streamer, or other similar display.

Convention Center Expansion naming identification sipn means a sipn attached to the
Convention Center Expansion or any component of a structure within the Convention
Center Expansion and Stadium Planned District identifying an entity or entities for which
the Convention Center Expansion or portions thereof is named, including but not limited to,
entries, exhibit halls, plazas, and concession areas.

Electronic message center sipn means a sipn which is controlled by electronic process
in such a manner that different copy changes are instantaneously displayed on the sipn.

An electronic message center sipn may display still images, scrolling images, or moving
images including video and animation, utilizing a series or grid of lights that may be
changed by electronic means, including cathode ray, light emitting diode display (LED),
plasma screen, liguid crystal display (LCD), fiber optics, or other electronic media or
technology now existing or later developed. An electronic message center sipn may
include advertising display signs, information signs, Convention Center Expansion naming
identification signs, and Stadium naming identification signs.

Exempt signs shall mean the following signs within the Convention Center Expansion and
Stadium Planned District:

• Aerial view signs',

PR-09L0-045

N SD SDO-046

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

•	Construction site signs;

•	Information signs;

•	Internal signs;

•	Signs of twenty-five (25) square feet or less on kiosks, pushcarts or tents;

•	Signs required by law;

•	Signs on temporary or mobile broadcast facilities;

•	Temporary signs', and

•	Window signs.

Ground sign means any sign supported wholly by uprights, braces, or poles in or on the
ground including poster panels, painted bulletins, signs on fences, and signs on structures
other than buildings and canopies.

Information sign means traffic, directional, wav finding, warning or other informational
signs.

Internal sign means a sign within or outside of the Convention Center Expansion and
Stadium building, structure, tent, pavilion, or other permanent or temporary structure,
intended to be primarily viewed from within the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium
Planned District Internal signs shall include, but are not limited to:

•	Signs inside the Stadium viewed from seating areas and on concourse areas
including general, club and suite seating and concourses, and food and
beverage establishments within the Stadium.

•	Signs inside of the Convention Center Expansion.

•	All scoreboards and signs that are integral with such scoreboards directed
toward the interior of the structure: the "back" of the scoreboards primarily
visible from outside of the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium shall not
be internal signs.

Internally illuminated sign means a sign that has the light source enclosed within it so the
source is not visible to the eye.

Projecting sign means a sign other than any type of wall sign that is attached to and
extends from the face of a structure.

Roof sign means a sign erected upon, against, or directly above a roof or roof eave, atop or
above the parapet, or on an architectural adjunct above the roof or roof eave.

Sign means any identification, description, illustration, or device, illuminated or non-
illuminated, that is visible from the public right-of-way or is located on private property
and exposed to the public and which directs attention to a product, place, activity, person,
institution, business, or solicitation, including any permanently installed or situated
merchandise with the exception of window displays, and any emblem, painting, banner,
pennant, placard, or temporary sign designed to advertise, identify, or convey information.

Sign copy means the words, symbols, or emblems on a S/V7/7 surface, whether in
permanent or removable form.

Sign copy area means the area of the smallest geometric figure that can enclose the words,
symbols, or emblems of a wall sign. For internally illuminated signs, the entire illuminated
sign face is the sign copy area.

Sign face means the entire area of a sign on which sign copy could be placed for roof
signs, ground signs, projecting signs, and advertising display signs.

Sign permit means a permit to install or alter any sign pursuant to this Article.

PR-09L0-046

N SD SDO-047

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

Stadium naming identification sign means a sign attached to the Stadium or any
component of a structure within the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Planned
D/sfr/gf identifying an entity or entities for which the Stadium or portions thereof is named,
including but not limited to, stadium gates, levels, plazas, and concession areas.

Temporary sign means a sign that is not permanently affixed to the ground or a building
and is used for special events or temporary uses.

Wall sign means a sign attached to, or a sign copy area on, a structure or adjunct of a
structure, including an eguipment screen or dormer that completely screens the mechanical
eguipment of the structure, and has its exposed sign face parallel or approximately parallel
to the plane of the structure to which the sign is attached.

(f)	General Sign Regulations

(1)	Exempt signs on the premises shall be permitted and exempt from the provisions
of this Section. Notwithstanding the foregoing, exempt signs shall obtain a sign
permit pursuant to Section 1521.0403(d), unless also exempted from the sign permit
reguirement per Section 1521.0403(d)(2), and shall be subject to the structural
regulations in Section 1521.0403(k) and sign maintenance regulations in Section
1521.0403(1).

(2)	All non-exempt signs and sign structures shall be permitted in conformance with a
comprehensive sign plan approved pursuant to a Convention Center Expansion and
Stadium Development Perm/Yapproved pursuant to the procedures as provided in
this Section.

(3)	The sign copy area of individual signs shall not be limited. The total sign copy area
allowed within the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Planned District shall
not exceed sixty-five thousand (65,000) sguare feet, excluding all architectural digital
display signs, Convention Center Expansion naming identification signs, electronic
message center signs, exempt signs, and Stadium naming identification signs.

(4)	Wall signs affixed on a building or structure shall not project more than twenty-five
(25) feet above the height of the building wall or roof eave.

(5)	Free-standing signs, excluding banner signs, Convention Center Expansion
naming identification signs, electronic message center signs, and Stadium naming
identification signs shall not exceed twenty-five (25) feet in height above adjacent
finished grade.

(6)	Signs may be incorporated into guest and vehicle entry gates and parking payment
structures for parking areas.

(g)	Electronic message center signs

Electronic message center signs are permitted subject to the following regulations:

(1)	General criteria

(A)	Two (2) two-sided electronic message center signs may be constructed within
the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Planned District subject to the
reguirements of this Section.

(B)	The criteria for electronic message center signs shall not apply to architectural
digital display signs, Convention Center Expansion naming identification signs,
or Stadium naming identification signs which are regulated separately as set
forth below.

(2)	Design standards

(A) The two (2) electronic message center signs shall be separated by at least four
hundred (400) feet from one another.

PR-09L0-047

N SD SDO-048

(B) The electronic message center signs shall not exceed a height of one hundred
twenty-five (125) feet above adjacent finished grade and a width of sixty (60)
feet.

(3)	Brightness, refresh rate, and beam spread:

(A)	The brightness of electronic message center signs shall not exceed eight
hundred (800) candelas/meter sq. from sunset to sunrise. Beginning thirty (30)
minutes prior to sunset and concluding thirty (30) minutes after sunset the
electronic message center signs shall transition smoothly at a consistent rate
to the permitted eight hundred (800) candelas/meter sq. level. Beginning thirty
(30) minutes prior to sunrise and concluding thirty (30) minutes after sunrise,
the electronic message center signs shall transition smoothly at a consistent
rate to the daytime brightness level. The electronic message center signs shall
be turned off from 2:00 a.m. to 6:00 a.m.

(B)	Electronic message center sipns shall refresh no more frequently than once
every four (4) seconds, with an interval between messages of not less than one
(1) second, and with an unchanged illumination level.

(C)	Maximum vertical viewing angle performance shall be +15/-50 degrees of
center of the LED. Shades / louvers should be designed to maximize the
downward (negative) viewing angle while limiting the upward (positive) viewing
angle.

(h)	Architectural digital display sipns

Architectural digital display signs are permitted subject to the following regulations:

(1)	General criteria

(A) Architectural dipital display sipns shall be attached directly to and made

integral with the architectural components of the integrated Convention Center
Expansion and Stadium.

(2)	Design standards

(A) No limitation on the individual sign copy area or sign dimensions shall apply
for an architectural digital display sign and the individual sign copy area for an
architectural digital display sign expressly shall not be counted toward the total
sign copy area allowed by the general provisions of this Section.

(i)	Advertising display signs

Advertising display signs are permitted subject to the following regulations:

(1)	Advertising display signs may be ground signs, wall signs, projecting signs,
electronic message center signs, and banners.

(2)	Free-standing advertising display signs shall not be permitted except as part of the
electronic message center signs permitted by this Section.

(3)	Advertising display signs shall count toward the total sign copy area allowed by the
general provisions of this Section, except the sign copy area of advertising display
signs that are also part of an electronic message center sign shall not count toward
the total sign copy area allowed by the general provisions of this Section.

(j)	Banner signs and similar displays

Banner signs are permitted subject to the following regulations:

(1) Banner signs sha\\ maintain at least eight (8) feet clearance above adjacent finished
grade and shall not create hazards.

PR-09L0-048

N SD SDO-049

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

(2)	Banner sipns shall be constructed of high quality materials and secured to poles or
structures so as to withstand strong winds.

(k)	Structural Regulations

(1)	Signs and s/fl/7-supporting structures shall be listed by a recognized testing
laboratory and constructed in compliance with the requirements of the Uniform
Building Code and National Electrical Code as adopted by the City of San Diego.
Exposed-tube neon s/g/7s shall be constructed and installed in compliance with the
National Electrical Code as adopted by the City of San Diego.

(2)	Guv wires or angle iron structures that are used as sign supports shall not be visible
from public right-of-way. Sipn supports shall appear to be an integral part of the sipn.

(3)	The supports for all sipns or sign structures shall be placed entirely within the
boundaries of the premises on which the sipn is located.

(l)	Sign Maintenance Regulations

All sipns shall comply with the following maintenance regulations whether or not a sipn
permit is reguired.

(1)	All sipns and sipn supports, including decorative covers, shall be maintained in a
clean and safe condition.

(2)	Sipns shall be maintained in a graffiti-free condition.

(3)	The owner shall keep the display area of all painted sipns neatly printed or posted at
all times and shall correct any painting, fading, chipping, peeling, or flaking paint or
plastic and mechanical or structural defect.

(4)	Paint or debris associated with sipns shall not litter public property or public right-of-
way.

§1521.0404 Separately Regulated Uses

(a)	On-Site Alcohol Beverage Sales

Notwithstanding any other provision of the San Diego Municipal Code or any other law of
the City to the contrary, the sale of alcoholic beverages for on-site consumption within the
Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Planned District shall solely be subject to the
following regulations and applicable state regulations:

(1)	The integrated Convention Center Expansion and Stadium may provide alcoholic
beverages on the premises by right subject to the regulations in this Section.

(2)	Bona-fide eatinp establishments that offer made-to-order food during business hours
may provide alcoholic beverages on the premises by right.

(3)	Non bona-fide eatinp establishments, bars, eatinp and drinkinp establishments,
outdoor activities, promotional and hospitality tents, pavilions and exhibits, and other
similar accessory uses to the integrated Convention Center Expansion and Stadium
may provide alcoholic beverages on the premises by right.

(b)	Live entertainment

Notwithstanding any other provision of the San Diego Municipal Code or any other law
of the City to the contrary, live entertainment and events within the Convention Center
Expansion and Stadium Planned District shall not be subject to any special event or police
license reguirements and shall be subject to the following regulations:

(1)	The Convention Center Expansion and Stadium and accessory uses including eatinp
and drinkinp establishments may provide live entertainment by right.

(2)	Consistent with Section 1521.0304(a)(7) of this Article, sound and amplification
eguipment associated with live entertainment shall be regulated solely by this

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

Article and the environmental design features in Appendix 15A to Chapter 15 of the
Downtown Community Plan, notwithstanding any other provision of the San Diego
Municipal Code or any other law of the City to the contrary.

(c)	Designated historical resource

Notwithstanding any other provision of the San Diego Municipal Code or any other law of
the City to the contrary, if the development of a Convention Center Expansion and Stadium
reguires the alteration or relocation of a designated historical resource, the Convention
Center Expansion and Stadium Development Permit tor the development shall provide the
authorization and permit for such alteration or relocation. No additional review or permit
shall be reguired.

C.	Section 59.5.0401 of Division 4 of Article 9.5 of Chapter 5 of the San Diego Municipal Code is
amended to read:

§59.5.0401 Sound Level Limits

(a)	It shall be unlawful for any person to cause noise by any means to the extent that the
one-hour average sound level exceeds the applicable limit given in the following table, at
any location in the City of San Diego on or beyond the boundaries of the property on which
the noise is produced. The noise subject to these limits is that part of the total noise at the
specified location that is due solely to the action of said person.

TABLE OF APPLICABLE LIMITS

Land Use		Time of Day	One-Hour Average Sound Level (decibels)
1.	Single Family Residential	7 a.m. to 7 p.m.	50
		7 p.m. to 10 p.m.	45
		10 p.m. to 7 a.m.	40
2.	Multi-Family Residential (Up to a	7 a.m. to 7 p.m.	55
	maximum density of 1/2000)	7 p.m. to 10 p.m.	50
		10 p.m. to 7 a.m.	45
3.	All other Residential	7 a.m. to 7 p.m.	60
		7 p.m. to 10 p.m.	55
		10 p.m. to 7 a.m.	50
4.	Commercial	7 a.m. to 7 p.m.	65
		7 p.m. to 10 p.m.	60
		10 p.m. to 7 a.m.	60
5.	Industrial or Agricultural	any time	75

(b)	The sound level limit at a location on a boundary between two zoning districts is the
arithmetic mean of the respective limits for the two districts. Permissible construction
noise level limits shall be governed by Sections 59.5.0404 of this article.

(c)	Fixed-location public utility distribution or transmission facilities located on or adjacent to
a property line shall be subject to the noise level limits of Part A. of this section, measured
at or beyond six feet from the boundary of the easement upon which the equipment is
located.

N SD SDO-051

(d)	BALLOT MEASURE (continued)  This section does not apply to firework displays authorized by permit from the Fire Department.
(e)	This section does not apply to noise generated by helicopters at heliports or helistops authorized by a conditional use permit, nor to any roller coaster operated on City-owned parkland.
	This section does not apply to noise generated by uses within the Convention Center

Expansion and Stadium Planned District.

D.	Section 59.5.0404 of Division 4 of Article 9.5 of Chapter 5 of the San Diego Municipal Code is
amended to read:

§59.5.0404 Construction Noise

(a)	It shall be unlawful for any person, between the hours of 7:00 p.m. of any day and 7:00
(b)	a.m. of the following day, or on legal holidays as specified in Section 21.04 of the San Diego Municipal Code, with exception of Columbus Day and Washington's Birthday, or on Sundays, to erect, construct, demolish, excavate for, alter or repair any building or structure in such a manner as to create disturbing, excessive or offensive noise unless a permit has been applied for and granted beforehand by the Noise Abatement and Control Administrator. In granting such permit, the Administrator shall consider whether the construction noise in the vicinity of the proposed work site would be less objectionable at night than during the daytime because of different population densities or different neighboring activities; whether obstruction and interference with traffic particularly on streets of major importance, would be less objectionable at night than during the daytime; whether the type of work to be performed emits noises at such a low level as to not cause significant disturbances in the vicinity of the work site; the character and nature of the neighborhood of the proposed work site; whether great economic hardship would occur if the work were spread over a longer time; whether proposed night work is in the general public interest; and he shall prescribe such conditions, working times, types of construction equipment to be used, and permissible noise levels as he deems to be required in the public interest.  Except as provided in subsection C. hereof, it shall be unlawful for any person, including The City of San Diego, to conduct any construction activity so as to cause, at or beyond the property lines of any property zoned residential, an average sound level greater than 75 decibels during the 12-hour period from 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m.
(c)	The provisions of subsection B. of this section shall not apply to construction equipment used in connection with emergency work, provided the Administrator is notified within 48 hours after commencement of work.
(d)	This section does not apply to construction activity within the Convention Center Expansion

and Stadium Planned District.

E.	Section 35.0101 of Division 1 of Article 5 of Chapter 3 of the San Diego Municipal Code is amended to
read:

§35.0101  (a)	Purpose and Intent  It is the purpose and intent of the Citv Council and the voters that there shall be imposed a tax on Transients.
(b)	Except as provided in subdivision (c), Tthe proceeds of the tax shall be used for promoting the City of San Diego, including the planning, construction, maintenance and operation of tourist- related cultural, recreational and convention facilities, as more particularly set forth in Chapter 3, Article 5, Division 1, and for those additional general governmental purposes as more particularly set forth in Chapter 3, Article 5, Division 1, as the City Council may from time to time provide in accordance with the Charter of the City and the City Council's appropriation ordinance.

N SD SDO-052

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

(c) Certain proceeds of the tax, as specifically provided for herein, shall be dedicated for the
financing, planning, construction, maintenance and operation of an integrated convention
center expansion and stadium to further enhance the City's position as one of the premier
tourist, convention, sports and entertainment regions in the country.

F.	Section 35.0102 of Division 1 of Article 5 of Chapter 3 of the San Diego Municipal Code is amended to
read:

§35.0102 Definitions

The following definitions are applicable to Chapter 3, Article 5, Division 1:

"Bonds" means debt instruments, revenue bonds (including without limitation transient
occupancy tax revenue bonds), notes, debentures, or other similar financial instruments authorized to be
issued by the City and payable from Funds as provided in this Division.

"Campground" means any park or real property where a Person may locate a tent, trailer, tent trailer,
pick-up, camper, or other similar temporary structure for the purposes of lodging, dwelling, or sleeping,
whether or not water, electricity, or sanitary facilities are provided.

"Collected" means the time at which the Rent is earned if an Operator uses the accrual basis of
accounting, or the time at which Rent is received if an Operator uses the cash basis of accounting.

"Convention Center Expansion" means a convention center exhibition facility containing approximately
three hundred and eighty-five thousand (385,000) net sguare feet of exhibition hall, ballroom and meeting
room space, into which the Stadium will be integrated, which convention center facility may also include
offices, restaurants, cafes, kitchen facilities, storage areas, parking, and other ancillary uses customarily part
of a convention center facility, to be located on the Convention Center Expansion Site, and after completion
of the Convention Center Expansion any other convention center projects or related facilities subseguently
approved by the City.

"Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Fund" means that certain special trust fund established in
the City Treasury pursuant to Section 35.0140.

"Convention Center Expansion Construction Costs" means the costs of developing and constructing a
Convention Center Expansion, designed and sized to accommodate the integration of the Stadium, including
without limitation excavation, foundation and structural systems, facade and architectural elements,
mechanical, electrical and plumbing systems, heating, ventilation and air conditioning, elevators and
escalators, interior improvements, furniture, fixtures and equipment, permit fees and costs, architectural and
engineering costs, environmental compliance costs, insurance costs, construction and project management
costs, legal, finance and consultant costs, a reasonable and customary contingency, and other costs
customarily involved in the development and construction of facilities of similar size, scope and complexity.

"Convention Center Expansion Infrastructure Costs" means all costs for infrastructure, public works,
utilities, and similar facilities or structures customarily associated with the construction of facilities of similar
size, scope and complexity to a Convention Center Expansion, designed and sized to accommodate the
integration of the Stadium, including without limitation road and highway improvements, electrical, water,
sewer, storm drain, gas, cable, internet, and other utilities, and environmental design features to reduce
impacts. "Convention Center Expansion Infrastructure Costs" shall include the related acquisition costs for
real property associated with infrastructure, public works, utilities, and similar facilities or structures, legal,
finance and consultant costs, permit fees and costs, architectural and engineering costs, insurance costs,
construction and project management costs, title insurance costs, property remediation costs, a reasonable
and customary contingency, and other costs customarily involved in the construction and development of
such infrastructure, utilities, public works, and similar facilities or structures.

"Convention Center Expansion Land Costs" means all costs associated with acquiring all real property
interests of the Convention Center Expansion Site including without limitation real property acquisition
costs, legal, finance and consultant costs, title insurance, property remediation costs, relocation costs for
existing uses on the Site, a reasonable and customary contingency, and other costs customarily involved in
the acquisition of real property.

N SD SDO-053

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

"Convention Center Expansion Site" means that certain site bounded by K Street on the North, 16^
Street on the East, Imperial Avenue on the South and 12^ Avenue on the West.

"Convention Center Expansion/Stadium Integration Allocation" shall be a single one-time three
hundred fifty million ($350,000,000) monetary contribution to the development and construction of the
Stadium from the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Fund, to enable the development of a joint use
facility whereby the Stadium may be used for various convention events, civic events, sporting events and
entertainment events (including professional football) to promote tourism in San Diego, (e.g., among other
integrated and joint use features, building the Stadium floor with loading capacity sufficient to accommodate
convention center uses, adding dual use food service facilities including multi-use restaurants and club
areas, suites, other joint use areas, incorporating conference space, meeting rooms and other facilities,
utilities and building systems to be utilized jointly). The Convention Center/Stadium Integration Allocation
shall be adjusted annually (or portion thereof) by a construction cost index (e.g., Engineer News Record)
with the first adjustment to be made on January 1,2018 (for the proceeding annual period) and subseguent
adjustments to be made ending on the commencement of construction of the Convention Center Expansion
and Stadium.

"CPI" means the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers for San Diego, or similar index if the
Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers for San Diego is not published any longer.

"Financing Agreements" means lease agreements, installment sale agreements, irrevocable
assignments or other similar financing agreements or contracts entered into by the City and payable from
Funds as provided in this Article.

"Financing Costs" means those costs incurred in the issuance of Bonds or the execution and delivery
of Financing Agreements utilizing available Funds from the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Fund
used to finance first any Convention Center Expansion Construction Costs, Convention Center Expansion
Infrastructure Costs, Convention Center Expansion Land Costs and the Convention Center Expansion/
Stadium Integration Allocation, and, after completion of a Convention Center Expansion and Stadium,
Financing Costs incurred in the issuance of Bonds or the execution and delivery of Financing Agreements
for the construction, expansion, maintenance or capital repair of any existing or future convention center
facilities located in the City. Financing Costs shall include without limitation, principal repayment, interest
costs, legal, finance and consultant costs, costs of issuance, reguired debt service reserve funds, or reserve
fund insurance policy, bond insurance, credit enhancement, pre-construction reserves, contingencies,
working capital reserves and/or reserves to manage fluctuations in funds deposited in the Convention Center
Expansion and Stadium Fund.

"Funds" means the proceeds of the tax imposed pursuant to Section 35.0109 hereof and deposited in
the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Fund.

"Governmental Entity" means the governmental entity that will own, finance, develop, construct and
operate, or assist the City in financing, developing, constructing and operating, an integrated Convention
Center Expansion and Stadium. The Governmental Entity may be a new joint powers authority entered into
by the City pursuant to the Joint Exercise of Powers Act, California Government Code section 6500 et seg.,
or may be an existing joint powers authority to which the City is a member, any other public entity or not-for
profit corporation formed by the City.

"Hotel" means any structure or any portion of any structure which is occupied, or intended or designed
for Occupancy, by Transients for dwelling, lodging, or sleeping purposes, and is held out as such to the
public. "Hotel" does not mean any hospital, convalescent home, or sanitarium.

"Occupancy" means the use or possession, or the right to the use or possession, of any room, or
portion thereof, in any Hotel, or space in a Recreational Vehicle Park, or Campground for dwelling, lodging,
or sleeping purposes.

"Operator" means the Person who is the proprietor of the Hotel, Recreational Vehicle Park, or
Campground, whether in the capacity of owner, lessee, sublessee, mortgagee in possession, licensee, or any
other capacity. "Operator" includes a managing agent, a resident manager, or a resident agent, of any type or
character, other than an employee without management responsibility.

N SD SDO-054

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

"Primary Lessee" means a professional football entity that enters into a lease of the Stadium for a term
of not less than thirty (30) years and provides, arranges and/or coordinates the Private Sector Stadium
Contribution.

"Private Sector Stadium Contribution" means six hundred fifty million dollars ($650,000,000) from
non-governmental sources for Stadium Construction Costs and Stadium Infrastructure Costs. The six
hundred fifty million dollars ($650,000,000) from non-governmental sources for Stadium Construction
Costs and Stadium Infrastructure Costs shall be adjusted annually (or portion thereof) by a construction
cost index (e.g., Engineer News Record) with the first adjustment to be made on January 1, 2018 (for
the proceeding annual period) and subseguent adjustments to be made ending on the commencement of
construction of the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium. The form of the contribution from the non-
governmental sources may be cash or cash eguivalents, pre-development expenses incurred for the Stadium
by the Primary Lessee, proceeds from sale of personal seat licenses/stadium builders licenses, or other
rights granting the holder of the license the right to purchase tickets to events to be held at the Stadium,
lease revenues (including without limitation pre-paid rent), contractually committed revenues associated
with the use and operation of the Stadium including committed revenues from sponsors, suite licensees
and concessionaires, committed construction loans, or other committed funding sources, whether such
funding is provided directly from the non-governmental sources or through the Governmental Entity or other
governmental agency participating in the financing or construction of the Stadium.

"Recreational Vehicle" means any passenger vehicle, house car, trailer coach, camper, or camper trailer,
as defined in California Vehicle Code sections 242, 243, 362, 465, 635, or California Health and Safety Code
section 18010.

"Recreational Vehicle Park" means any park or location where a Recreational Vehicle may be parked for
the purposes of lodging, dwelling, or sleeping, whether or not water, electricity, or sanitary hookup facilities
are provided. A "Recreational Vehicle Park" may include a Campground.

"Rent" means the total consideration charged to a Transient as shown on the guest receipt for
the Occupancy of a room, or portion thereof, in a Hotel, or a space in a Recreational Vehicle Park or
Campground. "Rent" includes charges for utility and sewer hookups, equipment, (such as rollaway beds,
cribs and television sets, and similar items), and in-room services (such as movies and other services not
subject to California taxes), valued in money, whether received or to be received in money, goods, labor, or
otherwise. "Rent" includes all receipts, cash, credits, property, and services of any kind or nature without any
deduction therefrom.

"Stadium" means a first class professional football stadium on the Convention Center Expansion Site
with a permanent seating capacity of up to approximately sixty-five thousand (65,000) seats, including
club seats, loge seats, suite seating and other premium seats, with an expansion seating capacity of up
to approximately seventy-five thousand (75,000) seats for larger events, including Super Bowls, and
other ancillary uses, including without limitation, concession areas, restaurants, bars, clubs, retail stores,
kiosks, media facilities, athletic training and medical facilities, locker rooms, offices, meeting rooms,
banquet facilities, ticketing facilities, on-site and off-site signage, scoreboards, and other ancillary facilities
customarily part of a stadium of a quality necessary to host professional football, professional soccer,
Olympic, collegiate, and civic events, and conventions, exhibitions and concerts.

"Stadium Construction Costs" means the incremental costs of developing and constructing a Stadium,
designed to be integrated into a Convention Center Expansion, including without limitation the incremental
costs attributed to the Stadium of excavation, foundation and structural systems, facade and architectural
elements, mechanical, electrical and plumbing systems, heating, ventilation and air conditioning, elevators
and escalators, interior improvements, furniture, fixtures and equipment, seats, architectural and engineering
costs, permit fees and costs, environmental compliance costs, insurance costs, construction and project
management costs, legal, finance and consultant costs, a reasonable and customary contingency, and
other costs customarily involved in the development and construction of facilities of similar size, scope and
complexity. "Stadium Construction Costs" shall only include the incremental costs directly attributable to the
development and construction of the Stadium over and above the costs of developing and constructing the
Convention Center Expansion. For the purpose of determining "incremental costs," allocations of costs shall

PR-09L0-054

N SD SDO-055

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

be based on incremental development and construction costs directly attributable to the Stadium. "Stadium
Construction Costs" shall not include any Convention Center Expansion Land Costs or Convention Center
Expansion Construction Costs.

"Stadium Infrastructure Costs" means all incremental costs for infrastructure, public works, utilities,
and similar facilities or structures customarily associated with the construction of facilities of similar size,
scope and complexity to a Stadium, including without limitation road and highway improvements, supplying
electrical, water, sewer storm drain, gas, cable, internet and other utilities, and environmental measures to
reduce impacts. "Stadium Infrastructure Costs" also includes the related acquisition costs for real property
associated with infrastructure, public works, utilities, and similar facilities or structures, legal, finance and
consultant costs, architectural and engineering costs, permittees and costs, insurance costs, construction
and project management costs, title insurance costs, property remediation costs, a reasonable and
customary contingency, and other costs customarily involved in the construction and development of such
infrastructure, utilities, public works, and similar facilities or structures. "Stadium Infrastructure Costs" shall
only include the incremental costs directly attributable to the construction of the Stadium Infrastructure over
and above the costs of developing and constructing the Convention Center Expansion Infrastructure. For the
purpose of determining "incremental costs" allocations of costs shall be based on incremental development
and construction costs directly attributable to the Stadium Infrastructure. Stadium Infrastructure Costs shall
not include any Convention Center Expansion Land Costs or Convention Center Expansion Infrastructure
Costs.

"Successor to Operator" means any person who acquires the right to operate a hotel, recreational
vehicle park, or campground from a predecessor Operator, directly or indirectly, by whatever means,
including purchase, foreclosure,operation of lease, or other means. A transfer of an ownership or
management interest in a hotel, recreational vehicle park, or campground wherein the facility continues to
operate as such, either continuously or for business interruption not exceeding thirty days, shall constitute a
succession for purposes of this division.

"Transient" means any Person who exercises Occupancy, or is entitled to Occupancy, by reason of
concession, permit, right of access, license, or other agreement for a period of less than one (1) month. A
month is defined as the period of consecutive days from the first calendar day of Occupancy in any month
to the same calendar day in the next month following, or the last day of the next month following if no
corresponding calendar day exists.

G.	Section 35.0109 is added to Division 1 of Article 5 of Chapter 3 of the San Diego Municipal Code, to

read:

§35.0109 Additional Tax Imposed

(a)	Notwithstanding the tax imposed by any other Section of this Division and in addition thereto,
for the privilege of Occupancy in any Hotel, any Recreational Vehicle Park, or any Campground, each
Transient is subject to and shall pay an additional tax in the amount of six percent (6%) of the Rent charged
by the Operator commencing January 1, 2017. Five-sixths (5/6) of all of the revenues collected by the City
pursuant to this subsection (a) shall be deposited in the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Fund
created pursuant to Section 35.0140 and one-sixth (1/6) of all revenues collected by the City pursuant to this
subsection (a) shall be deposited in the San Diego Tourism and Marketing Fund created pursuant to Section
35.0141.

(b)	On the earlier of (i) fifty (50) years, (ii) the full repayment of any Bonds or Financing Agreements
and associated Financing Costs, or (iii) the termination of a professional football team playing its home
games in Qualcomm Stadium for a period of more than two consecutive calendar years (other than as a
result of force majeure related to the use of Qualcomm Stadium) before the completion of the Stadium, the
additional tax imposed by subsection (a) above shall be reduced to three percent (3%) of the Rent charged
by Operators. Two-thirds (2/3) of all revenues collected by the City pursuant to this subsection (b) shall be
deposited in the San Diego Tourism and Marketing Fund created pursuant to Section 35.0141 and one-third
(1/3) of all of the revenues collected by the City pursuant to this subsection (b) shall be deposited in the
Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Fund created pursuant to Section 35.0140.

PR-09L0-055

N SD SDO-056

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

(c)	In the event that the requirements set forth in subsection 35.0140(c) are not satisfied on or
before January 1,2027, the additional tax established by subsection (a) above shall be reduced to three
percent (3 %) of the Rent charged by the Operator commencing January 1, 2027. Two-thirds (2/3) of all
revenues collected by the City pursuant to this subsection (c) shall be deposited in the San Diego Tourism
and Marketing Fund created pursuant to Section 35.0141 and one-third (1/3) of all of the revenues collected
by the City pursuant to this subsection (c) shall be deposited in the General Fund of the City.

H.	Section 35.0140 is added to Division 1 of Article 5 of Chapter 3 of the San Diego Municipal Code, to
read:

§35.0140 Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Fund

(a)	The Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Fund ("Convention Center Expansion and
Stadium Fund") is hereby created as a special trust fund in the City Treasury. Funds in the Convention Center
Expansion and Stadium Fund shall not be loaned, transferred, diverted, or appropriated, either directly or
indirectly, for any purpose inconsistent with this section.

(b)	All Funds remaining in the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Fund after payment of the
costs incurred in the administration of this section shall be available solely for Convention Center Expansion
Construction Costs, Convention Center Expansion Infrastructure Costs, Convention Center Expansion Land
Costs, Convention Center Expansion/Stadium Integration Allocation, and Financing Costs and as specifically
provided for in subsections (c) through (g) below.

(c)	The Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Fund may only be utilized for the purposes
set forth in this section and, except as provided for in subsection (e) below, upon the satisfaction of the
requirements of this subsection:

(i)	Except as specifically provided for in subsection (e) below, use of the Revenues from the
Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Fund shall be subject to the concurrent contribution of the
Private Sector Stadium Contribution.

(ii)	Except as specifically provided for in subsection (e) below, use of Funds from the Convention
Center Expansion and Stadium Fund shall be subject to the execution by a professional football team
of a covenant and agreement for the benefit of the Governmental Entity agreeing not to relocate to
another jurisdiction for a period of not less than thirty (30) years and to play substantially all of its home
professional football games in the Stadium.

(iii)	Except as specifically provided for in subsection (e) below, use of Funds from the Convention
Center Expansion and Stadium Fund shall be subject to execution of a lease for the Stadium between the
Governmental Entity and the Primary Lessee with a term of not less than thirty (30) years.

(d)	The Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Fund shall be a special revenue fund of the
City and may be used only for the purposes established by this section and for the uses established by
this section. To the extent permitted by law, Funds deposited into the Convention Center Expansion and
Stadium Fund may be pledged, used and/or assigned to make lease payments, installment payments and/
or other contractual payments with respect to Financing Agreements or to the payment of debt service on
Bonds, the proceeds of which may be used by the City for the purposes and uses set forth in this section-
in no event shall the General Fund of the City be responsible for the payment of debt service on Bonds

or payments pursuant to any Financing Agreements executed and delivered or issued by the City or the
Governmental Entity for the purposes and uses set forth in this section. In no event shall the issuance of
Bonds or Financing Agreements involve the pledge of the faith and credit of the City, but shall be limited
obligations payable solely from specified revenues, moneys and assets. The issuance of Bonds or execution
of Financing Agreements shall not directly, indirectly, or contingently obligate the City to levy or pledge any
form of taxation other than the tax imposed pursuant to Section 35.0109. The City is expressly authorized
to execute such instruments as necessary to effectuate the pledge and assignment granted pursuant to this
subsection.

(e)	Prior to the commencement of construction of the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium
and the issuance of Bonds or the execution and delivery of Financing Agreements by the City, two-
thirds (2/3) of Funds in the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Fund shall be deposited in a

N SD SDO-057

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

construction fund deposit subfund within the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Fund for use
for pre-development expenses for the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium. The construction fund
deposit subfund shall be released and transferred to the Governmental Entity to be used for the purposes
and uses set forth in subsection (b) above upon the commencement of construction of the Convention
Center Expansion and Stadium, the issuance of Bonds or the execution of Financing Agreements for the
construction of the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium. Pre-development expenses shall include
those costs incurred by the Governmental Entity in preparing for the development of the Convention Center
Expansion and Stadium including without limitation Convention Center Expansion Land Costs, architecture
and engineering costs, project management costs, consultants costs, financing costs, and legal costs. The
remaining Funds in the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Fund shall be then distributed or reserved
annually in the following order and amounts:

(i)	To the San Diego Tourism and Marketing Fund in an amount egual to one percent (1 %) of
the Rent charged by all Operators for such year;

(ii)	To an operating reserve subfund of the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Fund
in an amount egual to eight percent (8%) of the annual Funds deposited in the Convention Center
Expansion and Stadium Fund, to be held in trust as a reserve for the payment of operating and
maintenance costs for the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium in any year when there are not
sufficient funds in the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Fund to pay Financing Costs or the
amounts provided for by subsection (f)(iii) below, up to a maximum reserve of twenty-five million
dollars ($25,000,000).

(iii)	To the City General Fund for any purpose as determined by the City Council.

(f)	Following the commencement of construction of the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium
and the issuance of Bonds or the execution and delivery of Financing Agreements by the City, Funds
deposited in the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Fund shall be used first to pay directly, or
transferred to the Governmental Agency to pay, all Financing Costs, including any reguired reserves to
satisfy debt service coverage reguirements, for Bonds or Financing Agreements issued in connection with
the development and construction of the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium. In any year in which
there are Funds remaining in the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Fund after the payment of
Financing Costs, such excess Funds shall be distributed or reserved annually in the following order and
amounts:

(i)	To the San Diego Tourism and Marketing Fund in an amount egual to one percent (1 %) of the
Rent charged by all Operators for such year.

(ii)	Prior to the completion of the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium, to an operating
reserve subfund of the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Fund in an amount egual to eight
percent (8%) of the annual Funds deposited in the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Fund, to
be held in trust as a reserve for the payment of operating and maintenance costs for the Convention
Center Expansion and Stadium in any year when there are not sufficient funds in the Convention Center
Expansion and Stadium Fund to pay the Financing Costs or the amounts provided for by subsection (f)

(iii)	below, up to a maximum reserve of twenty-five million dollars ($25,000,000) (including any amounts
in the operating reserve subfund pursuant to subsection (e)(ii) above).

(iii)	Upon completion of the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium, to the Governmental Entity
in the amounts (on a pari passu basis) of (a) ten million dollars ($10,000,000), increased annually by
CPI, solely for operations and maintenance of the Convention Center Expansion, (b) two million dollars
($2,000,000), increased annually by a construction cost index (e.g., Engineering News Record), solely
for capital improvements and repairs to the Convention Center Expansion, (c) fifteen million dollars
($15,000,000), increased annually by CPI solely for operations and maintenance of the Stadium, and (d)
in the amount of two million dollars ($2,000,000), increased annually by a construction cost index (e.g.,
Engineering News Record), solely for capital improvements and repairs for the Stadium.

(iv)	To the City General Fund for any purpose as determined by the City Council.

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

If in any year there are not sufficient Funds in the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Fund
sufficient to pay Financing Costs and/or the amounts set forth in subsection (f)(i) through (iii), such
shortfall(s) shall be immediately paid out of Funds deposited in the Convention Center Expansion and
Stadium Fund in the immediately succeeding years and shall have priority in payment prior to any other
amounts otherwise required to be paid pursuant to subsection (f)(i) through (iii) in such succeeding years.

(g)	Nothing herein shall limit the right of the City to otherwise provide for the construction,
expansion, maintenance or operation of any existing or future convention facilities located in the City-
Following completion of construction of the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium, Funds remaining
in the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Fund, after payment of all Finance Costs and payment
annually of amounts as provided for in (f)(i) and (iii), may be used for the construction, expansion,
maintenance or operation of any existing or future convention facilities located in the City.

(h)	In the event that the conditions set forth in subsection (c) above are not satisfied on or before
January 1,2027, the Funds remaining in the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Fund as of January

1,2027, including any amounts in the construction fund deposit subfund and the operating reserve subfund,
shall be deposited in the General Fund of the City.

(i)	Funds permitted to be paid or distributed pursuant to this section, may be paid or distributed on
an annual, Quarterly, or monthly basis, as may be reguired by the Bonds, Financing Agreements or for the
convenience of the City or the Governmental Entity.

I.	Section 35.0141 is added to Division 1 of Article 5 of Chapter 3 of the San Diego Municipal Code, to
read:

§35.0141________San Diego Tourism and Marketing Fund

(a)	The San Diego Tourism and Marketing Fund ("Marketing Fund") is hereby created as a special
trust fund in the City Treasury. Revenues in the Marketing Fund shall not be loaned, transferred, diverted, or
appropriated, either directly or indirectly, for any purpose inconsistent with this section.

(b)	All revenues deposited in the Marketing Fund remaining after payment of the costs incurred in
the administration of this section shall be available solely for development and implementation of a tourism
and convention center marketing program for the City of San Diego and the San Diego Convention Center
and used in the manner and for the purposes specified in Division 25 of Article 1 of Chapter 6 of the San
Diego Municipal Code regarding the San Diego Tourism Marketing District.

(A copy of Division 25 of Article 1 of Chapter 6 of the San Diego Municipal Code is attached as Exhibit C
hereto.)

J.	Section 35.0142 is added to Division 1 of Article 5 of Chapter 3 of the San Diego Municipal Code, to
read:

§35.0142________Issuance of Bonds for Convention Center Expansion and Stadium

(a)	The City is authorized to issue Bonds, from time to time, payable from and secured by the Funds, the
proceeds of which will be transferred to the Governmental Entity to fund the Convention Center Expansion
Construction Costs, the Convention Center Expansion Infrastructure Costs, the Convention Center Expansion
Land Costs, the Convention Center Expansion/Stadium Integration Allocation and the Financing Costs. The
maximum bonded indebtedness pursuant to this Section, including Financing Costs, shall not exceed the
total amount of the tax levied pursuant to Section 35.0109 projected over the life of the Bonds.

(b)	All of the Bonds hereby authorized to be issued pursuant to this Section shall be limited
obligations of the City payable solely from the Funds. Bonds issued as authorized by this Section shall not be
deemed to constitute a debt or liability of the City's General Fund and shall not be secured by a pledge of the
faith and credit of the City but shall be limited obligations payable solely from specified revenues, moneys
and assets. The issuance of Bonds pursuant to this Section shall not directly, indirectly, or contingently
obligate the City to levy or pledge any form of taxation other than the tax imposed pursuant to Section
35.0109.

(c)	Bonds authorized by this Section shall be issued and shall mature at such time or times not to
exceed forty (40) years, bear interest at such fixed or variable rate or rates approved by the City but not to

N SD SDO-059

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

exceed the maximum rate permitted by law. Bonds authorized by the section shall be sold at either public or
private sale and for such prices as the City shall determine.

(d)	The City is hereby authorized to issue Bonds authorized by this Section for the purpose of
replacing or refunding any Bonds then outstanding.

(e)	The chief fiscal officer of the City shall annually prepare and file a report to the legislative body in
compliance with Government Code Section 53411.

K.	Section 61.2528 is added to Division 25 of Article 1 of Chapter 6 of the San Diego Municipal Code, to
read:

§61.2528_______No Levies for San Diego Tourism Marketing District Assessments

Notwithstanding any other ordinance or resolution adopted prior to the effective date of this Section by
the City Council pursuant to the San Diego Tourism Marketing District Procedural Ordinance (Division 25 of
Article 1 of Chapter 6 of the San Diego Municipal Code), after the earlier of the first December 31 or the first
June 30 to occur after this Section takes effect, no assessment may be levied, imposed or collected pursuant
to such an ordinance or resolution.

L.	Division 28 (commencing with Section 61.2801) is added to Article 1 of Chapter 6 of the San Diego
Municipal Code, to read:

Division 28: San Diego Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Development Procedural Ordinance
§61.2801 Purpose and Intent

The purpose and intent of this Division is to:

(a)	Provide an overall structure for the development, construction and management of a Convention
Center Expansion and Stadium.

(b)	Recognize the City Council's authorization to enter into a joint powers authority, or use of an
existing joint powers authority, or establish a City controlled entity to be the owner and developer of the
Convention Center Expansion and Stadium.

(c)	Provide a process for ensuring that the financing for the development and construction of the
Convention Center Expansion and Stadium, including without limitation the issuance of Bonds or execution
and delivery of Financing Agreements, can be undertaken in an efficient and economical manner for the
benefit of the people of San Diego.

(d)	Provide standards and procedures for the management of the Convention Center Expansion and
Stadium and leasing of the Stadium.

§61.2802	Citation of Division

This Division may be cited as the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Development Procedural
Ordinance.

§61.2803	Rules of Construction

This Division shall be liberally construed in order to effectuate its purpose. No error, irregularity,
informality and no neglect or omission of any officer, in any procedure taken under this Division which does
not directly affect the jurisdiction of the City to order the work, contract or process shall void or invalidate
such work, contract or process done thereunder.

§61.2804	Guiding Policies

The City is expressly authorized to permit the development, construction, operation, maintenance,
management, and financing (including the issuance of Bonds or the execution and delivery of Financing
Agreements) of a Convention Center Expansion and Stadium on the Convention Center Expansion Site,
provided that any and all actions and agreements by the City relating to the development, construction,
operation, maintenance, management, or financing of a Convention Center Expansion and Stadium on the
Convention Center Expansion Site shall be consistent with the following guiding legislative policies and
minimum reguirements in order to protect and serve the people of the City of San Diego and its residents by

PR-09L0-059

N SD SDO-060

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

ensuring that a Convention Center Expansion and Stadium will have a fiscal benefit to the City, including job
creation, enhanced tourism, and other economic development:

(1)	The City shall not pay for any Stadium Construction Costs or Stadium Infrastructure Costs,
or Stadium Construction Costs or Stadium Infrastructure Costs cost overruns, if any. Contribution of the
Convention Center Expansion/Stadium Integration Allocation is not part of Stadium Construction Cost.
Except as specifically provided for in Section 35.0140 and this ordinance, the City shall not pay for any
Stadium operating, maintenance or capital improvement expenses. The City shall be reimbursed for
reasonable costs incurred by the City in providing professional football event day public safety and traffic
management services related to Stadium events held by the Primary Lessee. Nothing herein shall limit
the City from providing routine governmental service for the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium
consistent with the delivery of services generally within the City.

(2)	The City Council is hereby authorized to take any and all actions, including without limitation
entering into agreements, subject to and consistent with this Section, to facilitate the development,
construction, operation, maintenance, management, and financing (including the issuance of Bonds or
the execution and delivery of Financing Agreements) of the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium,
creation of, use of, and/or participation in, a joint authority to cause the development, construction,
operation, maintenance, management, and financing of the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium.

The guiding legislative policies and minimum reguirements in this Division are the legislative policies of the
City and provide the wavs and means of accomplishing that legislative policy. Where this Division provides
for any determination or approval by the City Council, such determination or approval shall be made by the
City Council taking into account the purpose and intent of this Division, and shall be made on or before the
Council's approval of any action or agreement for the development, construction, operation, maintenance,
management, or financing of the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium on the Convention Center
Expansion Site.

§61.2806 Authorizations

(a)	The City Council is hereby authorized to take any and all actions, including without limitation
entering into agreements, subject to and consistent with this Division, to facilitate the development,
construction, operation, maintenance, management, and financing of the Convention Center Expansion and
Stadium, creation of, and participation in, a joint powers authority or other City- controlled entities to cause
the development, construction, operation, maintenance, management, and financing of the Convention
Center Expansion and Stadium.

(b)	The City is authorized to use an existing joint powers authority or to enter into a new joint powers
agreement to own and operate the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium. Such joint powers authority
may be formed pursuant to the Joint Exercise of Powers Act, California Government Code section 6500 et
seg.

(c)	Alternatively the City Council may create a City-controlled entity to own and operate the
Convention Center Expansion and Stadium.

(d)	The City Council may establish a City Commission or Advisory Board to oversee the construction
of the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium.

(e)	The City Council shall have the right to audit the expenditure of funds to ensure that the amounts
are distributed and spent in compliance with this ordinance. The City Council may bestow this authority
upon the Governmental Entity.

§61.2807 Definitions

"Bonds" has the same meaning as in San Diego Municipal Code Section 35.0102.

"Convention Center Expansion" has the same meaning as in San Diego Municipal Code Section

35.0102.

"Convention Center Expansion Construction Costs" has the same meaning as in San Diego Municipal
Code Section 35.0102.

N SD SDO-061

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

"Convention Center Expansion Infrastructure Costs" has the same meaning as in San Diego Municipal
Code Section 35.0102.

"Convention Center Expansion Land Costs" has the same meaning as in San Diego Municipal Code
Section 35.0102.

"Convention Center Expansion Site" has the same meaning as in San Diego Municipal Code Section

35.0102.

"Convention Center Expansion/Stadium Integration Allocation" has the same meaning as in San Diego
Municipal Code Section 35.0102.

"Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Fund" shall have the same meaning as in San Diego
Municipal Code Section 35.0140.

"Events" means convention events, civic events and/or other sporting events and entertainment events
(excluding professional football events) held in the Stadium by the Governmental Entity.

"Financing Agreements" has the same meaning as in San Diego Municipal Code Section 35.0102.

"Financing Costs" has the same meaning as in San Diego Municipal Code Section 35.0102.

"Football Season" means the professional football season (and the thirty (30) day period prior to
the commencement of the professional football season or such shorter time as agreed to by the Primary
Lessee).

"Governmental Entity" has the same meaning as in San Diego Municipal Code Section 35.0102.

"Independent Review Panel" means the independent cost allocations review panel convened pursuant
to Section 61.2809.

"Lease" means that certain lease between the Governmental Entity and the Primary Lessee for use of
the Stadium.

"O&M Plan" means that certain operations and maintenance plan that shall be agreed to by the
Government Entity and the Primary Lessee with respect to the operations and maintenance of the Stadium.

"Primary Lessee" has the same meaning as in San Diego Municipal Code Section 35.0102.

"Primary Lessee Facilities" means the Primary Lessee offices, Primary Lessee team training rooms,
Primary Lessee team locker rooms, and other Primary Lessee secure areas, as agreed to between the
Primary Lessee and the Governmental Entity, for the term of the Lease.

"Private Sector Stadium Contribution" has the same meaning as in San Diego Municipal Code section

35.0102.

"Stadium" has the same meaning as in San Diego Municipal Code section 35.0102.

"Stadium Construction Costs" has the same meaning as in San Diego Municipal Code section 35.0102.

"Stadium Infrastructure Costs" has the same meaning as in San Diego Municipal Code section 35.0102.
§61.2808 Construction Procedures and Determination of Cost Allocation

(a)	Cost allocations between the Convention Center Expansion portion of the integrated facility and
the Stadium portion of the integrated facility, including allocations between Convention Center Expansion
Costs, Convention Center Expansion Infrastructure Costs, Stadium Construction Costs and Stadium
Infrastructure Costs, shall be determined prior to the start of construction of the Convention Center
Expansion and Stadium. The purpose of the cost allocations is to determine if the Primary Lessee is reguired
to contribute to the Governmental Entity additional amounts for Stadium Construction Costs and Stadium
Infrastructure Costs in excess of the Private Sector Stadium Contribution plus the amount of the Convention
Center Expansion/Stadium Integration Allocation. In no event shall the Convention Center Expansion/
Stadium Integration Allocation be reduced. In no event shall the Primary Lessee be reguired to pay any
amounts for the Convention Center Expansion Costs, Convention Center Expansion Infrastructure Costs or
Convention Center Expansion Land Costs.

PR-09L0-061

N SD SDO-062

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

(b)	The preliminary cost allocations shall be made at not less than ninety percent (90%) completed
conceptual, schematic, and design development documents for the Convention Center Expansion and
Stadium and the final cost allocation shall be based on not less than eighty percent (80%) completed
construction documents for the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium.

(c)	The Governmental Entity and the Primary Lessee shall each retain an independent nationally
recognized third party engineer and cost estimating firm with at least twenty (20) years' experience in cost
estimating structures of similar size, scope and complexity as the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium
to provide cost allocations between the Convention Center Expansion and the Stadium. The Governmental
Entity and the Primary Lessee shall seek to resolve any differences in allocations at each stage of preliminary
review.

(d)	At the completion of not less than eighty percent (80%) construction documents, the
Governmental Entity and the Primary Lessee shall each make a final determination of the cost allocations,
taking into account the preliminary allocations made by the estimating firms. The determination shall be in
writing and in reasonable detail showing the basis for the cost allocations.

(e)	If the final determinations of cost allocations of the Governmental Entity and the Primary Lessee
are within five percent (5%) of each other, then the final cost allocations shall be the average of the two
allocations.

(f)	If the allocations of the Governmental Entity and the Primary Lessee have a difference of more
than five percent (5%), the two final cost allocations shall be submitted to an Independent Review Panel.

The Independent Review Panel shall then select either the Governmental Entity cost allocation or the Primary
Lessee cost allocation, which shall be binding upon the parties.

§61.2809 Independent Review Panel

(a)	If an Independent Review Panel is reguired pursuant to subsection 61.2808(f), an Independent
Review Panel shall be established for the limited purpose as provided for pursuant to this Section. The
Independent Review Panel shall consist of five (5) members appointed by the Mayor as provided for
herein. The Primary Lessee shall nominate not less than six (6) prospective members nor more than eight

(8)	prospective members and the Mayor shall appoint two (2) members from the prospective members
nominated by the Primary Lessee. The City Council shall nominate not less than six (6) prospective
members nor more than eight (8) prospective members and the Mayor shall appoint two (2) members from
the prospective members nominated by the Council. The four (4) members initially appointed by the Mayor
shall then nominate not less than three (3) retired jurists nor more than five (5) retired jurists to serve as the
fifth member of the Independent Review Panel and the Mayor shall appoint the fifth member from those so
nominated. The retired jurists nominated shall each individually have at least twenty (20) years' combined
experience on the California Superior Court, Appellate Court, or Supreme Court, or any federal district or
appellate court located in the state. The retired jurist appointed by the Mayor shall serve as chairperson of
the panel.

(b)	Other than the retired jurist, all members of the Independent Review Panel shall meet one or
more of the following criteria:

(1)	A licensed architect with at least twenty (20) years' experience with projects of similar size,

scope and complexity as the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium.

(2)	A licensed civil engineer with at least twenty (20) years' experience with projects of similar

size, scope and complexity as the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium.

(3)	A licensed structural engineer with at least twenty (20) years1 experience with projects of

similar size, scope and complexity as the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium.

(c)	Decisions of the Independent Review Panel shall be made by a simple majority vote of the total
membership.

(d)	No member of the Independent Review Panel shall be under contract with or actively doing
business with the City, the Governmental Entity or the Primary Lessee or having been under contract or

N SD SDO-063

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

having done business with the City, the Governmental Entity or the Primary Lessee in the twelve (12) month
period immediately preceding their nomination.

(e)	The costs of the Independent Review Panel shall be paid for by the Primary Lessee. The
Independent Review Panel shall make its selection of either the Governmental Entity's final determination of
allocation of costs or the Primary Lessee's final determination of allocation of costs within sixty (60) days of
submission of the final determinations by the Governmental Entity and the Primary Lessee.

(f)	Neither the Governmental Entity nor the Primary Lessee shall have any right to appeal or
challenge, administratively or judicially, the determination of cost allocations beyond the Independent
Review Panel. No third party shall have any right to appeal or challenge, administratively or judicially, the
determination of cost allocations.

(g)	The final cost allocations shall not affect the amount of the Convention Center/Stadium
Integration Allocation. If the final cost allocations of the Stadium Construction Costs and Stadium
Infrastructure Costs exceeds the sum of the Private Sector Stadium Contribution plus the amount of
Convention Center Expansion/Stadium Integration Allocation, the Primary Lessee shall be responsible for
such additional cost allocations. The Primary Lessee also shall be responsible for any Stadium Construction
Costs and Stadium Infrastructure Costs cost overruns, if any, above the sum of Private Sector Stadium
Contribution plus the amount of Convention Center Expansion/Stadium Integration Allocation.

§61.2810_______Construction Management

(a)	The Governmental Entity and the Primary Lessee may elect to have one or more third-party
firms be retained to be a joint construction and/or project manager of the Convention Center Expansion and
Stadium construction, subject to the reasonable approval of both parties. The foregoing notwithstanding,
the Governmental Entity and the Primary Lessee also may each elect to have a construction and/or project
manager represent their interests individually.

(b)	Any third-party joint construction and/or project manager of the Convention Center Expansion
and Stadium construction must be nationally recognized and have at least twenty (20) years1 experience in
construction management and/or project management of facilities of similar size, scope and complexity as
the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium.

(c)	Selection of a joint construction and/or project manager of the Convention Center Expansion and
Stadium construction shall be based on depth of relevant experience, quality of the proposed construction/
project management plan and overall approach, quality of proposed project team, quality of construction
approach, fee, and general conditions and general reguirements, and shall be subject to applicable laws for
similar selections, if any.

§61.2811_______Facility Management

(a)	The Governmental Entity and the Primary Lessee, may elect to have the Primary Lessee or its
affiliate act as manager of the Stadium and common areas shared with the Convention Center Expansion, or
the Governmental Entity and the Primary Lessee may elect to have a third-party firm be retained to be the
manager of the Stadium and common areas shared with the Convention Center Expansion, subject to the
reasonable approval of both parties.

(b)	Any third-party manager of the Stadium must be nationally recognized and have at least ten (10)
years' experience in managing or operating facilities of similar size, scope and complexity as the Stadium.

(c)	Selection of the Stadium third-party manager shall be based on experience, guality of the
management plan, guality of personnel designated for the project, and expected costs and revenues, and
shall be subject to applicable laws for similar selections, if any.

§61.2812	Lease Items

The lease with the Primary Lessee shall be subject to good faith negotiations between the
Governmental Entity and the Primary Lessee. Principal items for the lease include the following:

(i)	the Primary Lessee shall be responsible for the design and construction of the Stadium

and any joint use facilities on behalf of the Governmental Entity and for all costs related to the design

N SD SDO-064

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

and construction of the Stadium, except for the Convention Center Expansion/Stadium Integration
Allocation and as provided for in this ordinance.

(ii)	the Primary Lessee will have exclusive control over Primary Lessee Facilities, for the term
of the Lease.

(iii)	the Primary Lessee will have exclusive control and operation of the Stadium and associated
common areas only during the Football Season subject to the right of the Governmental Entity to

use the Stadium and associated common areas (excluding Primary Lessee Facilities) for Events, as
provided for herein.

(iv)	the Primary Lessee shall pay rent to the Governmental Entity in an amount equal to (a) all
costs and expenses of operating and maintaining the Stadium to the extent such costs and expenses
are directly attributable to professional football events conducted by the Primary Lessee, (b) the
additional operating, maintenance and capital costs for the Stadium (excluding costs and expenses
directly attributable to Events) over and above those funds available to the Governmental Entity as
provided for in (x) and (xi) below and incurred by the Governmental Entity for operations, maintenance
and capital improvements and repairs of the Stadium as required by the O&M Plan, (c) reasonable
costs incurred by the City and paid by the Governmental Entity or paid directly to the City by the
Primary Lessee in providing professional football event day public safety and traffic management
services related to Stadium events, other than routine governmental service for the Convention Center
Expansion and Stadium consistent with the delivery of services generally within the City, and (d)
possessory interest taxes levied on the Stadium leasehold interest and other generally applicable City
taxes and fees applicable to the Stadium paid by the Governmental Entity or paid directly to the City or
County by the Primary Lessee.

(v)	other than rent provided in (iv) above Primary Lessee shall not be required to pay, directly
or indirectly, any additional rent, charges, fees, or exactions, other than non-discriminatory City
processing fees and costs associated with issuance of permits, and non-discriminatory fees and
assessments normally charged development projects in the City.

(vi)	the Governmental Entity shall have the right to hold Events in the Stadium (excluding
Primary Lessee Facilities) during the Football Season provided that such events do not occur on
professional football game days or the day prior to such professional football game days (unless
approved by Primary Lessee), such Events are coordinated with the Primary Lessee and does not
otherwise interfere with the ability of the Primary Lessee to hold professional football events and such
events do not damage the playing field or the Primary Lessee Facilities. Events may be subject to long-
term advance booking during the Football Season through coordination with the Primary Lessee.

(vii)	during the portion of the year which is outside of the Football Season, the Governmental
Entity shall have exclusive use of the Stadium, other than Primary Lessee Facilities, and the
Governmental Entity may utilize the Stadium (excluding Primary Lessee Facilities) for Events.

(viii)	in connection with any Events held by the Governmental Entity in the Stadium during
the Football Season, the Governmental Entity shall return the Stadium to the Primary Lessee in the
same condition as the Stadium was in prior to use by the Governmental Entity and in the condition as
reguired by the O&M Plan-

fix) the Governmental Entity shall turn over the Stadium to the Primary Lessee at least thirty
(30) days prior to the commencement of the Football Season (or such shorter time as agreed to by
the Primary Lessee) and shall return the Stadium to the Primary Lessee in the same condition as the
Stadium was in prior to use by the Governmental Entity and in the condition as reguired by the O&M
Plan.

(x)	the Governmental Entity shall use all payments specifically designated and received by
the Governmental Entity under Section 35.0140 for the Stadium operations, maintenance and capital
improvements and repairs of the Stadium.

(xi)	the Governmental Entity shall receive all revenues and shall be responsible for paying all
expenses directly attributable to Events held in the Stadium by the Governmental Entity and also shall

PR-09L0-064

N SD SDO-065

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

use net revenues earned by the Governmental Entity from sporting and entertainment events held in
the Stadium by the Governmental Entity, but excluding convention events and civic events held in the
Stadium, for other operations, maintenance and capital improvements and repairs of the Stadium.

(xii)	the Governmental Entity shall retain all revenues and pay all expenses directly attributable
to Events held in the Convention Center Expansion by the Governmental Entity and shall be responsible
for all operations, maintenance and capital expenses of the Convention Center Expansion.

(xiii)	the Primary Lessee shall retain and the Governmental Entity shall have no rights to
revenues from Stadium naming rights, Stadium sponsorships, Stadium advertising and signage,
professional football event revenues or any professional football team revenues including without
limitation ticket revenues, broadcast and media revenues, team sponsorships, professional football
concession revenues, merchandise revenues, professional football event parking revenues, suite and
club seat revenues, or any other professional football team related revenue.

Section 6. Internal General Plan, Downtown Community Plan, and Municipal Code Consistency.

A.	The amendments to the Downtown Community Plan, a part of the City General Plan, as set forth in
Section 4 above, express the People of the City of San Diego's intent to eliminate any possible internal
inconsistency within or between any elements of the General Plan, the Downtown Community Plan or any
provisions contained in the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Planned District. It is the People's
intent that the Downtown Community Plan, as amended by this Initiative, constitutes an integrated, internally
consistent and compatible statement of planning policies. It is the People's further intent that if and to the
extent there is no exact or literal match between the General Plan, the Downtown Community Plan and the
Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Planned District, those planning documents and their provisions
be read and construed in full harmony with each other as provided for by this Initiative.

B.	It is the People's intent that the regulations contained in Section 5.B of this Initiative be read and
construed in full harmony with the General Plan and the Downtown Community Plan. To the extent that any
provisions of the San Diego Municipal Code, including the Land Development Code, or any other ordinances
of the City, may be inconsistent with this Initiative, the provisions of this Initiative shall govern.

Section 7. Implementation of this Initiative.

A.	Upon the effective date of this Initiative, the City is directed to promptly take all appropriate actions
needed to implement this Initiative. This Initiative is considered adopted and effective, upon the earliest date
legally possible.

B.	Upon the effective date of this Initiative, the provisions of Section 4 of this Initiative are hereby inserted
into the Downtown Community Plan; except that if the four amendments of the General Plan permitted

by state law for any calendar year have already been utilized in the year in which this Initiative becomes
effective, the General Plan amendments set forth in this Initiative shall be the first amendments inserted into
the General Plan on January 1 of the next year.

C.	The General Plan in effect as of the filing of the Notice of Intent to Circulate this Initiative ("Filing
Date"), and the General Plan as amended by this Initiative, comprise an integrated, internally consistent and
compatible statement of policies for the City. To ensure that the City's General Plan remains an integrated,
internally consistent and compatible statement of policies for the City, any provision of the General Plan
that is adopted between the Filing Date and the effective date of the General Plan amendments adopted

by this Initiative shall, to the extent that such interim-enacted provision is inconsistent with the General
Plan amendments adopted by this Initiative, be amended as soon as possible and in the manner and time
required by state law to ensure consistency between the provisions adopted by this Initiative and other
elements of the General Plan.

D.	All future project approvals and other actions needed to implement the Convention Center Expansion
and Stadium Planned District shall be consistent with the purpose of this Initiative, as more fully set forth
in Section 3 above, to permit and implement the development, construction, operation, maintenance,
management and financing of the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Project.

N SD SDO-066

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

Section 8. Effect of Other Measures on the Same Ballot.

A. In approving this Initiative, it is the People of the City of San Diego's intent to create a comprehensive
regulatory plan to govern potential future uses and development of the Property, including the sources of
funding to allow for those uses and development. If this Initiative appears on the same ballot with another
measure on the same subject matter, and a majority of the voters vote in favor of both initiatives at the
same election, then it is the People's intent that only that measure which receives the greatest number of
affirmative votes shall control in its entirety and said other measure or measures shall be rendered void
and without any legal effect. In no event shall this Initiative be interpreted in a manner that would permit its
operation in conjunction with the non-conflicting provisions of another measure on the same subject matter.
If this Initiative is approved by the voters but superseded by law in whole or in part by any other measure on
the same subject matter approved by the voters at the same election, and such other measure is later held
invalid, this Initiative shall be self-executing and given full force of law. The People of the City of San Diego
expressly declare this to be our intent, regardless of any contrary language in any other ballot measure.

Section 9. Interpretation and Severability.

A.	This Initiative must be interpreted so as to be consistent with all federal and state laws, rules, and
regulations. If any section, sub-section, sentence, clause, phrase, part, or portion of this Initiative is held to
be invalid or unconstitutional by a final judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction, such decision does
not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this Initiative. The People of the City of San Diego declare
that this Initiative, and each section, sub-section, sentence, clause, phrase, part, or portion thereof, would
have been signed, adopted, or passed irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, sub-sections,
sentences, clauses, phrases, part, or portion is found to be invalid. If any provision of this Initiative is held
invalid as applied to any person or circumstance, such invalidity does not affect any application of this
Initiative that can be given effect without the invalid application.

B.	If any portion of this Initiative is held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, we the People
of the City of San Diego indicate our strong desire that: (i) the City Council use its best efforts to sustain and
re-enact that portion, and (ii) the City Council implement this Initiative by taking all steps possible to cure
any inadequacies or deficiencies identified by the court in a manner consistent with the express and implied
intent of this Initiative, including adopting or reenacting any such portion in a manner consistent with the
intent of this Initiative.

C.	This Initiative must be broadly construed in order to achieve the purposes stated above. It is the intent
of the People of the City of San Diego that the provisions of this Initiative be interpreted or implemented by
the City and others in a manner that facilitates the purposes set forth in this Initiative.

Section 10 Amendment.

A.	The provisions of this Initiative can be amended or repealed only by a majority of the voters of the City
of San Diego voting in an election held in accordance with state law.

B.	The text of existing provisions of the City of San Diego Municipal Code that are included in this
Initiative for informational/reference purposes only and not modified herein, are not subject to this Section
10.

Section 11 Exhibits to this Initiative.

For ease of understanding, the Exhibits to this Initiative are:

Exhibit A:	The	Property

Exhibit B:	Amendment to the Zoning Map of the City of San Diego

Exhibit C:	Division 25 of Article 1 of Chapter 6 of the San Diego Municipal Code

PR-09L0-066

N SD SDO-067

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)
EXHIBIT A
The Property

PR-09L0-067

N SD SDO-068

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

EXHIBIT B

AMENDMENT TO THE ZONING MAP OF THE CITY OF SAN DIEGO

The City of San Diego Zoning Map is amended by this Initiative as shown on the map below (the real
property is located within the bold black outline for ease of reference). As amended by this Initiative, the
eastern portions of the real property are located in the CCPD-MC / CCESPD-MU zone and the western
portions of the real property are located in the CCPD-BP / CCESPD-MU zone.

San Diego Municipal Code
Chapter 6: Public Works and Property; Public Improvement and Assessment Proceedings
Article 1: Public Improvement and Assessment Proceedings
Division 25: San Diego Tourism Marketing District Procedural Ordinance

§61.2501 Purpose and Intent

The purpose and intent of this Division is:

(a)	To allow for the establishment of a tourism marketing district to provide for tourism
development, including coordinated joint marketing and promotion of San Diego
businesses, in order to retain and expand the lodging industry which is one of the top
revenue generators for the San Diego economy and a key employment sector.

(b)	To create a mechanism to fund promotional activities for tourism development through the
levy of assessments upon the businesses to which the special and specific benefit from
those activities is conferred.

(c)	To provide a method for the involvement of a nonprofit entity to participate in the
preparation and review of proposed tourism marketing district plans for district activities.

N SD SDO-069

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

(d)	To provide a method for the City Council to authorize a nonprofit entity with specific interest
in the promotion of City tourism to implement and administer district activities.

(e)	To provide a mechanism with which a charge may be imposed for a special and specific
benefit conferred directly to the payors that is not provided to those not charged and which
does not exceed the reasonable costs to the City of San Diego of conferring the benefit.

§61.2502	Citation of Division

This division may be cited as the San Diego Tourism Marketing District Procedural Ordinance.

§61.2503	Rules of Construction

This Division shall be liberally construed in order to effectuate its purposes. No error, irregularity, informality
and no neglect or omission of any officer, in any procedure taken under this Division which does not directly
affect the jurisdiction of the San Diego City Council to order the work shall void or invalidate such procedure
for any assessment or the cost of the work done thereunder.

§61.2504	Definitions

For purposes of this division, defined terms appear in italics. The following definitions apply in this Division:

"Activities" means, but is not limited to, the promotion and marketing of assessed businesses to
provide a special and specific benefit to assessed businesses within the district that is not provided to those
not paying the assessment.

"Assessment" means a levy for the purpose of conducting activities which will provide a special and
specific benefit to the assessed businesses located within a tourism marketing district is not provided to
those not paying the assessment. Assessments levied under this Division are not special taxes.

"Business"means any and all types of hotels where a structure, or any portion of a structure, is held
out to the public as being occupied, or designed for occupancy, by transients for dwelling, lodging or
sleeping purposes.

"Business owner" means the owner, operator, or authorized representative of the business who is noted
on City records as the responsible party for the remitting and reporting of Transient Occupancy Tax pursuant
to San Diego Municipal Code section 35.0114.

"District management plan" or "plan" maos a proposal as defined in sections 61.2507. "Tourism
marketing district,"or "district,"means an area established pursuant to this Division, within which
businesses pay assessments to fund activities.

"Tourism marketing district association" or "association" means a private nonprofit entity which
represents, and whose membership includes only the assessed business owners or business owners'
representatives in a district and which participates in the preparation and review of proposed district
management plans tor district activities that provide a special and specific benefit to assessed businesses
that is not provided to those that are not assessed. A tourism marketing district association may be an
existing nonprofit entity or a newly formed nonprofit entity. In accordance with California Streets and
Highways Code section 36614.5, the association is a private entity and may not be considered a public entity
for any purpose, nor may its board members or staff be considered to be public officials for any purpose.

Transient has the same meaning as in San Diego Municipal Code section 35.0102.

§61.2505 Alternative Financing Method; No Limit on Other Provisions of Law

This Division provides an alternative method of financing certain activities. The provisions of this Division
shall not affect or limit any other provisions of law authorizing or providing for activities or the raising of
revenue for the benefit of businesses.

§61.2506 Establishment of Tourism Marketing District

A tourism marketing district may be established as provided in this Division, in the following manner:

(a)	Upon the submission of a written petition, signed by the business owners in the proposed
district who will pay more than 50 percent of the assessments proposed to be levied, the
City Council will initiate proceedings to establish a district by the adoption of a resolution
expressing its intention to establish a district. Where the same business ownermulti

N SD SDO-070

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

be assessed an amount in excess of 40 percent of the total amount of all assessments
proposed to be levied, that business owner's share of the assessment over such 40 percent
shall not be included in determining whether the petition is signed by business owners who
will pay more than 50 percent of the total amount of assessments proposed to be levied.

(b)	The petition of business owners required under subdivision (a) shall include a summary of
the district management plan. That summary shall include all of the following:

(1)	A map showing the boundaries of the district.

(2)	Information specifying where the complete district management plan can be obtained.

(3)	Information specifying that the complete district management plan shall be furnished
upon request.

(c)	The resolution of intention described in subdivision (a) shall contain all of the following:

(1)	A brief description of the proposed activities, the amount of the proposed
assessment, a statement that bonds will not be issued, and a description of the
exterior boundaries of the proposed district. The descriptions and statements do not
need to be detailed and shall be sufficient if they enable an owner to generally identify
the nature and extent of the activities and the location and extent of the proposed
district.

(2)	A time and place for a public hearing on the establishment of the tourism marketing
district and the levying of assessments, which shall be consistent with the
requirements of section 61.2508.

§61.2507 Tourism Marketing District Management Plan

The district management plan shaft contain all of the following:

(a)	A map of the district.

(b)	The name of the proposed district.

(c)	A description of the boundaries of the district, including the boundaries of any benefit
zones, proposed for establishment or extension in a manner sufficient to identify the
affected lands and businesses included. Nothing in this Division prohibits the boundaries
of a district created pursuant to this Division to overlap with other districts created
pursuant to this Division or assessment districts established pursuant to other provisions
of law including, but not limited to, the Parking and Business Improvement Area Law

of 1989, California Streets and Highways Code sections 36500 - 36551, or the Property
and Business Improvement District Law of 1994, California Streets and Highways Code
sections 36600 - 36671.

(d)	The general description of activities proposed for each year of operation of the district and
the estimated maximum cost thereof.

(e)	The estimated total annual amount proposed to be expended each year for administration
and operation of the district.

(f)	The proposed source or sources of financing including the proposed method and basis of
levying the assessment in sufficient detail to allow each business owner to calculate the
amount of the assessments be levied against their business.

(g)	The planned frequency for the levying of the assessments.

(h)	The specific number of years in which assessments will be levied. The maximum term for
any district is 40 years. The district management plan may set forth specific changes in
assessments for each year of operation of the district.

(i)	The proposed timing and duration of activities under the plan.

(j)	Any proposed rules and regulations to be applicable to the district.

N SD SDO-071

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

(k)	A list of the businesses to be assessed then in existence.

(l)	A description of the procedures utilized by the association for the nomination and election
of the association's board of directors.

(m)	Any other item or matter required to be incorporated therein by the San Diego City Council,
the San Diego Municipal Code, or any other applicable law. The district management
plan shall be approved by City Council at the time City Council considers the petition

of businesses seeking to establish a tourism marketing district. Should the businesses
or the tourism marketing district association seek to modify the plan at any time, such
modifications shall be subject to the requirements of sections 61.2519 and 61.2520.

§61.2508 Notice of Proposed Assessments; Public Hearing

(a)	If the City Council proposes to levy a new or increased assessment pursuant to this

Division, the City shall comply with the following notice, protest, and hearing procedures:

(1)	The City Council shall identify all businesses which will have a special and specific
benefit conferred on them by the activities and upon which an assessment \n\W be
imposed.

(2)	All assessments shall be supported by the management plan.

(3)	The City shall give notice by mail to the business owner of each identified business.
Each notice shall state the estimated total initial annual assessments tor the entire
district, the duration of the payments, the reason for the assessment and the basis
upon which the amount of the proposed assessmentms calculated, and a specific
formula in sufficient detail to allow the business owner to calculate the proposed
assessment on the business, together with the date, time, and location of a public
hearing on the proposed assessment.

(4)	If the proposed assessment formula is based on gross room revenue, the amount of
the proposed assessment for each identified business shall be estimated based on
gross room rental revenue for the City's most recent complete fiscal year.

(5)	Each notice shall also include, in a conspicuous place, a summary of the procedures
for the completion, return, and tabulation of the ballots required pursuant to section
61.2508(a)(6), including a statement that the assessment shall not be imposed if the
ballots submitted in opposition to the assessment exceed the ballots submitted in
favor of the assessment, with ballots weighted according to the proportional financial
obligation of the affected business. The City shall give notice by mail at least 45
days prior to the date of the public hearing upon the proposed assessment. On the
face of the envelope mailed to the business owner, in which the notice and ballot

are enclosed, there shall appear in substantially the following form in no smaller
than 16-point bold type: "OFFICIAL BALLOT ENCLOSED." The City may additionally
place the phrase "OFFICIAL BALLOT ENCLOSED" on the face of the envelope mailed
to the business owner, in which the notice and ballot are enclosed, in a language or
languages other than English.

(6)	Each notice given pursuant to this section shall contain a ballot that includes the
City's address for receipt of the ballot and a place where the person returning the
assessment ballot may indicate his or her name, a reasonable identification of the
business, and his or her support or opposition to the proposed assessment. Each
ballot shall be in a form that conceals its contents once it is sealed by the person
submitting the ballot. Each ballot shall be signed and either mailed or otherwise
delivered to the address indicated on the ballot. Regardless of the method of
delivery, all ballots shall be received at the address indicated, or the site of the public
testimony, in order to be included in the tabulation of a majority protest pursuant

to section 61.2508(a)(8). Ballots shall remain sealed until the tabulation of ballots
pursuant to section 61.2508(a)(8) commences, provided that a ballot may be

PR-09L0-071

N SD SDO-072

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

submitted, changed, or withdrawn by the person who submitted the ballot prior to
the conclusion of the public testimony on the proposed assessment at the hearing
required pursuant to this section. The City may provide an envelope for the return
of the ballot, provided that if the return envelope is opened by the City prior to the
tabulation of ballots pursuant to section 61.2508(a)(8), the enclosed ballot shall
remain sealed as provided in this section.

(7)	At the time, date, and place stated in the notice mailed pursuant to section 61.2508(a)
(3), the City shall conduct a public hearing upon the proposed assessment. At

the public hearing, the City shall consider all objections or protests, if any, to the
proposed assessment. At the public hearing, any person shall be permitted to present
written or oral testimony. The public hearing may be continued from time to time.

(8)	At the conclusion of the public hearing, a person or persons designated by the City
shall tabulate the ballots submitted, and not withdrawn, in support of or opposition to
the proposed assessment.

(9)	The City Council may, if necessary, continue the tabulation at a different time or
location accessible to the public, provided the City Council announces the time and
location at the hearing. Technological methods may be used in the tabulation of the
ballots, including, but not limited to, punchcard, or optically readable (bar-coded)
ballots.

(10)	A majority protest exists if the ballots submitted, and not withdrawn, in opposition
to the proposed assessment exceed the ballots submitted, and not withdrawn, in
its favor, weighting those ballots by the amount of the proposed assessment \o be
imposed upon the identified business tor which each ballot was submitted.

(11)	If there is a majority protest against the imposition of a new assessment or an
increase in an existing assessment, the City shall not impose or increase the
assessment.

(b)	In addition to the requirements of section 61.2508(a), the City shall also comply with

California Government Code section 54954.6, as it relates to adopting any new or increased
assessment.

§61.2509 City Council Adoption, Revision or Modification of Assessments; Modification of
Approved Activities; Changes to District Boundaries

At the conclusion of the public hearing to establish the district, the City Council may adopt, revise, change,
reduce or modify the proposed assessment or the type or types of activities to be funded with the revenues
from the assessments. At the hearing, the City Council may only make changes to the boundaries of the
proposed tourism marketing district that will exclude territory containing businesses that the City Council
finds will not benefit from the proposed activities; and may only change proposed assessments by reducing
them

§61.2510 Resolution of Formation of Tourism Marketing District

(a)	If the City Council, following a public hearing, decides to establish a proposed tourism
marketing district, the City Council shall adopt a resolution of formation that shall contain
all of the following:

(1)	A brief description of the proposed activities, the amount of the proposed
assessment, and a description of the exterior boundaries of the proposed district. The
descriptions and statements do not need to be detailed and shall be sufficient if they
enable an owner to generally identify the nature and extent of the activities and the
location and extent of the proposed district.

(2)	The number, date of adoption, and title of the resolution of intention.

(3)	The time and place where the public hearing was held concerning the establishment
of the district.

N SD SDO-073

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

(4)	A determination regarding any protests received. The City Council shall not establish
the district or levy assessments if a majority protest was received.

(5)	A statement that the operations of the district established by the resolution shall be
subject to any amendments to this Division.

(6)	A statement that the activities to be provided to benefit businesses in the district will
be funded by the levy of the assessments. The revenue from the levy of assessments
within a district shall not be used to provide activities that directly benefit businesses
outside the district or for any purpose other than the purposes specified in the
resolution of intention, as modified by the City Council at the hearing concerning
establishment of the district.

(7)	A statement specifying the time and manner for levying the assessments by the City
Treasurer.

(8)	A statement that any assessment imposed pursuant to this Division is levied solely
upon the business owner within the district, that the business owner is solely
responsible for payment of the assessment when due, and that, if the business
owner chooses to collect any portion of the assessment from a transient, that
portion shall be specifically called out and identified for the transient in any and all
communications from the business owner as a "San Diego Tourism Marketing District
Assessment."

(9)	A finding that the activities funded by the assessments will provide a special and
specific benefit to businesses within the tourism marketing district that is not
provided to those not paying the assessment.

(b)	The adoption of the resolution of formation and recordation of the notice and map pursuant

to section 61.2512 shall constitute the levy of an assessment in each of the fiscal years

referred to in the district management plan.

§61.2511 City Clerk to Record Notice and Map of District

Following adoption of a resolution establishing a district pursuant to section 61.2510 the City Clerk shall
record a notice and map of the district.

§61.2512 City Council Establishment of Benefit Zones

The City Council may establish one or more separate benefit zones within the district based upon the degree
of benefit derived from the activities to be provided within the benefit zone, and may impose a different
assessment\N\thm each benefit zone. The City Council may also define categories of businesses based upon
the degree of benefit that each will derive from the activities to be provided within the district, and may
impose a different assessment or rate of assessment on each category of business, or on each category of
business within each zone.

§61.2513 Establishment, Modification or Disestablishment; Districts and Benefit Zones

All provisions of this Division applicable to the establishment, modification, or disestablishment of a
tourism marketing district apply to the establishment, modification, or disestablishment of benefit zones or
categories of business. In order to establish, modify, or disestablish a benefit zone or category of business,
the City Council shall follow the procedure to establish, modify, or disestablish a tourism marketing district.

§61.2514	Expiration of Tourism Marketing District

If a tourism marketing district expires due to the time limit set pursuant to section 61.2507(h), a new district
management plan may be created and a new district established pursuant to this Division.

§61.2515	Collection of Assessments

The collection of the assessments levied pursuant to this Division shall be made at the time and in the
manner set forth by the City Council in the resolution establishing the district described in section 61.2510.

A method for charging interest and penalties for delinquent payments of assessments may also be
prescribed in the resolution establishing the district.

N SD SDO-074

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

§61.2516 Exemptions from Assessments

The following business revenues are considered exempt from assessment under this Division:

(1) Revenues from a transient who has exercised occupancy for more than one month;

(2) Revenues from a transient whose room rent is being paid directly or indirectly by the
federal government or the State of California, or

(3) Revenues from a transient who is by treaty exempt from locally-levied transient
occupancy taxes.

§61.2517	Validity of Assessments; Contests

The validity of an assessment levied under this Division shall not be contested in any action or proceeding
unless the action or proceeding is commenced within 30 days after the resolution establishing the district
and levying the assessment is adopted pursuant to section 61.2510. Any appeal from a final judgment in an
action or proceeding shall be perfected by the appellant within 30 days after the entry of judgment.

§61.2518	City's Promotional Responsibilities

(a)	Nothing in this Division shall relieve the City of its responsibility to promote the City of San
Diego as enumerated in San Diego Municipal Code section 35.0128 regarding the use of
revenues from the City's Transient Occupancy Tax.

(b)	The City Manager, or the Manager's designee, will provide the tourism marketing district
association, on an annual basis, a statement detailing actual Transient Occupancy Tax
revenues collected under San Diego Municipal Code section 35.0103 that are available for
promoting the City. This statement shall also describe the prescribed use of revenues from
the City's Transient Occupancy Tax to include, but not be limited to:

(1)	The annual debt payment for all existing bond obligations related to the San Diego
Convention Center Corporation;

(2)	The annual marketing subsidy as required by the San Diego Convention Center
Corporation; and

(3)	The annual debt payment for all existing bond obligations relative to Balboa Park and
Mission Bay Park.

§61.2519 Modifications of District Management Plan

A tourism marketing district association may, at any time, request that the City Council modify its district
management plan. Any modification of the district management plan shall be made pursuant to this Division.

§61.2520 District Plan Modification; Public Hearing Required

(a) Upon the written request of a tourism marketing district association, the City Council may
modify the district management plan, including modification of the activities to be funded
with the revenue derived from the levy of the assessments, after conducting one public
hearing on the proposed modifications. If the modification includes the levy of a new or
increased assessment, the City shall comply with the notice and protest requirements of
section 61.2508.

(b)	The City Council shall adopt a resolution of intention which states the proposed
modification prior to the public hearing required by this section. The public hearing shall be
held not more than 90 days after the adoption of the resolution of intention.

(c)	The City shall give all business owners within the district written notice by mail, of
the proposed modifications of the district management plan, an explanation of the
modification, and the reason for the modification, together with the date, time and location
of a public hearing on the proposed modification.

§61.2521

(a)

Tourism Marketing District Association; Report of Activities

Each tourism marketing district association shall cause to be prepared a prospective
report for each fiscal year, except the first year, for which assessments are to be levied and

N SD SDO-075

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

collected to pay the costs of the activities described in the report. The tourism marketing
district association's first report shall be due after the first year of operation of the district.
The report may propose changes, including, but not limited to, the boundaries of the
tourism marketing district or any benefit zones within the district, the basis and method of
levying the assessments, and any changes in the classification of categories of business, if
a classification is used.

(b)	The report shall be filed with the City Clerk prior to the end of each fiscal year, and shall
refer to the tourism marketing district by name, specify the fiscal year to which the report
applies, and, with respect to that fiscal year, shall contain all of the following information:

(1)	Any proposed changes to the boundaries of the tourism marketing district or to any
benefit zones or classification of businesses within the district

(2)	The activities to be provided for that fiscal year.

(3)	An estimate of the cost of providing the activities for that fiscal year.

(4)	The method and basis of levying the assessment in sufficient detail to allow each
business ownerto estimate the amount of the assessment to be levied against his or
her business for that fiscal year.

(5)	The estimated amount of any surplus or deficit revenues to be carried over from the
previous fiscal year.

(6)	The estimated amount of any contributions to be made from sources other than
assessments levied pursuant to this Division.

(c)	The City Council may approve the report as filed by the tourism marketing district
association, or may modify any portion of the report and approve it as modified. Such
modification shall only be made subject to the noticing provisions of sections 61.2520. Any
portion of the report which proposes to modify the district management plan shall only

be approved after complying with the notice and public hearing requirements of Section
61.2520. The City Council shall not approve a change in the basis and method of levying
assessments that would impair an authorized or executed contract to be paid from the
revenues derived from the levy of assessments.

(d)	A tourism marketing district association shall comply with the Ralph M. Brown Act,
California Government Code sections 54950 - 54963, at all times when matters within
the subject matter of the district are heard, discussed, or deliberated, and with the
California Public Records Act, California Government Code sections 6250 - 6276.48, for all
documents relating to activities of the district.

(e)	Each business owner paying the tourism district assessment has the right to vote in annual
elections of the association and the right to seek nomination or election to the board of
directors of the association.

§61.2522 Tourism Marketing District Association; Contract With Nonprofit

The district management plan may state that a tourism marketing district association will provide for
and administer the activities described in the district management plan. If the district management plan
designates a tourism marketing district association, the City may contract with the designated nonprofit
corporation to implement the plan and carry out specified activities, subject to the terms and conditions
enumerated in the contract.

§61.2523 Renewal of Expired District

(a) Upon renewal of an expired district, any remaining revenues derived from the levy of
assessments, or any revenues derived from the sale of assets acquired with the revenues,
shall be transferred to the renewed district. If the renewed district includes additional
businesses not included in the prior district, the remaining revenues shall be spent to
benefit only the businesses in the prior district. If the renewed district does not include

N SD SDO-076

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

businesses included in the prior district, the remaining revenues attributable to these
businesses shall be refunded to the owners of these businesses.

(b) Upon renewal, a district shall have a term not to exceed forty (40) years. There is no
requirement that the boundaries, assessments, or activities of a renewed district be the
same as the original or prior district.

§61.2524 Disestablishment of District; Procedures

(a) Any tourism marketing district established or extended pursuant to the provisions of this
Division, where there is no outstanding and unpaid indebtedness incurred to accomplish
any of the purposes of the district, may be disestablished by resolution of the City Council
in either of the following circumstances:

(1)	If the City Council finds there has been misappropriation of funds, malfeasance, or a
violation of law in connection with the management of the district, or

(2)	After the first year of operation of the district, there shall be a 30-day period each
year in which assessed business owners may request disestablishment of the district.
The first such period shall begin upon presentation to City Council of the district's
initial annual report of activities. During each successive year of operation of the
district, business owners shall have such a 30-day period to request disestablishment
upon presentation of the district's report of activities. Upon the written petition of
the business owners in the district who pay 50 percent or more of the assessments
levied, the City Council shall pass a resolution of intention to disestablish the district.
The City Council shall notice a hearing on disestablishment, pursuant to section
61.2508.

(b) The City Council shall adopt a resolution of intention to disestablish the district prior to
the public hearing required by this section. The resolution shall state the reason for the
disestablishment, shall state the time and place of the public hearing, and shall contain a
proposal to dispose of any assets acquired with the revenues of the assessments levied
within the district. The notice of the hearing on disestablishment required by this section
shall be given by mail to the owner of each business subject to assessment in the district.
The City Council shall conduct the public hearing not less than 30 days after the mailing of
the notice to the business owners. The public hearing shall be held not more than 60 days
after the adoption of the resolution of intention.

§61.2525 Disestablishment; Refund of Assessments

(a)	If the disestablishment occurs before an assessment is levied for the fiscal year, the
method and basis that was used to calculate the assessments levied in the immediate prior
fiscal year shall be used to calculate the amount of any refund. All outstanding assessment
revenue collected after disestablishment shall be spent on activities specified in the district
management plan.

(b)	Upon the disestablishment of a district, any remaining revenues, after all outstanding debts
are paid, derived from the levy of assessments, or derived from the sale of assets acquired
with the revenues, shall be refunded to the business owners then located and operating
within the district in which assessments were levied by applying the same method and
basis that was used to calculate the assessments levied in the fiscal year in which the
district is disestablished.

§61.2526 Action to Determine Validity; Action Contesting Validity

(a) An action to determine the validity of assessments, contracts, improvements, or activities
may be brought by the City or tourism marketing district association pursuant to Chapter
9 (commencing with section 860) of Title 10 of Part 2 of the California Code of Civil
Procedure. For such purpose an assessment, activity, improvement, or acquisition shall be
deemed to be in existence upon its authorization by City Council.

N SD SDO-077

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

(b) In accordance with California Streets and Highways Code section 36633, the validity of an
assessment levied under this Division shall not be contested in any action or proceeding
unless the action or proceeding is commenced within 30 days after the resolution levying
the assessment is adopted pursuant to section 61.251. Any appeal from a final judgment in
an action or proceeding shall be perfected within 30 days after the entry of judgment.

STATEMENT OF REASONS

A statement of the reasons for the proposed action as contemplated in said petition is as follows:

This Initiative adopts the legislative policy of the City to provide for the financing, development and operation
of the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Project and expanded tourism and conventions in the City
and, thereby, provide economic development opportunities, including creating jobs, increasing tourism, and
other economic activity in the City. The Initiative provides for the development of an integrated Convention
Center Expansion and Stadium that expands the City's ability to host a wider range of convention, civic,
sports, and entertainment events, including professional football: authorizes an increase in the Transient
Occupancy Tax, paid by hotel/motel guests, to be deposited in special City trust funds to be used for
the development and financing of the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium and the development
and implementation of a tourism and convention center marketing program; requires a private sector
contribution of $650,000,000 be provided for the Stadium and that a covenant and agreement be secured
requiring a professional football team leasing the Stadium to agree not to relocate for a period of 30 years;
provides for a one-time contribution of $350,000,000 from Transient Occupancy Tax revenues to pay for
allocated Stadium costs attributable to the Convention Center Expansion/Stadium integration and joint use
features; prohibits the City from paying for the construction of the Stadium or any cost overruns from the
Stadium construction; establishes an alternative land use plan allowing for the development a Convention
Center Expansion and Stadium Planned District in the East Village area of Downtown; and authorizes the City
Council, pursuant to a set of guiding legislative polices, to take any and all actions to permit the development
and financing of the Convention Center Expansion and Stadium Project.

Date: March 30, 2016	 /s/______________________

John "JT" Thomson
5060 Westminster Terrace
San Diego, CA 92116

PR-09L0-077

N SD SDO-078