IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL OF COUNTY OF KINGS:

% CENT PUBLIC SAFETY TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX

MEASURER

The current statewide sales and use tax rate is 7.5 percent on most retail transactions. In
2012, California voters approved Proposition 30 (“Prop. 30”), which increased the state’s sales
and use tax by % percent through December 31, 2016. If Prop. 30 is not extended, the statewide
sales and use tax rate will decrease to 7.25 percent beginning January 1, 2017. This measure
seeks approval of a lA percent transactions and use tax for local public safety purposes, that will
go into effect in 2017, unless Prop. 30 is extended. Thus, if the measure passes and Prop. 30 is
not extended, the current 7.5 percent rate will continue in Kings County with lA percent
permanently going to local public safety purposes. This proposal requires approval by two-thirds
of the electorate. (Due to the timing of the election, if the measure passes and the Prop. 30 sales
tax is not extended, the tax rate will decrease to 7.25 in Kings County temporarily between
January 1 and April 1, 2017.)

The revenues of this tax would be shared among the County and the four cities within
Kings County according to population. Each municipality would use its share of the revenues
for public safety purposes, as detailed in an expenditure plan agreed to among the municipalities.
Because the proposed tax is a special tax, state law requires that tax revenues be spent only as
provided in the plan. Paragraph 8 of the agreement containing the expenditure plan describes the
creation of a citizen’s oversight committee to review and provide feedback on expenditures of
tax revenues.

The expenditure plan requires the County to split its share of proceeds between the
Sheriffs Office and County Fire Department. The Sheriffs Office would use its share to hire
deputies to bolster patrol staff and in the County jail. The Fire Department would use its share
toward eliminating one person staffing at County fire stations. After meeting specified staffing
goals, additional funding could be allocated by the Board of Supervisors to build or rehabilitate
facilities to house Sheriff or fire operations, to purchase or replace frontline sheriff or fire
equipment, or for other public safety programs relating to crime prevention and fire safety. The
city councils of each of the four cities would develop an annual plan as part of the budget
process, allocating funds for similar public safety purposes. The measure includes language
preventing any jurisdiction from using the tax revenues to supplant existing expenditures.

Local transactions and use taxes are collected by the State Board of Equalization and
remitted to local agencies after deducting administrative fees to cover the state’s collection costs.
There are minor differences between local transactions and use taxes and sales taxes.

/s/ Colleen Carlson,

Kings County County Counsel

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Ordinance or Measure K. If you desire a copy of the ordinance or
measure, please call the elections official's office at (559) 852-4401 and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you.
You may also access the full text of the measure on the county Web site at the following Web site address
http://countyofkings.com/departments/general-services/assessor-clerk-recorder-elections/elections.

pl/2015-42-1107/78919.doc/analysis