Ballot question

The following question appeared on the ballot:[3]

Shall Chapter 6.32 be added to the Mendocino County Code, placing a
business tax on cannabis cultivation and dispensaries (not to exceed 10%
of gross receipts) and cannabis distribution, delivery, manufacturing,
nurseries, testing laboratories and transportation businesses ($2,500.00
per year, to be adjusted in accordance with consumer price index
increases) of medical and nonmedical cannabis where legalized by state
law, potentially generating millions of dollars annually to help fund county
services be approved?[4]

Impartial analysis

The following impartial analysis of the measure was prepared by the office of the

Mendocino County counsel:

This ballot measure seeks voter approval to amend the Mendocino
County Code to add Chapter 6.32 to add a Cannabis Business Tax. This
is a general tax and would apply only to the unincorporated areas of the
County.

This measure would impose a business license tax on cultivating,
manufacturing, dispensing, producing, processing, preparing, storing,
providing, donating, testing, selling or distributing, medical cannabis or
medical cannabis products. If non-medical cannabis activity becomes
legal in the State of California, this Ordinance would also apply to
non-medical cannabis businesses. The tax imposed by this measure
would be an annual tax.

The initial rate for commercial cannabis cultivation would be 2.5% of the
gross receipts per fiscal year with minimum rates of $1,250.00 for
cultivation of 2,500 square feet or less, $2,500.00 for cultivation of 5,000
square feet or less, and $5,000.00 for cultivation of greater than 5,000
square feet.

This tax could be increased by the Board of Supervisors after July 1,

2020. This measure allows for the Board of Supervisors to increase the
tax in increments of 2.5%, with a maximum tax rate of 10%. Such
increases may occur only once per fiscal year, and may occur only after
approval by the Board of Supervisors at a regularly scheduled meeting.

This measure would also provide for a commercial cannabis tax for all
other businesses besides cultivation at a flat rate of $2,500.00 per year, to
be increased after July 1,2020 according to the Consumer Price Index.

This measure provides for penalties and interest for the failure or refusal
to pay the business tax.

This measure provides that cultivation of personal medical cannabis would
be exempt from this business tax.

This measure was placed on the ballot by the Board of Supervisors.

This measure must be adopted by a majority of the voters.

A YES vote will be a vote in favor of adoption of the proposed ordinance.

A NO vote will be a vote against the adoption of the proposed ordinance^]

Mendocino County counsels