Marysville, California, Sales Tax
Increase, Measure C (June 2016)

Ballot question

The following question appeared on the ballot:m

Shall the City of Marysville enact a 1% sales tax (Transactions and Use Tax) for
general municipal purposes, such as fire safety, police protection and emergency
response services, traffic safety, streets and sidewalks repair, park improvements
and maintenance, reducing debt and rebuilding financial reserves, with the
following restrictions? This tax shall expire after ten years, on October 31, 2026.
Annually, the City shall publish a report of how much tax revenue was received and
how that money was used.m

Impartial Analysis from City Attorney

Measure C, if adopted by a majority of the voters voting on the measure, would enact an
additional one percent sales tax within the City of Marysville. This means that the sales tax rate
would increase by one percent (1.0%). The sales tax is also referred to as a “transactions and
use tax.” The current sales tax rate in the City of Marysville is seven and one-half percent
(7.50%). Accordingly, if this ballot measure is approved, the Marysville sales tax rate would
increase to eight and one-half percent (8.50%). The measure was placed on the ballot by the
governing body of the City.

The proposed increased City of Marysville sales tax, like the current sales tax, would be
collected at the same time and in the same manner as existing sales taxes.

All revenue generated from the proposed sales tax increase would be deposited into the City’s
General Fund and, accordingly, all monies collected pursuant to the sales tax increase would be
used by the City to pay for City operations and programs, such as fire and police protection,
traffic safety, street and sidewalk repair, park maintenance, debt service and general
administration of the City. The City would not be bound to use the tax monies for any special
purpose or for any particular projects, facilities or programs. As such, this ballot measure
proposes a “general tax” rather than a “special tax” and requires a simple majority vote for
adoption.

If the sales tax is adopted, it will automatically expire after ten years on October 31, 2026.
Additionally, the Marysville City Council is required to provide its citizens with an annually
published report of revenue and disbursements with respect to such a tax.

EXHIBIT 2

ORDINANCE NO. 1382

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF MARYSVILLE
IMPOSING A TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX TO BE
ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION

The City Council of the City of Marysville, State of California, does ordain as follows:

SECTION 1.

A new Chapter 3.05 entitled “Transactions and Use Tax” of Title 3 entitled “Revenue and
Finance” of the Marysville Municipal Code is hereby added as follows:

3.05.010. TITLE. This ordinance shall be known as the City of Marysville Transactions and Use
Tax Ordinance. The City of Marysville hereinafter shall be called "City." This ordinance shall be
applicable in the incorporated territory of the City.

3.05.020. OPERATIVE DATE. "Operative Date" means the first day of the first calendar quarter
commencing more than 110 days after the adoption of this ordinance, the date of such adoption
being as set forth below.

3.05.030. PURPOSE. This ordinance is adopted to achieve the following, among other purposes,
and directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish those purposes:

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the provisions of Part 1.6
(commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code and Section
7285.9 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 which authorizes the City to adopt this tax ordinance which shall
be operative if a majority of the electors voting on the measure vote to approve the imposition of
the tax at an election called for that purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates provisions identical
to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California insofar as those provisions are
not inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax and provides a
measure therefore that can be administered and collected by the State Board of Equalization in a
manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and requires the least possible deviation from,
the existing statutory and administrative procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization
in administering and collecting the California State Sales and Use Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be administered in a manner
that will be, to the greatest degree possible, consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division
2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting the transactions and use

1

taxes, and at the same time, minimize the burden of record keeping upon persons subject to
taxation under the provisions of this ordinance.

3.05.040. CONTRACT WITH STATE. Prior to the operative date, the City shall contract with
the State Board of Equalization to perform all functions incident to the administration and
operation of this transactions and use tax ordinance; provided, that if the City shall not have
contracted with the State Board of Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall nevertheless
so contract and in such a case the operative date shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter
following the execution of such a contract.

3.05.050 TRANSACTIONS TAX RATE. For the privilege of selling tangible personal property
at retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated territory of the City at the
rate of one percent (1.0%) of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible
personal property sold at retail in said territory on and after the operative date of this ordinance.

3.05.060 PLACE OF SALE. For the purposes of this ordinance, all retail sales are consummated
at the place of business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is delivered by
the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for delivery to an
out-of-state destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery charges, when
such charges are subject to the state sales and use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is
made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the State or has more than
one place of business, the place or places at which the retail sales are consummated shall be
determined under rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the State Board of
Equalization.

3.05.070 USE TAX RATE. An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other
consumption in the City of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on and after
the operative date of this ordinance for storage, use or other consumption in said territory at the
rate of one percent (1.0%) of the sales price of the property. The sales price shall include delivery
charges when such charges are subject to state sales or use tax regardless of the place to which
delivery is made.

3.05.080 ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW. Except as otherwise provided in
this ordinance and except insofar as they are inconsistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing with
Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a
part of this ordinance as though fully set forth herein.

3.05.090 LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF STATE LAW AND COLLECTION OF USE
TAXES. In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the name of
this City shall be substituted therefor. However, the substitution shall not be made when:

2

1.	The word "State" is used as a part of the title of the State Controller, State
Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or the
Constitution of the State of California;

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against this
City or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by or against the State Board of
Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the administration or operation of this
Ordinance.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sections referring to the
exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the result of the substitution would be to:

(a)	. Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use
or other consumption of tangible personal property which would not otherwise be exempt from
this tax while such sales, storage, use or other consumption remain subject to tax by the State
under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

(b)	. Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other
consumption of tangible personal property which would not be subject to tax by the state under
the said provision of that code.

4.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711, 6715, 6737,
6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

B.	The word "City" shall be substituted for the word "State" in the phrase "retailer engaged
in business in this State" in Section 6203 and in the definition of that phrase in Section 6203.

3.05.100 PERMIT NOT REQUIRED. If a seller's permit has been issued to a retailer under
Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional transactor's permit shall not be
required by this ordinance.

3.05.110 EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the use tax the
amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or by any City, City and
County, or County pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the
amount of any state-administered transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax the gross
receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum products, to
operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the county in which the sale is
made and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or

3

property under the authority of the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign
government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the City which is shipped to a point outside
the City, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by the retailer or his agent, or
by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at such point. For the purposes
of this paragraph, delivery to a point outside the City shall be satisfied:

(a). With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject to
registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle
Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and
undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the
Vehicle Code by registration to an out-of-City address and by a declaration under penalty of
perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that such address is, in fact, his or her principal place of
residence; and

(b). With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of business
out-of-City and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, that the vehicle will be
operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to furnish the
property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this
ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such property,
for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed
by the lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, the sale or lease of
tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for
any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to
terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this ordinance, the storage, use or other
consumption in this City of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a transactions tax
under any state-administered transactions and use tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of aircraft and used
or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common
carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under a certificate of public convenience
and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign
government. This exemption is in addition to the exemptions provided in Sections 6366 and
6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of California.

4

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price pursuant to
a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the tangible
personal property arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such property for any
period of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by a
lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, storage, use, or other
consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power over, tangible personal property
shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for
which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or
lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in business in the City
shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible personal property, unless
the retailer ships or delivers the property into the City or participates within the City in making
the sale of the property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving the order, either
directly or indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer in the City or through any
representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the City under the authority of
the retailer.

7.	"A retailer engaged in business in the City" shall also include any retailer of any of
the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section
4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of
the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing
with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to collect use tax from
any purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the City.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit against that tax any
transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district imposing, or retailer
liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code
with respect to the sale to the person of the property the storage, use or other consumption of
which is subject to the use tax.

3.05.120 AMENDMENTS. All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this ordinance to
Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and which
are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code,
and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code,
shall automatically become a part of this ordinance, provided however, that no such amendment
shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this ordinance.

3.05.130 ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN. No injunction or writ of mandate or other
legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit, action or proceeding in any court against the
State or the City, or against any officer of the State or the City, to prevent or enjoin the collection

5

under this ordinance, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or
any amount of tax required to be collected.

6

SECTION 2.

3.05.140 SEVERABILITY. If any provision of this ordinance or the application thereof to any
person or circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the ordinance and the application of such
provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

SECTION 3.

3.05.150 EFFECTIVE DATE. This ordinance relates to the levying and collecting of the City
Transactions and Use Taxes and shall take effect immediately.

The foregoing ordinance was introduced before the City Council of the City of Marysville,
County of Yuba, at the meeting of the City Council of said City, held on the Second day of
February, 2016, and finally adopted at the regular meeting of said Council held on the Sixteenth
day of February, 2016, by the following vote:

AYES:	Bill Simmons, Dale Whitmore, Jim Kitchen, Christopher Pedigo,

and Ricky Samayoa

NOES:	None

ABSTAIN:	None

ABSENT:	None

Ricky A. Samayoa, Mayor

ATTEST:___________________________

Billie J. Fangman, City Clerk

7