MEASURE EE

COUNTY COUNSEL'S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF
MEASURE EE

A school district may levy a qualified special tax upon approval by two-
thirds of the votes cast on a measure pursuant to section 4 of article XIIIA
of the California Constitution and section 50075 et seq. of the California
Government Code.

The Board of Trustees (Board) for the Oak Grove School District (District)
proposes levying a qualified special tax for educational purposes. If
approved, the tax will be levied in the amount of $132 per parcel per year
beginning with fiscal year 2017-2018 and ending nine years later. An
exemption from the proposed tax is available upon application to persons
who are 65 years or older and own and occupy a parcel as a principal
residence. All property that would otherwise be exempt from property tax
will also be exempt from the proposed tax.

State law requires the District to state the specific purposes for which
the tax proceeds will be used and only spend the proceeds of the tax
for these purposes. The stated specific purposes of the proposed tax
are: (1) maintaining small class sizes; (2) hiring, retaining and training
quality teachers; (3) expanding science, technology, engineering, math,
language, art, and music education; (4) improving health, safety, security,
and maintenance services; and (5) providing before-and after-school
programs for District students.

The District is required by law to provide additional accountability
measures for the proceeds. These measures include: (1) depositing the
proceeds into a fund that is separate and apart from other District funds;
and (2) providing an annual written report to the Board stating the amount
of funds collected and expended, and the status of any project authorized
to be funded from the tax proceeds. The Board will also appoint an
independent Citizens' Oversight Committee to provide oversight as to
expenditures of parcel tax revenues. The District will engage a third-party
independent auditor to conduct annual audits reviewing the revenues and
expenditures of the proposed tax to confirm that funds are spent for the
specified purposes.

Measure EE was placed on the ballot by the Board.

A "yes" vote is a vote to approve a parcel tax of $132 per parcel within
the District for nine years.

A "no" vote is a vote to not approve the proposed parcel tax.

James R. Williams
Acting County Counsel

By: Isl Danielle L. Goldstein
Deputy County Counsel

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE EE

INTRODUCTION

"To improve education and student achievement in
neighborhood schools by maintaining small class sizes; hiring,
retaining and training quality teachers; expanding science,
technology, engineering, math, language, art, and music
education; improving health, safety, security, and maintenance
services; and providing before-/after-school programs; shall
Oak Grove Elementary School District levy a parcel tax of
$132 per parcel for nine years providing $3.1 million annually,
exempting seniors, with annual audits, citizens' oversight, and
all funds used locally?"

PURPOSES

To provide local revenue that cannot be taken by the State and
to maintain high-quality public education in schools in the Oak Grove
School District (the "District"), the District proposes to levy and collect
an education parcel tax annually for 9 years as more fully described
below under "EDUCATION PARCEL TAX AND PROCEDURES," and
to implement accountability measures in connection with the education
parcel tax and to provide oversight and accountability to ensure that
funds are used only for the following specific purposes:

•	Maintain small class sizes

•	Hiring, retaining and training quality teachers

•	Expand science, technology, engineering, math, language, art
and music education

•	Improving health, safety, security and maintenance services

•	Provide before-/after-school programs for District students

The Board of Trustees will not fund any program other than those
listed above from the proceeds of the education parcel tax.

EDUCATION PARCEL TAX AND PROCEDURES

Amount of Education Parcel Tax. Subject to two-thirds approval
of the voters, the education parcel tax of $132 per parcel (except
exempt parcels, as described below) shall become effective for 9 years
commencing with fiscal year 2017-18 and be collected by the Santa Clara
County Tax Collector at the same time as and along with, and shall be
subject to the same penalties as general ad valorem taxes collected by
said tax collector.

Definition of Parcel. A parcel shall be defined as any unit of land in
the District that receives a separate tax bill from the Santa Clara County
Tax Collector.

Exemptions. The following exemptions shall apply to the levy of the
qualified special tax.

•	Otherwise Exempt Property. All property that would otherwise
be exempt from property taxes shall also be exempt from the
education parcel tax.

• Senior Citizen Exemption. An exemption shall be available to
persons who are 65 years or older and own and occupy as a
principal residence a parcel subject to the education parcel tax.

SC Ballot Type 000 - Page 00

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE EE-Continued

Property owners seeking the senior citizen exemption must apply
to the District for such exemption under procedures established by the
District or otherwise as required by law or by the Santa Clara County Tax
Collector.

Exclusive Procedures. The procedures described herein with respect
to the levy and collection of the education parcel tax and exemptions, and
any additional procedures established by the Board of Trustees of the
District, shall be the exclusive claims procedure for claimants seeking an
exemption, refund, reduction, or re-computation of the qualified special
tax. Whether any particular claim is to be resolved by the District or
by the County shall be determined by the District, in coordination with
the County as necessary. The District's Board of Trustees may adopt
such additional or supplemental procedures as it deems necessary or
convenient for the administration of the education parcel tax.

ACCOUNTABILITY MEASURES

Government Code Accountability. In accordance with the
requirements of California Government Code sections 50075.1 and
50075.3, the following accountability measures, among others, shall apply
to the qualified special taxes levied in accordance with this Measure:

•	the specific purposes of the education parcel tax shall be those
purposes identified above under the heading "PURPOSES,"

•	the proceeds of the education parcel tax shall be applied only
to those specific purposes identified above under the heading
"PURPOSES,"

•	a separate, special account shall be created into which the
proceeds of the education parcel tax must be deposited; and

•	the chief fiscal officer of the District shall file an annual written
report with the Board of Trustees of the District showing (1) the
amount of funds collected and expended from the proceeds
of the education parcel tax and (2) the status of any projects,
programs, or purposes identified above under the heading
"PURPOSES."

Citizens' Oversight Committee. In addition to the accountability
measures required by the Government Code, an independent Citizens'
Oversight Committee shall be appointed by the Board of Trustees to
advise the Board on the expenditures funded by the measure in order to
ensure that said funds are spent for the purposes approved by the voters.
The Citizens' Oversight Committee will monitor the expenditures of these
funds by the District and will report on an annual basis to the Board and
community on how these funds have been spent.

Annual Independent Audits. The District will engage a third party
independent auditor to conduct annual audits reviewing the revenues and
expenditures of the education parcel tax to confirm that funds are spent
for the purposes described in the measure.

PROTECTION OF FUNDING

Current law forbids any decrease in State or Federal funding to the
District because of the District's adoption of an education parcel tax.
However, if any such funds are reduced because of the adoption of this
education parcel tax, then the amount of the education parcel tax will be
reduced annually as necessary in order to restore such State or Federal
funding.

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE EE-Continued
SEVERABILITY

The Board of Trustees of the District hereby declares, and the
voters by approving this measure concur, that every section, paragraph,
sentence and clause of this measure has independent value, and the
Board of Trustees and the voters would have adopted each provision
hereof regardless of every other provision hereof. Upon approval of this
measure by the voters, should any part be found by a court of competent
jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, all remaining parts hereof shall
remain in full force and effect to the fullest extent allowed by law.

SC Ballot Type 000 - Page 00

	
ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE EE	REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE EE
Great schools make a difference!  Quality public schools are crucial to our community's health and quality of life. With seventeen of our schools having earned the prestigious California Distinguished School Award, Oak Grove School District is one of the top performing districts in the County.  Many of us grew up benefiting from an excellent public elementary school education. Your YES vote on Measure EE invests in providing those learning opportunities for today's children and future generations.  •	Great teachers are essential to a strong education. California is currently experiencing a teacher shortage crisis. Measure EE helps attract and retain high quality teachers for every classroom.  •	Studies show small class sizes lead to great gains in academic achievement. Measure EE maintains class sizes and creates better learning environments for students.  •	Today's students need to be prepared for tomorrow's jobs. Measure EE expands science, technology, engineering and math programs to give our students the academic background needed to thrive in Silicon Valley's economy.  •	Measure EE invests in improving health, student safety, security and maintenance services by providing enhanced supervision and safety at all schools.  •	Studies show students involved in arts and music programs score higher on SATs. Measure EE expands art and music programs at our schools.  Measure EE is a smart investment. High quality schools protect property values and provide for a strong community. It will cost homeowners only $11 a month, cannot increase over time, expires in 9 years, and allows for an exemption for senior citizens. Measure EE has built in taxpayer protections requiring an annual audit, citizen's oversight committee, and all funds must be spent locally.  Measure EE is our opportunity to ensure that our schools remain the pride of our neighborhoods where all of our children receive a world class education.  Our students deserve our support. Vote YES on Measure EE.  Isl Mark Lepori  Principal Santa Teresa Elementary OGSD  Isl Daniel L. Judnick Retired Teacher OGSD  Isl Dennis Hawkins  Oak Grove Board President  Isl Dominic Rizzi Acting President Oak Grove Educators Association  Isl Yvonne Campbell  District Advisory Council, President	In 2014, voters approved an $89,800,000 bond measure and now the District is back for more loot.  In 2010, voters approved a $68 parcel tax and now they want a whooping increase to $132 per parcel for 9 more years (double the previous parcel tax).  Accordina to the website: www.ed-data.ora. the district revenues for 2014-15 (latest figures available) were $98,410,216 and for 2013-14 school-year, revenues were $92,736,607.  That's a $5,673,609 jump in revenues in just one year. So, why do  they need to more than double the previous $68 parcel tax?  Answer: they don't.  They spent $8,592 per student per year in 2014/15; a $519 per student revenue increase year over year.  The district attendance has dropped by 676 students since the 2010-11 school year.  If they are already receiving and spending $519 per student more than last school year, why do they need more than a doubling of the $68 parcel tax?  Answer: they don't.  And that's on top of the $125,000,000 bond measure debt approved in 2008 and the $89,800,000 bond measure debt approved in 2014--NOT counting interest expense.  It's time we said no to the tax and spend special interest crowd and reject this parcel tax.  Just once, wouldn't you like to see a "temporary tax" actually
	expire?  More money spent on schools will NOT result in higher test scores, but will result in bigger bureaucracies and fatter pensions. Please vote NO on Measure EE.  For more information, visit www.SVTaxpavers.orq/2016-oak-arove- school-parcel-tax  Isl Mark W.A. Hinkle  President: Silicon Valley Taxpayers Association

SC Ballot Type 000 - Page 00

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE EE

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE EE

In 2014, voters approved a $89,800,000 bond measure and now the
District is coming back for more loot.

In 2010, voters approved a $68 parcel tax and now they're coming back
for a whooping increase to $132 per parcel for 9 more years. More than
double the previous parcel tax.

According to the web site: www.ed-data.org. the district revenues for
2014-15 (latest figures available) were $98,410,216 and for 2013-14
school-year, revenues were $92,736,607.

That's a $5,673,609 jump in revenues in just one year. So, why do

they need to more than double the previous $68 parcel tax?

Answer: they don't.

They are spending $8,592 per student per year in 2014/15 which is 98%
of the statewide average. That's a $519 per student revenue increase
year over year.

The district attendance has dropped by 676 students since the 2010-11
school year.

If they are already receiving and spending $519 per student more than
last school year, why do they need more than a doubling of the $68
parcel tax?

Answer: they don't.

And that's on top of the $125,000,000 bond measure debt approved in
2008 and the $89,800,000 bond measure debt approved in 2014--NOT
counting interest expense.

It's time we said no to the tax and spend special interest crowd and reject
this parcel tax.

Just once, wouldn't you like to see a "temporary tax" actually
expire?

More money spent on schools will NOT result in higher test scores, but
will result in bigger bureaucracies and fatter pensions. Please vote NO
on Measure EE.

For more information, visit www.SVTaxpavers.ora/2016-oak-arove-
school-parcel-tax

Isl Mark W.A. Hinkle

President: Silicon Valley Taxpayers Association

Don't be confused by the opponent of this measure who represents an
out of town special interest group which opposed every education related
measure on the June 2016 ballot. Don't be swayed by a group with no
stake in our children's futures.

As a resident in Oak Grove School District, you know our schools are the
pride of our community. That's why teachers, community leaders, and
parents agree that Measure EE gives our students the resources they
need to keep the Oak Grove School District as one of the top performing
districts in the County.

The Oak Grove School District is a good steward of our tax dollars. This
year the District refinanced its bonds saving taxpayers an expected
$40 million over time. Measure EE requires annual audits, citizen's
oversight, and all funds must be spent locally. Measure EE cannot
increase over time, expires in 9 years, and provides a senior citizen
exemption.

Voters did recently support a bond to make physical improvements to our
schools. However, Measure EE provides funds to operate our schools
and provide educational programs to support students and teachers.

Measure EE will:

•	attract and retain high quality teachers for every
classroom,

•	maintain class sizes and create better learning
environments for students,

•	expand science, technology, engineering and math
programs,

•	expand art and music programs,

•	improve health, student safety, security and maintenance
services at all schools.

High quality schools protect property values and provide for a
strong community, making Measure EE a smart investment in our
children and neighborhoods.

Join local teachers, community leaders and parents in voting YES on
Measure EE.

Isl Ash Kalra

Councilmember, District 2

Isl Emmanuel Barbara

Former Superintendent, Oak Grove SD

SC Ballot Type 000 - Page 00

RESOLUTION NO. 1228-08/16

BOARD OF TRUSTEES
OAK GROVE SCHOOL DISTRICT

RESOLUTION ORDERING AN ELECTION FOR THE PURPOSE OF SUBMITTING
TO THE QUALIFIED ELECTORS OF THE DISTRICT THE QUESTION OF
LEVYING AN EDUCATION PARCEL TAX UPON EACH PARCEL IN THE
DISTRICT FOR EDUCATIONAL PURPOSES AND ESTABLISHING THE
SPECIFICATIONS OF THE ELECTION ORDER

WHEREAS, the Oak Grove School District (the “District”) is devoted to providing high
quality public education for its students; and

WHEREAS, in order to maintain high quality education programs, the District has
determined that it is necessary to identify a local source of revenue; and

WHEREAS, Section 4 of Article XIIIA of the California Constitution and California
Government Code Sections 50079 et seq. and 50075 et seq. (the “Law”) authorize a school
district, upon approval by two-thirds (213) jaf the electorate voting on the measure, to levy a
qualified special tax for specified purposes following notice and a public hearing; and

WHEREAS, November 8, 2016 is an established election date and a statewide election
date pursuant to the provisions of the California Elections Code; and

WHEREAS, the Board has on this date held a public hearing, which was duly noticed,
where all interested persons have been heard on the matter of holding an election in the District
on the matter of levying a qualified special tax on each parcel in the District; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Trustees desires at this time to order an election to be held on
November 8, 2016 in the District for the purpose of submitting to the voters in the District the
matter of levying a qualified special tax on each parcel in the District pursuant to the Law for
educational purposes (sometimes referred to herein and in the exhibits attached hereto as an
“education parcel tax”) and to designate the specifications thereof, pursuant to Education Code
Section 5320 et seq. and to request consolidation with all other elections held in the District on
such date, and to request the Santa Clara County Registrar of Voters to perform election
services for the District; and

NOW, THEREFORE, THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE OAK GROVE SCHOOL
DISTRICT DOES HEREBY RESOLVE, ORDER AND DETERMINE AS FOLLOWS:

Section I. Call for Election. The Board hereby orders an election and submits to the
electors of the District the question of whether an education parcel tax shall be levied and
collected in the District for the specific purposes as set forth more fully in the ballot proposition
approved herein and as set forth on Exhibits A and B hereto. This Resolution constitutes the
order of the District to call such election and shall constitute the “specifications of the election
order” pursuant to Education Code Section 5322.

Section 2. Election Date. The date of the election shall be November 8, 2016, and the
election shall be held solely within the boundaries of the District, which have not changed since
the last District election.

Section 3. Purpose of Election; Ballot Proposition. The purpose of the election shall
be for the voters in the District to vote on a proposition, a full copy of which is attached hereto
and marked Exhibit “A”, containing the question of whether the District shall levy an education
parcel tax in the District for the specific purposes stated therein, together with the accountability
requirements of Government Code Section 50075.1. As required by Education Code Section
5322 and Elections Code Section 13247, the abbreviated form of the measure (75 words) to
appear on the ballot is attached hereto and marked as Exhibit ‘‘B". The Board of Trustees
hereby authorizes and directs the Superintendent or his designee to make any changes to the
text of the proposition as required, upon the advice of the District’s legal counsel, to conform to
any requirements of the Law or the Santa Clara County Registrar of Voters.

Section 4. Authority for Election. The authority for ordering the election is contained
in Section 4 of Article XIIIA of the California Constitution and California Government Code
Sections 50079 et seq. and 50075 et seq. The authority for the specification of this election
order is contained in Section 5322 of the Education Code.

Section 5. Type of Tax Rate, and Method of Collection. Said education parcel tax
shall be levied in an equal amount against each parcel of taxable real property in the District in
the amount of $132 per parcel for 9 years, commencing with fiscal year 2017-18.

A parcel shall be defined as any unit of land in the District that receives a separate tax
bill from the Santa Clara County Tax Collector, and shall be collected in the same manner and
subject to the same penalty or penalties as other taxes fixed and collected by the County on
behalf of the District.

Section 6. Exemptions. The following exemptions apply to the levy of the education
parcel tax:

(a)	Otherwise Exempt Property. All property that would otherwise be exempt from
property taxes shall also be exempt from the education parcel tax.

(b)	Senior Citizen Exemption. An exemption shall be available to persons who are 65
years or older and own and occupy as a principal residence a parcel (as defined in Section 5
above) and apply to the District for such exemption under procedures established by the District
or otherwise as required by law or by the Santa Clara County Tax Collector.

Section 7. Accountability Requirements.

(a)	Government Code 50075.1 Requirements. The members of the Board, the
Superintendent and officers of the District are hereby directed, individually and collectively, to
comply with the accountability measures pursuant to Government Code Section 50075.1 that
include, but are not limited, to the following: (a) the measure shall include a statement
indicating the specific purposes of the education parcel tax, (b) the measure shall require that
the proceeds of the education parcel tax be applied only to the specific purposes identified in
the ballot measure, (c) the measure shall require the creation of an account into which the
proceeds of the education parcel tax shall be deposited, and (d) the measure shall require that
the District prepare, or cause to be prepared by a third party auditor in accordance with Section
7(c) below, an annual report pursuant to Government Code Section 50075.3 as provided in
Section 8 hereof. Such accountability measures shall be set forth on the ballot in the form of
Exhibit A attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference.

(b)	Citizens’ Oversight Committee. In addition, the governing board of the District will
appoint a Citizens’ Oversight Committee with responsibility to review the expenditures of the
District from the education parcel tax to ensure the proceeds of the education parcel tax are
expended for the specific purposes set forth in the measure, and to provide an annual report to
the District and the public concerning the expenditure of the proceeds of the education parcel
tax. The governing board of the District, if the measure is successful, will adopt bylaws
governing the administration of the Citizens’ Oversight Committee.

(c)	Annual Independent Audits. The District will engage a third party independent
auditor to conduct annual audits reviewing the revenues and expenditures of the education
parcel tax to confirm that funds are spent for the purposes described in the measure.

Section 8. Annual Report. Pursuant to Government Code Section 50075.3, the Board
directs the chief fiscal officer of the District to file a report with the Board each year containing
(a) the amount of education parcel tax funds collected and expended and (b) the status of any
project required or authorized to be funded from the proceeds of the education parcel tax as
identified in the measure.

Section 9. Delivery of this Resolution. The Clerk of the Board is hereby directed to
send a copy of this Resolution for receipt no later than 88 days prior to the November 8, 2016
election date, as follows:

(a)	County Elections Officer (as required pursuant to Education Code Section
5322 and Elections Code Section 10403),

(b)	County Board of Supervisors (as required pursuant to Elections Code
Section 10403), and

(c)	County Superintendent of Schools for the purposes of noticing the
election on the measure pursuant to Education Code Section 5325(a).

Section 10. Consolidation of Election. The County Elections Officer and the Santa
Clara County Board of Supervisors are hereby requested to consolidate the election ordered
hereby with any and all other elections to be held on November 8, 2016, within the District. The
District acknowledges that the election shall be held and conducted in accordance with
Elections Code Section 10418. Pursuant to Section 5303 of the Education Code and Section

-3-

10002 of the Elections Code, the Board of Supervisors of Santa Clara County is requested to
permit the County Registrar to render all services specified by Section 10418 of the Elections
Code relating to the election, for which services the District agrees to reimburse Santa Clara
County in full from District general funds upon presentation of a bill from the County, such
services to include the publication of notices of election and the mailing of the sample ballot.

Section 11. Ballot Arguments. As provided in Elections Code Section 9501, any and
all members of this Board are hereby authorized to act as an author of any ballot argument
prepared in connection with the election, including a rebuttal argument. The Superintendent,
President of the Board, or their designees, are hereby authorized to execute any document and
to perform all acts necessary to place the measure on the ballot.

Section 12. Notice of Election. That the County Elections Officer is hereby requested
to prepare a formal Notice of Election in time, form and manner as required by law, and the
County Superintendent of Schools is hereby requested to post such notice in accordance with
Education Code Section 5325. The suggested form of notice of the election is as follows:

OAK GROVE SCHOOL DISTRICT
ELECTION NOTICE

NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN to the qualified electors of
the Oak Grove School District (the "District") of Santa
Clara County, that in accordance with law, an election will
be held on Tuesday, the 8th of November, 2016 in the
District, at which election there will be submitted the
question of levying an education parcel tax of $132 per
parcel annually for 9 years, exempting seniors, with
citizens’ oversight and annual audits, for the purpose of
raising money to pay educational costs.

Section 13. Reimbursement for Services Performed. The Oak Grove School District
agrees to reimburse the County Elections Officer/Registrar of Voters for services performed with
respect to the election called herein following completion of such services and upon
presentation of a bill.

Section 14. Legal Services. The Board retains the firm of Jones Hall, A Professional
Law Corporation as Legal Counsel in connection with its parcel tax proceedings. The Assistant
Superintendent, Business Services, is authorized to execute a supplement to the District’s
existing agreement with Jones Hall providing for legal services rendered in connection with the
proceedings described herein.

Section 15. Election Pursuant to Law. In all particulars not recited in this Resolution,
said election shall be held and conducted as provided by law for holding school district elections
in the District.

Section 16. Certification by Clerk of the Board. That the Clerk of the Board shall
certify to the passage and adoption of and shall make minutes of the passage and adoption
therefore in the records of the proceedings of the Board of Trustees of the District, in the
minutes of the meeting at which the same is passed and adopted.

Section 17. Effective Date. This resolution shall take effect on and after its adoption.

The foregoing Resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Oak Grove
School District of Santa Clara County, being the Board authorized by law to make the
designations therein contained by the following vote, on August 2, 2016.

Adopted by the following votes:

AYES:

NOES:

ABSENT:

ABSTAIN:

Member Adams,

None

None

None

Nishihara, Bauer, Noel and Hawkins



Attest:

President of the Board

EXHIBIT A

BALLOT MEASURE
FULL TEXT OF MEASURE

/introduction

“To improve education and student achievement in neighborhood schools by
maintaining small class sizes; hiring, retaining and training quality teachers;
expanding science, technology, engineering, math, language, art, and music
education; improving health, safety, security, and maintenance services; and
providing before-/after-school programs; shall Oak Grove Elementary School
District levy a parcel tax of $132 per parcel for nine years providing $3.1 million
annually, exempting seniors, with annual audits, citizens’ oversight, and all funds
used locally?”

PURPOSES

To provide local revenue that cannot be taken by the State and to maintain high-quality
public education in schools in the Oak Grove School District (the "District”), the District
proposes to levy and collect an education parcel tax annually for 9 years as more fully described
below under “EDUCATION PARCEL TAX AND PROCEDURES,” and to implement
accountability measures in connection with the education parcel tax and to provide oversight
and accountability to ensure that funds are used only for the following specific purposes:

•	Maintain small class sizes

•	Hiring, retaining and training quality teachers

•	Expand science, technology, engineering, math, language, art and music
education

•	Improving health, safety, security and maintenance services

•	Provide before-/after-school programs for District students

The Board of Trustees will not fund any program other than those listed above from the
proceeds of the education parcel tax.

EDUCATION PARCEL TAX AND PROCEDURES

Amount of Education Parcel Tax. Subject to two-thirds approval of the voters, the
education parcel tax of $132 per parcel (except exempt parcels, as described below) shall
become effective for 9 years commencing with fiscal year 2017-18 and be collected by the
Santa Clara County Tax Collector at the same time as and along with, and shall be subject to
the same penalties as general ad valorem taxes collected by said tax collector.

Definition of Parcel. A parcel shall be defined as any unit of land in the District that
receives a separate tax bill from the Santa Clara County Tax Collector.

Exhibit A-1

Exemptions. The following exemptions shall apply to the levy of the qualified special tax.

•	Otherwise Exempt Property. All property that would otherwise be exempt
from property taxes shall also be exempt from the education parcel tax.

•	Senior Citizen Exemption. An exemption shall be available to persons who
are 65 years or older and own and occupy as a principal residence a parcel
subject to the education parcel tax.

Property owners seeking the senior citizen exemption must apply to the District for such
exemption under procedures established by the District or otherwise as required by law or by
the Santa Clara County Tax Collector.

Exclusive Procedures. The procedures described herein with respect to the levy and
collection of the education parcel tax and exemptions, and any additional procedures
established by the Board of Trustees of the District, shall be the exclusive claims procedure for
claimants seeking an exemption, refund, reduction, or re-computation of the qualified special
tax. Whether any particular claim is to be resolved by the District or by the County shall be
determined by the District, in coordination with the County as necessary. The District’s Board of
Trustees may adopt such additional or supplemental procedures as it deems necessary or
convenient for the administration of the education parcel tax.

ACCOUNTABILITY MEASURES

Government Code Accountability. In accordance with the requirements of California
Government Code sections 50075.1 and 50075.3, the following accountability measures,
among others, shall apply to the qualified special taxes levied in accordance with this Measure:

•	the specific purposes of the education parcel tax shall be those purposes
identified above under the heading “PURPOSES,”

•	the proceeds of the education parcel tax shall be applied only to those
specific purposes identified above under the heading “PURPOSES,”

•	a separate, special account shall be created into which the proceeds of the
education parcel tax must be deposited; and

•	the chief fiscal officer of the District shall file an annual written report with the
Board of Trustees of the District showing (1) the amount of funds collected
and expended from the proceeds of the education parcel tax and (2) the
status of any projects, programs, or purposes identified above under the
heading “PURPOSES.”

Citizens’ Oversight Committee. In addition to the accountability measures required by
the Government Code, an independent Citizens’ Oversight Committee shall be appointed by the
Board of Trustees to advise the Board on the expenditures funded by the measure in order to
ensure that said funds are spent for the purposes approved by the voters. The Citizens’
Oversight Committee will monitor the expenditures of these funds by the District and will report
on an annual basis to the Board and community on how these funds have been spent.

Exhibit A-2

Annual Independent Audits. The District will engage a third party independent auditor to
conduct annual audits reviewing the revenues and expenditures of the education parcel tax to
confirm that funds are spent for the purposes described in the measure.

PROTECTION OF FUNDING

Current law forbids any decrease in State or Federal funding to the District because of
the District’s adoption of an education parcel tax. However, if any such funds are reduced
because of the adoption of this education parcel tax, then the amount of the education parcel
tax will be reduced annually as necessary in order to restore such State or Federal funding.

SEVERABILITY

The Board of Trustees of the District hereby declares, and the voters by approving this
measure concur, that every section, paragraph, sentence and clause of this measure has
independent value, and the Board of Trustees and the voters would have adopted each
provision hereof regardless of every other provision hereof. Upon approval of this measure by
the voters, should any part be found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any
reason, all remaining parts hereof shall remain in full force and effect to the fullest extent
allowed by \aw/

Exhibit A-3

EXHIBIT B

BALLOT MEASURE
ABBREVIATED FORM*

“To improve education and student achievement in neighborhood schools by maintaining
small class sizes; hiring, retaining and training quality teachers; expanding science,
technology, engineering, math, language, art, and music education; improving health,
safety, security, and maintenance services; and providing before-/after-school programs;
shall Oak Grove Elementary School District levy a parcel tax of $132 per parcel for nine
years providing $3.1 million annually, exempting seniors, with annual audits, citizens’
oversight, and all funds used locally?”

'^ 2.

*Limited to 75 words

Exhibit B-1