BALLOT MEASURE SUBMITTAL FORM

Jurisdiction Name: City of Hayward	Election Date: November 8, 2016
BALLOT TITLE & QUESTION TO BE PRINTED	

Note: The information as it appears within the text boxes will be printed on the ballot. The 75 word count limit begins
in the ballot title (if a title is provided); otherwise, the count begins in the ballot question.

Insert Ballot Title here (if applicable):

Insert Ballot Question here:

To assure local control and close on-going deficits, shall the City of Hayward be authorized to
enact a general tax ordinance not exceeding 15% of gross sales for all products associated with
medical or adult use of cannabis, from cultivation, distribution, manufacturing, and retailing of
i cannabis or products derived therefrom, if the City of Hayward permits cannabis business
activities, such tax to be in addition to any other taxes imposed by the City of Hayward or the
State of California?

TYPE OF MEASURE

PERCENTAGE NEEDED TO PASS

IKI Regular Measure EH Parcel Tax
EH Bond Measure EH Charter Amendment

IK 50%+ 1	□	66.6667%	□	2/3

□ Other:

FULL TEXT OPTION

Full Text to be printed in the Voter Information Pamphlet

EH YES (note: must submit separate copy of Full Text along with this form)

EH NO - A Full Text was not submitted

K NO — Do not print, but it's available to the public at: http://www.hayward-ca.gov/your-government/elections/ballot-measures

AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE

The authorized representative/contact person should be the person who will be receiving the typeset proofs

Print Name: Miriam Lens

Signature

Date:

CONTACT INFORMATION (for office use)

CONTACT INFORMATION (forpublic)

Phone #: I

Phone #: (510)583-4400

E-Mail]

E-Mail:	Miriam.lens@hayward-ca.gov

Webs ite: http://www. hayward-ca.gov/yo u r-
government/elections/bailot-measures

CITY ATTORNEY'S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF
MEASURE _

The Hayward City Council has placed a measure on the November 8, 2016 ballot, asking voters to
authorize the enactment of a general tax on the adult use of recreational cannabis, i.e. marijuana, and
medical cannabis. If passed by a simple majority of the voters voting on the measure, the City would be
authorized to enact an ordinance imposing a tax not exceeding fifteen percent (15%) of gross sales of
adult use of recreational and medical cannabis. As stated in the ballot question, the tax, if enacted,
would apply to the cultivation, distribution, manufacturing, business-to-business sales, as well as retail
sales.

Generally, businesses engaged in supplying cannabis to other businesses or businesses engaged in the
retail sale of adult use recreational or medical cannabis to customers would be required to collect the tax
from other businesses or customers as part of their gross sales. Gross sales and taxes would be reported
to the California State Board of Equalization, which in turn would remit the cannabis tax revenue to the
City of Hayward.

The cannabis tax, if enacted, is intended to aid in the alleviation of the City of Hayward's ongoing general
fund operating deficit, as set forth in the resolution adopting the ballot question. The resolution further
contains findings of a fiscal emergency, as required for a general tax to be submitted to the electorate at
a special municipal election. Revenue from the tax would be deposited in the City's general fund and
could be used for any valid municipal purpose, including police and fire services, paramedic services,
youth and anti-gang programs, disaster preparedness, economic development, street repairs and
maintenance, graffiti removal, and code enforcement.

The Hayward tax ordinance could be enacted only if adult use of recreational cannabis is legalized in the
State of California. For example, Proposition 64 on the November 8, 2016 statewide general election
ballot presents the question of whether adult use of recreational cannabis should be permitted in the
State. If Proposition 64 passes and if this Hayward City Council-sponsored measure also passes, the
Hayward City Council would be authorized to enact a comprehensive ordinance that imposes the cannabis
tax. This measure, if adopted, does not mean the City Council is required to enact such ordinance - it
simply means the City Council would retain local control in deciding whether to enact a tax ordinance
after considering the positive and negative factors of allowing adult recreational cannabis businesses and
medical cannabis vendors in the City of Hayward.

The fifteen percent (15%) tax is the maximum tax that could be imposed on cannabis businesses. The
City Council could impose a lower tax. However, the cannabis tax would be in addition to any other sales
or transactions tax imposed by the City of Hayward, the State of California or any other taxing agency.

A 'yes' vote on the measure means the voter is in favor of authorizing the City to enact a cannabis tax
ordinance. A 'no' vote means the voter is not in favor of authorizing the City to enact a cannabis tax
ordinance.

S/MICHAEL S. LAWSON
City Attorney, City of Hayward

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure _. If you desire a copy of documents related to
the measure, please contact the City Clerk's Office at (510) 583-4400 and a copy will be mailed at no cost
to you. You may also access more information about the measure on the City of Hayward website at the
following address: http://www.hayward-ca.gov/your-government/elections/ballot-measures

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE

This Measure is intended to protect local control. Proposition 64, a state ballot initiative, seeks to
legalize the adult use of marijuana and applies state taxes to the cultivation and retail sales of cannabis.
While Proposition 64 appears to allow for local municipal taxes on the adult use of marijuana, there is
no clearly stated guarantee that cities like Hayward will be allowed to impose any tax once the measure
is passed and becomes law.

Measure _, a local Hayward measure, does not approve the cultivation, production, or retail sales of
cannabis within the City of Hayward. It simply preserves the right of our community to apply a local tax
to cover local costs should the Council of the City of Hayward ever approve the adult use of cannabis in
the future within the city limits of Hayward. All revenue would remain local and could not be taken by
the State.

Measure _ does not establish a specific tax rate on cannabis. It only establishes a maximum tax rate
should our community approve cannabis cultivation, production or sales in the future. It preserves local
control and local flexibility to assure that the City has the financial resources to manage cannabis-related
issues when and if the community chooses to allow processing or sales of adult use cannabis.

If we do not pass this Measure, our community may lose our right to tax cannabis. It is essential that we
be able to generate the necessary revenue to support effective control, education and enforcement
policies and procedures to assure the safety of our community. Passing Measure _ preserves the critical
ability of our City to generate revenue that will stay local and assure community safety in the future. We
urge you to vote Yes on Measure _.

s/BARBARA H ALU DAY
Mayor, City of Hayward
s/SARA LAMNIN
Hayward Council Member
s/ELISA MARQUEZ
Hayward Council Member
s/AL MENDALL
Hayward Council Member
s/MARK SALINAS
Hayward Council Member