Ballot question

The following question appeared on the ballot:[2]

To repair local streets/sidewalks; retain/hire firefighters/paramedics;
increase sheriffs staffing to improve response times; expand gang/drug
prevention, economic development and youth job training programs;
improve parks; and provide other general fund services in Compton, shall
an ordinance be adopted to increase the sales tax by one percent on an
ongoing basis to raise approximately $7 million in local annual funding,
requiring citizens’ oversight?[3]

Impartial analysis

The following impartial analysis of the measure was prepared by the office of
the Compton City Attorney:

The City of Compton Vital City Services and Neighborhood Protection
Ballot Measure asks the voters of the City of Compton to approve a
transactions and use tax ordinance (the “sales tax ordinance”) that would
increase the City’s existing sales tax rate by 1.0% or one cent for every
dollar of taxable sales of goods in the City, and on the taxable storage,
use or consumption in the City of goods purchased. The total sales tax
rate currently paid in the City of Compton, which also includes the sales
tax rate collected for the State of California and the County of Los
Angeles, is 9%. If the Measure is approved by the voters, the total sales
tax rate in the City will increase to 10%.

The proposed tax is a general tax. The tax revenues will be deposited in
the City’s general fund and may be used for any municipal purpose. The
City Council declared a fiscal emergency and unanimously voted to place
this sales tax measure on the ballot at a special election of the City in
order to fund public services such as to repair/reconstruct local
streets/sidewalks, retain/hire firefighters/paramedics, increase sheriff’s
staffing to improve response times, expand gang/drug prevention,
economic development and youth job training programs, improve parks ai
well as other general City services. It is estimated by the City’s Controller
that this measure will raise approximately $7 million per year in general
fund revenue for the City.

The tax is subject to an independent annual financial audit that will review
whether the tax is collected, managed and expended in accordance with
the requirements of the proposed ordinance. In addition, the sales tax
ordinance requires the City Council to establish an independent Compton
Taxpayers Committee to review the expenditure of the revenues raised
the proposed tax.

If adopted by the voters, the tax would be in effect on an ongoing basis.

A full copy of the text of the sales tax ordinance is printed in these ballot
materials.

Article XIIIC of the California Constitution, commonly known as Prop. 218,
requires that the proposed tax be approved by a majority of the voters
voting on the ballot measure. A “yes” vote on the Measure enacts the
sales tax ordinance.

A “no” vote will result in the tax not being adopted.[3]

■Compton City Attorneys