Official Use Only: Date Stamp

BALLOT MEASURE SUBMITTAL FORM

Jurisdiction Namei^U^gpy	Election Date: November 8, 2016
BALLOT TITLE & QUESTION TO BE PRINTED	

Note: The information as it appears within the text boxes will be printed on the ballot. The 75 word count limit begins

in the ballot title (if a title is provided); otherwise, the count begins in the ballot question.
Insert Ballot Title here (if applicable):

Insert Ballot Question here:

To repair and upgrade aging and deteriorating public sidewalks and remove obstructions so that
Albany sidewalks are safe and accessible by pedestrians, including people with disabilities that
affect mobility, shall the City of Albany enact a special parcel tax ($38.65 annually for most
single-family parcels, other parcel types at specified rates) for 10 years providing approximately
$203,000 annually, with annual public reports and all proceeds to be spent in Albany?

TYPE OF MEASURE			PERCENTAGE NEEDED TO PASS	
EH Regular Measure EH Bond Measure	□ m	Parcel Tax Charter Amendment	□	50%+1  □	Other:	□ 66.6667%

FULL TEXT OPTION

Full Text to be printed in the Voter Information Pamphlet:

H YES (note: must submit separate copy of Full Text along with this form)

□	NO - A Full Text was not submitted

□	NO - Do not print, but it’s available to the public at:

S 2/3

AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE

The authorized representative/contact person should be the person who will be receiving the typeset proofs

Print Name:

Signature:

Date:

CONTACT INFORMATION (for office use)
Phone

E-Mail:

CONTACT INFORMATION (forpublic)_._.

phone 51Q-528-5722____________

E-Man: nalmaguer@albanyca.qr9
Websl,e: www.albanyca.org

CITY ATTORNEY'S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE

The City Council has placed before the voters the question whether to approve an ordinance
enacting a temporary tax on all developed property within the City of Albany to fund repairing
and upgrading public sidewalks and removing obstructions to improve safety and accessibility for
pedestrians, including people with disabilities. A full copy of the ordinance text is printed in these
ballot materials.

Currently, the City does not have a dedicated revenue source to fund regular repairs and
upgrades for public sidewalks. Sidewalk work is paid for out of the City's General Fund and
competes with other funding priorities.

On June 20, 2016, the City Council adopted a new Sidewalk Policy. The Albany Municipal Code
makes property owners responsible for the maintenance of the sidewalks next to their property.
Under the new Sidewalk Policy, the City will take responsibility for making repairs and upgrades
to existing sidewalks and for removing safety hazards and mobility obstructions. The long-term
maintenance obligation will remain with property owners. The City will prioritize sidewalk work
annually.

The proposed tax on developed property within Albany would fund sidewalk work. Authorized
uses of tax proceeds include sidewalk maintenance and obstruction removal, which are defined
in the ordinance to include "repairing and upgrading public sidewalks and removing obstructions
to improve safety and accessibility" as well as a non-exclusive list of types of sidewalk work. Work
funded by the tax would be consistent with the Sidewalk Policy, which is incorporated into the
ordinance, as it may be amended from time to time by the City Council. Because this measure
legally restricts the use of tax revenue to sidewalk maintenance and obstruction removal, it is
classified as a "special tax."

The proposed tax would be a flat amount annually that varies with the size and type of property.
The rate would be $38.65 annually for a typical single-family lot between 2,500 and 5,000 square
feet. The rate would be $27.60 for a single-family parcel under 2,500 square feet and $49.69 for
a single-family parcel over 5,000 square feet. The rate for an apartment, condominium, or
townhouse would be $15.46 annually per residential unit. The rate for a nonresidential parcel
would range from $49.69 to $88.50 annually, depending on the parcel size. Rates would be
adjusted annually for inflation. The tax would be collected by Alameda County with regular
property taxes.

The tax would remain in effect for 10 years.

All revenue from the tax would be placed into a special account and restricted to sidewalk
maintenance and obstruction removal and related administrative costs. The City's chief financial
officer is required to prepare and submit to the City Council an annual public report regarding
the tax funds collected and expended, as well as any other information required by state law.

A "Yes" vote is a vote in favor of the tax. A "No" vote is a vote against the tax. This measure will
be approved if at least two-thirds of the votes cast on it are "Yes" votes.

DATED: July 22, 2016

Craig Labadie, City Attorney

Ballot Argument in Favor of Measure PI

One reason Albany is a great place to live is its walkability — the fact that it is so easy to get around without a
car. But our sidewalks are crumbling and poorly lit, posing hazards for youth, seniors, people with disabilities,
and all residents who walk, run, and roll through town. Albany's walkability is a valuable asset to the entire
community that we cannot take for granted.

Broken sidewalks present dangerous, and even impassable conditions in many locations. Bryan's daughter
broke her wrist scootering between her home near Albany Hill and Marin Elementary School. Ann, who uses a
wheelchair to get around, can't easily visit her neighbors only a couple blocks from home because of the
condition of the sidewalk. Laurie tripped and broke her elbow, requiring surgery and six months of rehab. Too
many residents have stories like these.

Sidewalk maintenance is and will remain the legal responsibility of adjacent property owners, but very few are
making the investment. The City Council has taken action to address this problem, and is requesting a YES vote
to complete their plan. This small parcel tax, assessed based on a property's square footage, will enable the
city to address the backlog of repairs over the next decade, fixing the most severe problems first. Citizens will
help prioritize areas for action through public hearings.

Great sidewalks benefit our whole community with more vibrant public spaces that are safe, beautiful, and a
pleasure to use. They will improve access to Albany's businesses and increase neighborhood desirability. For
many residents safe sidewalks are also essential for their wellbeing and ability to get where they need to go.

By each paying a little, we can get this done together. Vote YES to save our sidewalks!

Peggy McQuaid, Vice Mayor
Ann Freeman, Albany resident

Jennifer Hansen-Romero, Albany resident and Realtor at Daniel Winkler + Assoc.
Robert del Rosario, Traffic and Safety Commission Chair

Ron Rosenbaum, President, AUSD Board of Education; former Principal of Albany High School

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE

ORDINANCE NO. 2016-03

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF ALBANY ENACTING A
SPECIAL PARCEL TAX TO FUND
REPAIRING AND UPGRADING PUBLIC SIDEWALKS AND REMOVING
OBSTRUCTIONS TO IMPROVE SAFETY AND ACCESSIBILITY

WHEREAS, Albany residents have identified safe, passable sidewalks as an important aspect
of quality of life and a high priority for investment by the City to ensure that pedestrians, including
individuals with disabilities that affect mobility, are able to move safely through the City without
using cars; and

WHEREAS, the City of Albany—like all California cities—has faced decreasing revenues to
make essential infrastructure investments, resulting in deferred maintenance to many public
facilities, including sidewalks; and

WHEREAS, without a dedicated source of additional funding to invest in deferred
maintenance to Albany’s public sidewalks, the City would be unable to address in a timely way
needed repairs and upgrades to its sidewalks or to remove obstructions to improve safety and
accessibility; and

WHEREAS, delaying maintenance and repairs to Albany’s sidewalks increases the
replacement costs in the long-run, and the City is committed to repairing our deteriorating
sidewalks before the costs become more expensive in the future; and

WHEREAS, with a dedicated source of funding to address needed sidewalk repairs and
upgrades, the City would be able to accelerate urgent work to improve the safety and quality of

Albany’s sidewalks, avoiding the steeper costs of deferring the work later. Repairing and
upgrading Albany’s sidewalks and removing mobility obstacles will improve opportunities for
residents and visitors to safely use alternative modes of transit to get around the City to play, work,
and shop; and

WHEREAS, this ordinance would create a guaranteed source of local funding for Albany’s
public sidewalks that must be spent locally for Albany residents; and

WHEREAS, the City of Albany acknowledges the benefits and value to the public health and
welfare of reducing vehicle miles traveled within the community by improving pedestrian
facilities; and

WHEREAS, in 2010, the City approved a Climate Action Plan, which included a vision for
an interconnected transportation system and land use pattern that shifts travel from autos to
walking, biking, and public transit; and

WHEREAS, Climate Action Plan Measure TL 1.3: call for implement of improvements to
encourage walking in the community by eliminating obstacles such as deteriorated sidewalks; and

WHEREAS, in 2012, the City approved an Active Transportation Plan that includes a detailed
strategy to encourage pedestrian travel throughout the City. A key part of this strategy is improving
the safety and convenience of pedestrian facilities; and

WHEREAS, in April 2016, the City adopted an updated General Plan that includes a variety
of polies that will lead to improvements to sidewalks; and

WHEREAS, General Plan Policy T-2.10 calls for the City to establish reliable and sustained
funding sources to ensure maintenance of transportation facilities including sidewalks; and

WHEREAS, General Plan Policy T-3.6: calls for priority walking corridors to be identified
and targeted for sidewalk improvements including maintenance; and

WHEREAS, in light of the foregoing benefits and considerations, the City wishes to improve
its commitment to pedestrian sidewalks; and

WHEREAS, the proposed special tax to be submitted to the voters is authorized by Article
X1IIA of the California Constitution and Section 50075 of the California Government. It will be
approved if two-thirds of voters voting on the measure vote in favor of it.

NOW THEREFORE, THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF ALBANY DO ORDAIN AS
FOLLOWS:

Section 1.	Article 4-14 is hereby added to Chapter IV of the Albany Municipal Code, to read

as follows:

4-14 SAFE AND ACCESSIBLE SIDEWALKS SPECIAL PARCEL TAX

4-14.1	TITLE. This Article shall be known as the “City of Albany Safe and Accessible

Sidewalks Special Parcel Tax.”

4-14.2 DEFINITIONS.

A.	“City” means the City of Albany.

B.	“Consumer Price Index” or “CPI” means Consumer Price Index for All Urban
Consumers (CPI-U) for San Francisco-Oakland-San Jose as published by the U.S. Department of

Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics. If the Consumer Price Index is discontinued or revised, such
other government index or computation with which it is replaced shall be used in order to obtain
substantially the same result as would be obtained if the Consumer Price Index had not been
discontinued or revised.

C.	“Condominium/Townhouse” means an undivided interest in common in a portion of real
property coupled with a separate interest in space called a unit. A condominium or townhouse unit
is a parcel.

D.	“Multi-family residential parcel” means all parcels that are improved with more than one
residential unit.

E.	“Nonresidential parcel” means all parcels that are improved with uses other than
residences.

F.	“Owner” means the owner or owners of the real property located within the City.

G.	“Parcel” means any real property designated by an assessor’s parcel map and parcel
number and carried on the secured property tax roll of the County of Alameda .

H.	“Sidewalk maintenance and obstruction removal” means repairing and upgrading public
sidewalks and removing obstructions to improve safety and accessibility, and includes but is not
limited to the following:

1.	Relocation of shallow utility lines located within area of sidewalk repair;

2.	Grinding of stumps of removed trees;

3.	Replacement of soil or mulch in landscape strips as necessary to avoid a hazardous
condition;

4.	Repair of private driveways if necessary to maintain functionality of the existing
driveway;

5.	Funding for expedited repairs in locations with occupants that have special access
needs (e.g., limited mobility, special events, etc.); and

6.	Extending the length of a sidewalk to be repaired beyond the area of immediate
hazard in order that the repaired sidewalk can tie into an existing sidewalk in
relatively good condition.

7.	Lighting repairs and improvements to enhance pedestrian safety.

I.	“Single-family residential parcel” means all parcels which are improved with only one
residential unit.

J.	“Special tax” means the special tax imposed by this Article.

4-14.3 TAX IMPOSED.

A.	An annual special tax in the amounts set forth in Section 4-14.4 is hereby imposed on
every parcel of real property within the City.

B.	The special tax constitutes a debt owed by the owner of each parcel of real property to
the City.

C.	The special tax shall be levied and collected on each parcel of real property within the
City for which the owner receives a separate ad valorem property tax bill, at the same time and
manner, and subject to the same penalties and procedures as ad valorem property taxes collected
by the County of Alameda except as otherwise set forth in this Article.

D.	Real property otherwise wholly exempted from ad valorem tax by state law shall also be
exempted from any liability for the special tax.

E.	Single-family residential parcels and units on multi-family residential parcels shall be
exempt from the special tax if they are owned and occupied by a person or persons whose
combined family income from all sources for the previous calendar year is at or below the income
level qualifying as "low income" for a family of such size under Section 8 of the United States
Housing Act of 1937,42 U.S.C.A. Sections 1437 et seq. for each year. A qualified owner or owners
must file an application for the exemption with the City no later than May 1 annually.

4-14.4 TAX RATES.

A.	The rates of the special tax for each parcel type shall be as set forth in the table below.

Parcel Type	Size of Parcel (square feet)	Rate, per parcel or unit
Single-family Residential	0-2,500	$27.60 per parcel
	2,501-5,000	$38.65 per parcel
	Over 5,000	$49.69 per parcel
Condominium/T o wnhouse	Not Applicable	$15.46 per unit
Multi-family Residential	Not Applicable	$15.46 per unit
Nonresidential	0-5,000	$49.69 per parcel
	5,001 - 10,000	$71.88 per parcel
	10,001 -20,000	$77.29 per parcel
	20,001 AND ABOVE	$88.50 per parcel

B.	The tax rate schedule in the table above shall apply beginning January 1, 2017 and
ending December 31, 2017. To keep the tax on each property in constant first year dollars for each
year subsequent to 2017, the tax per year shall be adjusted as set forth in this section to reflect any
increase in the Consumer Price Index beyond the first fiscal year the tax is levied. The tax rate per
year on each parcel for each year subsequent to the first year shall be an amount determined as
follows:

Tax rate for	=	Tax	rate for	X	Change in Consumer Price Index from

the current	the	preceding	April of the immediately preceding year

year	year	to April of the current year or 1.02,

whichever is less

In no event shall the special tax rate for any type of parcel for any year be less than the amount
established for the preceding year.

C.	If a parcel consists of both residential and nonresidential real property, the tax rate shall
be the rate for nonresidential parcels.

D.	The assessment roll data of the Alameda County Tax Assessor as of January 1 of each
year and City records shall be used to determine the actual use of each parcel of real property for
purposes of determining the amount of the special tax for each parcel.

E.	For parcels divided by Tax Rate Area lines, the amount of the special tax for the portion
of the parcel within Alameda County shall be calculated at the same rates as set forth above. For
properties wholly within Alameda County and divided by Tax Rate Area lines into multiple
parcels, the property shall be taxed as a single parcel at the rates set forth above.

4-14.5 COLLECTION OF TAX. The special tax shall be collected in the same manner
as ordinary ad valorem taxes are collected and shall have the same lien priority and be subject to
the same penalties and the same procedure and sale in cases of delinquency as provided for ad
valorem taxes collected by the County of Alameda. The City Council may provide for other
alternative methods of collection of the special tax by resolution.

4-14.6. COLLECTION OF UNPAID TAX. The amount of the special tax, any penalty,
and any interest imposed under the provisions of this Article shall be deemed a debt to the City.
Any person owing money under the provisions of this Article shall be personally liable to an action
brought in the name of the City, at its option, for the recovery for such amount.

4-14.7 USE OF TAX REVENUE.

A.	Revenue from the special tax, including penalties and interest thereon, shall be used for
sidewalk maintenance and obstruction removal, including but not limited to repairing and
upgrading public sidewalks and removing obstructions to improve safety and accessibility,
consistent with the Sidewalk Repair Policy adopted by the City Council. The currently approved
Sidewalk Repair Policy is attached as Exhibit A. The City Council may amend the Sidewalk Repair
Policy from time to time in its discretion, which changes shall be incorporated into this Article. In
no case, however, shall changes to Sidewalk Repair Policy authorize the use of special tax revenue
for projects unrelated to repairing and upgrading public sidewalks and removing obstructions from
public sidewalks to improve safety and accessibility or for other purposes authorized in this
Article.

B.	At the City Council’s discretion, revenue from the special tax, including penalties and
interest thereon, may also be used to pay for the costs of holding an election to seek voter approval

of this Article, for the costs of administering the special tax, and for the costs of defending the
special tax and this Article, including attorneys’ fees and related costs.

4-14.8 ACCOUNTABILITY. In accordance with the requirements of California
Government Code Sections 50075.1 and 50075.3, the following accountability measures, among
others, shall apply to the special tax:

A.	A separate, special account, referred to as the Safe and Passable Sidewalk Special Tax
Fund, shall be created, into which the proceeds of the special tax, including penalties and interest
earned on such proceeds, must be deposited.

B.	The specific purposes of the special tax are for the funding of public sidewalk
maintenance and obstruction removal projects and for related election, administration, and legal
fees as set forth in Section 4-14.7. The proceeds of the special tax shall be applied only to those
specific purposes.

C.	The City’s chief financial officer shall annually prepare and submit to the City Council a
report regarding the special tax funds collected and expended, as well as any other information
required by Government Code sections 50075.1 and 50075.3.

4-14.9 ADMINISTRATION OF TAX. The City Council may establish rules and
regulations that it determines are necessary and desirable for administration and implementation
of this Article.

4-14.10 AMENDMENTS. This Article may only be amended by a vote of the people if
the amendment would result in the special tax being imposed, extended, or increased in a manner
not authorized by this Article as originally approved by the voters, or if the amendment would

substantially alter the purpose of the special tax. The City Council may enact other amendments,
including but not limited to amendments necessary to implement or administer the special tax.

4-14.10 EXPIRATION OF TAX. The authority to levy the special tax shall remain in
effect until December 31, 2026, and as of that date is repealed unless a later ordinance is adopted
and approved by the voters that either deletes or extends that date. Special taxes imposed in 2026
shall remain due and owing until paid, even after the authority to impose the special tax has
expired.

Section 2.	The People of the City of Albany find that all Recitals contained in this Ordinance

are true and correct and are incorporated herein by reference.

Section 3. Pursuant to California Constitution Article XIIIB, the appropriation limit for the
City of Albany is hereby increased by the aggregate sum authorized to be levied by this special
tax for fiscal year 2016/17 and each year thereafter.

Section 4. This Ordinance is exempt from the California Environmental Quality Act (Public
Resources Code §§ 21000 et seq., “CEQA,” and 14 Cal. Code Reg. §§ 15000 et seq., “CEQA
Guidelines”). The special tax authorized by this Ordinance is a special tax that can only be used to
fund the projects, facilities, and services described in the Ordinance but does not approve any of
the described projects or services. As such, under CEQA Guidelines section 15378(b)(4), the
special tax is not a project within the meaning of CEQA because it creates a government funding
mechanism that does not involve any commitment to any specific project or service that may result
in a potentially significant physical impact on the environment. If revenue from the tax were used
for a purpose that would have such effect, the City would undertake the required CEQA review
for that particular project or service. Therefore, pursuant to CEQA Guidelines Section 15060,
review of the Ordinance under CEQA is not required. Prior to commencement of any project or
service funded by the special tax , any necessary environmental review required by CEQA shall

be completed. The City shall perform CEQ A analysis for the project prior to approving the project
or service, if the project or service requires analysis under CEQ A.

Section 5.	If	any provision of this Ordinance is held by any court or by any Federal or State

agency of competent jurisdiction, to be invalid as conflicting with any Federal or State law, rule
or regulation now or hereafter in effect, or is held by such court or agency to be modified in any
way in order to conform to the requirements of any such law, rule or regulation, such provision
shall be considered a separate, distinct, and independent part of this ordinance, and such holding
shall not affect the validity and enforceability of all other provisions hereof. In the event that such
law, rule or regulation is subsequently repealed, rescinded, amended or otherwise changed, so that
the provision thereof which had previously been held invalid or modified is no longer in conflict
with such law, rule or regulation, said provision shall thereupon return to full force and effect and
shall thereafter be binding. If any section, subsection, phrase, clause, sentence, or word in this
Ordinance shall for any reason be held invalid or unconstitutional by a court of competent
jurisdiction, it shall not nullify the remainder of this Ordinance but shall be confined to the article,
section, subsection, subdivision, clause, sentence or word so held invalid or unconstitutional.

Section 6. This Ordinance shall be considered adopted on the date that the City Council
declares the results of the election at which it was voted upon and shall be effective immediately
because it is an ordinance relating to taxes.

Ordinance No. 2016-03 was submitted to the People of the City of Albany at the November 8,
2016 general municipal election. It was approved by the following vote of the People:

YES:

NO:

Ordinance No. 2016-03 was thereby adopted by the voters at the November 8, 2016 election
and took effect upon adoption of a resolution declaring the results of the election at a regular
meeting of the City Council held on__________,	2016,	by	the	following vote:

AYES:

NOES:

ABSENT:

I HEREBY CERTIFY that the foregoing is a true and correct copy of an ordinance duly and
regularly adopted by the People of the City of Albany, California.

Nicole Almaguer, City Clerk

ORDINANCE 2016-03 - EXHIBIT A

SIDEWALK REPAIR POLICY
APPROVED BY ALBANY CITY COUNCIL JUNE 20, 2016

Purpose

The purpose of the Sidewalk Repair Policy is to improve continuous sidewalk passability in
public right of way by repairing sidewalk damage and removing vegetation obstructions.

Legal Responsibility

Under Section 5610 of the California Streets and Highways Code and per Albany Municipal
Code Section 14-1.5b, property owners and persons in possession of property are required to
maintain adjacent public sidewalks in a safe condition. The existence of this program does not
abrogate the responsibility of the property owners to maintain their frontage improvements in a
safe manner. As part of the administration of the Sidewalk Program, city staff are to use City
newsletter, web page, and outreach events to provide information to property owners regarding
their responsibilities for sidewalks.

Repair Program:

The City of Albany will annually determine priority areas for repair. The City will manage and
pay the entire project cost of priority sidewalk repairs. Upon completion of the repair, the City
will issue a certificate of compliance that returns responsibility for all future maintenance and
repair to the property owner pursuant to existing State law. The Traffic & Safety Commission
will annually propose prioritization of projects to the City Council as well as review sidewalk
repair criteria. As part of the scope of work for a sidewalk repair project, expenditure of funds
associated with the following is authorized:

a)	relocation of shallow utility lines located within area of sidewalk repair;

b)	grinding of stumps of removed trees;

c)	replacement of soil or mulch in landscape strips as necessary to avoid a hazardous

condition;

d)	repair of private driveway if necessary to maintain functionality of the existing driveway;

e)	Funding for expedited repairs in locations with occupants that have special access needs
(e.g., limited mobility, special events, etc.); and

f)	Extending the length of sidewalk to be repaired beyond the area of immediate hazard in
order that the repaired sidewalk can tie into an existing sidewalk in relatively good
condition.

Public Notice for Repair Program

A public notice will be mailed to all property owners adjacent to proposed areas of work ten days
before the Traffic and Safety Commission’s review of the proposed scope of work. The notice

will advise property owners that street trees may be subject to removal and that property owners
are required to cut back other vegetation in the area of work. The notice will also advise owners
that work may be underway for up to two weeks, and solicit requests for information regarding
occupants that may have special access needs that will affect the timing of construction.

Point of Permit Program:

The City of Albany will require that specified construction projects above $100,000 valuation
will trigger a requirement that the property owner repair the sidewalk to City specifications. The
City will conduct a no-cost inspection upon application. The property owner will be responsible
for all repair costs of the scope of projected project would otherwise trigger sidewalk repairs,
such as sewer lateral upgrades, cross-sidewalk drains, new driveway or curb-cuts, etc.

Point of Sale Program:

The City of Albany will require that specified real property transfers will trigger a requirement
that the property owner upgrade damaged sidewalk (the program will function similar to the
existing sewer lateral program). The City will conduct a no-cost inspection upon application. If
no repairs are necessary, a certificate of compliance will be issued that discloses that the property
owner has future responsibility for all maintenance and repair.

Streetscape Improvement Projects:

For sidewalks that that are in locations with fully funded streetscape-related Capital
Improvement Projects, the need for repair will be evaluated on a case by case basis. The
requirement for property owner repair will be deferred or an interim safety and accessibility
solution may be acceptable.

Refinements to Street Tree Program:

The City will evaluate situations where street trees are causing structural damage to sidewalks. A
range of options will be considered including root pruning, enlarging tree wells, realignment or
ramping of sidewalks around or over roots, or alternative paving materials that extend the
functional life of the sidewalk. If a street tree that is causing damage is known to cause uplift
relative to other tree species, the tree shall be removed as part of the repair project and replaced
with a species not expected to damage sidewalks. City staff shall have authority to remove any
tree without public notice if during construction, roots are found in locations that indicate that a
new sidewalk will be damaged in the relative near future and removal of the root is determined
by the City Arborist to substantially weaken the health of the tree.