San Jose, California, Business Tax
Increase, Measure G (November 2016)

| Text of measure

Ballot question

The following question appeared on the ballot:!1!

ti Shall an ordinance be adopted modernizing San Jose’s 1986 business tax
to fund essential services - such as police, emergency response, and
pothole repair - with approximately $12 million in additional annual revenue
by raising the base tax from $150 to $195; increasing rates incrementally for
larger businesses, as provided in the ordinance

at http://sanjoseca.gov/businesstax2016; adjusting for inflation; expanding
exemptions for small businesses and financial hardship; and allowing online
registration and payment?!2!

n

4%

0^

SANjOSE

CITY OF

CAPITAL OF SILICON VALLEY

TO: TONI J. TABER, CMC
City Clerk

FROM: RICHARD DOYLE
City Attorney

SUBJECT: IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

DATE: August 22, 2016

Attached is the original Impartial Analysis signed by the City Attorney for the Business
Tax Modernization Measure, Measure G, on the November 8, 2016 ballot. Please
provide the City Attorney’s Office with a date-stamped copy from the Registrar of Voters
confirming their receipt of the Impartial Analysis.

Please call me if you have any questions at x51928.

RICHARD DOYLE
City Attorney

KARIN MURABITO
Senior Deputy City Attorney

T-331.022.014/1344880

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE G

The San Jose City Council has placed Measure G on the November 8, 2016 ballot, asking voters to adopt
an ordinance revising San Jose’s 1986 business tax. Currently, unless exempt, businesses pay an annual
business tax based on the number of (1) employees; (2) units, lots, or square feet leased; or (3) water
company meter connections. For most businesses, the annual tax is $150 for up to 8 employees with an
additional $18 tax for every employee over 8, located in San Jose, capped at $25,000 annually. For
residential real estate and mobile home parks, tire tax is based on the number of units or lots leased in San
Jose and is capped at $5,000 annually, and for commercial real estate the tax is based on the number of
square feet leased in San Jose, capped at $5,000 annually. Water companies pay a tax based on the
number of meter connections in San Jose, capped at $20,000 annually. The tax is not currently adjusted
for inflation.

If approved by a majority of the voters. Measure G would enact an ordinance, effective on July 1, 2017,
to (1) increase the minimum base tax from $150 to $195; (2) require payment of the minimum base tax by
all businesses; (3) set gr aduated rates for businesses with more employees paying higher rates and
residential and commercial landlords paying more per unit, lot, and square feet of leased space; (4)
require water companies pay $1 per San Jose meter connection; and (5) raise the annual caps on the
maximum amount of tax payable to $150,000. Where a business owes the tax based on both its number
of employees and leased number of units, lots, or square feet, the business is required to pay the higher of
the two calculations. The proposed ordinance also provides for annual adjustment for inflation based on a
consumer price index beginning on July 1, 2018, subject to specified limits. The ordinance should be
consulted for a description of each of the proposed rate increases.

The proposed ordinance maintains various exemptions including the exemptions for nonprofits and
financial hardship for small business owners while adding an exemption for certain small business owners
with limited household incomes. It also provides the option for online registration and payment of the
tax.

If approved, the tax will continue until repealed by the voters or suspended in whole or in part by the City
Council. The tax revenue will be placed in the City’s general fund and may be used to fund essential
services such as police, emergency response, and pothole repair.

A “yes” vote is a vote to increase rates and revise the business tax as set forth in the proposed ordinance.

A “no” vote is a vote to maintain the current tax rates.

the measure, see http://sanioseca.goY/businesstax2016 or call 408-535-1260 and a copy will be sent
at no cost to you.

ZZ Sfiyjigz

JrQ	ijpQ

1342749 10 .

Signature in Support of Argument

Signature in Support of Argument

Rog TW, -f

Printed Name

Signature

Title (if signing on behalf of an organization)

Signature in Support of Argument

Printed Name

U vXajS iSf	Ptj^pApTTMtzl^y'

Title (if signing on behalf of an organization)

Signature

£=> ;p*~D^<*Vry CHi£F

Signature in Support of Argument

S T-	7^#7^/

Printed Name

Signature

'Brk.'S)

ObJ-'N

Title (if signing on behalf of an organization)

<SOlA-g.7

Printed Name

ftusswes /K^/Jen

Title (if signing on behalf of an organization)

i

fiSElESSSJ

FORM OF STATEMENT TO BE FILED BY AUTHORS OEARf UMENTS

Jose Clfy Clerk

All arguments concerning measures filed pursuant to Division 9, Chapter 3
(beginning with § 9200) of the Elections Code shall be accom^|i|^.g^tlj^ol^ir

form statement to be signed by each proponent, and by each author, if different of
the argument:

The undersigned proponent (s) or author(s) of the (primary/rebuttal) argument (in favor
of/against) ballot proposition (name or number) at the General Municipal Election for the City of San Jose
to be held on November 8, 2016 hereby state that the argument is true and correct to the best of
(his/her/their) knowledge and belief.

Office use only

Print Name

Title	C/7Ui^(\'Aaj'<Js>SE

(If appli^l^:Submitte^n/behalf of>>

______>—_________________________________

(name of organization)

teog. ~bftv>s

Print Name

Title	Poui	ic	t

(If applicable):Submitted on behalf of:

________________________(name	of organization)__________________

Print Name	bl,

Title	furfit/yy	fix*	ct4t£rr ftvrt.«

/ur__. /

(If applicable):Submitted on behalf of:

~W

(name of organization)

Print Name

(Mti 6 7- T&/M

Title jjvf/ fr'/L& SS fjJfl Ofl—

f if applicable):Submitted on behalf of:	*

on be

e

fame of organization)

Print Name fiVoCrQ <obAA£?_

Title flt ) f>/a'JJii S-f^-

(if applicabie):Submitted on behalf of:

aa^c	au	Qj\jj

_____(name of organization)

All A uthors must print his/her name and sign this form (EC 9600) A ND
Print his/her name and sign the Argument itself (EC 9283) AND
Print his/her name and sign the Rebuttal Argument itself (EC 9285)

Further; pursuant to Election Code § 9282, printed arguments submitted to the voters shall be titled either
"Argument In Favor Of Measure " or “Argument Against Measure 

Likewise, printed rebuttal arguments submitted pursuant to Election Code § 9285 shall be titled either
“Rebuttal To Argument In Favor Of Measure " or “Rebuttal to Argument Against Measure *

ifVVCftV sv\ Vti-vcC" ^ U	Q*r

Measure G will modernize San Jose's business tax to:

2016 AUG 16 PH I*: 05

•	enable business owners to register and pay online,

•	expand exemptions for small businesses,

•	adjust the tax annually for inflation,

•	ensure larger businesses pay their fair share, and

•	generate revenues to improve public safety, road maintenance, and other essential city services.

San Jose's business tax has not changed since 1986, despite a 120% increase in consumer prices due to
inflation. Measure G contains a regular inflation adjustment so that businesses pay their fair share for

road repair, public safety, and other basic services.

The current business tax unfairly overburdens small businesses. Measure G exempts smaller
businesses and expands exemptions for financial hardship, so more small businesses starting out or
going through hard times won't pay the tax at ail. Measure G ensures that larger companies pay for
their share of essential public services that support their success.

The City Council unanimously voted to place Measure G on the ballot because it also will help pay for
basic city services to:

•	improve police response to violent crimes and burglaries;

•	Repair roads and fill potholes that cost San Jose auto drivers, on average, more than $700
annually in car repairs; and

•	Enable residents suffering from heart attacks, strokes, and other medical emergencies to get the
immediate attention they need to increase their chances for survival.

Measure G resulted from productive negotiations between the City and the local business community,
who have come together to acknowledge that the City needs to modernize the business tax, and make it

Join Mayor Liccardo, San Jose firefighters, police officers, community leaders, and business owners in
voting "Yes" on Measure G: to modernize our business tax, protect small businesses, enable online
registration and payment, and improve public safety and basic services.

more fair.

200 East Santa Clara Street
San Jose, California 95113
Telephone (408) 535-1260
Facsimile (408) 292-6207

CITY OF SAN JOSE, CALIFORNIA

Office of the City Clerk

Toni J. Taber, CMC
City Clerk

August 12,2016

Via Certified Mail

Megan Doyle, Clerk of the Board
Santa Clara County Board of Supervisors
70 West Hedding Street, East Wing, 10th FI.
San Jose, California 95110

Via Hand Delivery

Shannon Bushey, Registrar
Santa Clara County Registrar of Voters
1555 Berger Drive, Building 2,1st FI.
San Jose, California 95112

Dear Megan and Shannon:

Enclosed is a certified copy of Resolution No. 77896 as adopted by the Council of the City of
San Jose on Tuesday, August 9,2016. The Resolution calls for the submission to the electors of
the City of San Jose, at a special municipal election to be consolidated with the next general
election to be held on November 8,2016, an initiative calling and giving notice of, on its own
motion, the submission to the electors of the City of San Jose, at a special municipal election to
be held on November 8, 2016, a ballot measure proposal to amend and restate Chapter 4.76 of
Title 4 of the San Jose Municipal Code to revise the City of San Jose business tax. The
Resolution approves arguments, and does not authorize rebuttals or including the full text of the
measure.

This letter also confirms the argument deadlines as provided by the ROV are:

Arguments: Tuesday, August 17
Impartial Analysis: Tuesday, August 23

Please contact me (Phone: 408-535-1270; e-mail: toni.taber@sanjoseca.gov) if you have any questions
or require additional information. We look forward to working with County staff in conducting these
elections.

\

Toni J. Taber, CMC
City Clerk

2016

Enclosure - Resolution No. 77896

RD:KMM:KML

8/9/2016.

RES NO 77896

RESOLUTION NO. 77896

A RESOLUTION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN
JOSE CALLING AND GIVING NOTICE OF, ON ITS OWN
MOTION, THE SUBMISSION TO THE ELECTORS OF THE
CITY OF SAN JOSE, AT A SPECIAL MUNICIPAL
ELECTION TO BE HELD ON NOVEMBER 8, 2016, A
BALLOT MEASURE PROPOSAL TO AMEND AND
RESTATE CHAPTER 4.76 OF TITLE 4 OF THE SAN JOSE
MUNICIPAL CODE TO REVISE THE CITY OF SAN JOSE
BUSINESS TAX

WHEREAS, Charter Section 1600 authorizes the City Council to set the date for a
Special Municipal Election; and

WHEREAS, the City Council desires to submit to the electors of the City of San Jose at
a Special Municipal Election a ballot measure proposal to amend and restate Chapter
4.76 of Title 4 of the San Jose Municipal Code to revise the City of San Jose business
tax;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN
JOSE THAT:

SECTION 1. A Special Municipal Election is hereby called and ordered to be held in the
City of San Jose on November 8, 2016, for the purpose of voting on a ballot measure to
amend and restate Chapter 4.76 of Title 4 of the San Jose Municipal Code to revise the
City of San Jose business tax, which shall become operative if a majority of the electors
voting on the measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax. The full text of the
measure and the actual language of the proposed Ordinance amending the Code is
• attached to this Resolution as Exhibit A.

SECTION 2. The ballot measure will be placed on the ballot for the November 8, 2016
election in the following form:

T-331.022.014 \1314486_3
Council Agenda: 8-9-16
Item No.: 3.13(b)

1

RD:KMM:KML	RES	NO	7789S

8/9/2016

MEASURE

Business Tax Modernization

Shall an ordinance be adopted modernizing San Jose’s 1986 business tax to fund essential services - such as	YES	
police, emergency response, and pothole repair-with approximately $12 million in additional annual revenue by: raising the base tax from $150 to $195; increasing rates incrementally for larger businesses, as provided in the ordinance at http://sanioseca.qov/businesstax2016;		
adjusting for inflation; expanding exemptions for small businesses and financial hardship; and allowing online registration and payment?	NO	

SECTION 3. The City Council hereby requests the Board of Supervisors of the County
of Santa Clara, California to permit the Registrar of Voters of Santa Clara County to
render to the City of San Jose such services as the City Clerk of the City of San Jose
may request relating to the conduct of the above-described Special Municipal Election
with respect to the following matters:

Coordination of election precincts, polling places, voting
booths, voting systems and election officers; Printing and
mailing of voter pamphlets; Preparation of tabulation of result
of votes cast.

SECTION 4. The City Council hereby requests that the Registrar of Voters of the
County of Santa Clara consolidate the Special Municipal Election called and ordered to
be held on November 8, 2016 with any other election that may be held on that date.

SECTION 5. The City Council hereby authorizes the Board of Supervisors of Santa
Clara County, California to canvass the returns of the Special Municipal Election.

SECTION 6. The City Council hereby directs the City Clerk to reimburse the County of
Santa Clara in full for any of the above-mentioned services which may be performed by
the Registrar of Voters, upon presentation of a bill to the City, with funds already
appropriated to the City Clerk for election purposes.

2

T-331.022.014 \ 1314486_3
Council Agenda: 8-9-16
Item No.: 3.13(b)

RD:KMM:KML

8/9/2016

RES NO 77896

SECTION 7. The City Council hereby directs the City Clerk to take all actions
necessary in order to facilitate the Special Municipal Election in the time frame specified
herein and comply with provisions of the Elections Code of the State of California, City
Charter, Ordinances, Resolutions and Policies with regard to the conduct of the Special
Municipal Election.

SECTION 8. Pursuant to Section 12111 of the California Elections Code, the City
Council hereby directs the City Clerk to (a) cause a synopsis of the proposed measure
to be published at least one time not later than one week before the election in the San
Jose Mercury News, a newspaper of general circulation within the City of San Jose; (b)
consolidate the Notice of Measure to be Voted with the Notice of Election into a single
notice; (c) cause the following statement to be printed in the impartial analysis to be
prepared by the City Attorney: “If you would like to read the full text of the measure, see
http://sanioseca.gov/businesstax2016 or call 408-535-1260 and a copy will be sent at
no cost to you.”; and (d) do all other things required by law to submit the specified
measure above to the electors of the City of San Jose at the Special Municipal Election,
including causing the full text of the proposed measure to be made available in the
Office of the City Clerk at no cost and posted on the City Clerk’s website.

SECTION 9. Pursuant to Sections 9282 and 9285 of the California Elections Code, the
City Council hereby approves the submittal of direct arguments for and against the
ballot measure, if any, and authorizes the Mayor to author and submit a ballot measure
argument in favor of the ballot measure but determines that rebuttal arguments will not
be allowed.

SECTION 10. The City Council hereby directs the City Clerk to transmit a copy of the
measure qualifying for placement on the ballot to the City Attorney for preparation of an
impartial analysis.

3

T-331.022.014 \1314486_3
Council Agenda: 8:9-16
Item No.: 3.13(b)

RD:KMM:KML

8/9/2016

RES NO 77896

SECTION 11. Acknowledge that the consolidated election will be held and conducted in
the manner prescribed in California Elections Code Section 10418.

ADOPTED this 9th day of August, 2016, by the following vote:

AYES:	CARRASCO,	HERRERA,	KALRA,	KHAMIS,

M. NGUYEN, T. NGUYEN, OLIVERIO, PERALEZ,
ROCHA; LICCARDO.

NOES:	NONE.

ABSENT:	JONES..

DISQUALIFIED:	NONE.

ATTEST:

TONI J. TAB
City Clerk

SAM LICCARDO
Mayor

The foregoing instrument is
a correct copy of the original
on file in this office.

Attest:

TONI J. TABER
City Clerk
City Clerk of the City of San Joss
County of Santa Ciar& State of California
By dfyfrr?___________________________________.Deputy

4

T-331.022.014 \1314486_3
Council Agenda: 8-9-16
Item No.: 3.13(b)

RES NO 77896

EXHIBIT A
BUSINESS TAX

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF SAN JOSE:

Chapter 4.76 of Title 4 of the San Jose Municipal Code is hereby amended and restated
in its entirety to be numbered, entitled, and to read as follows:

CHAPTER 4.76
BUSINESS TAX

Part 1

PURPOSE AND DEFINITIONS

4.76.010 Purpose

This Chapter is enacted solely to raise revenue for municipal purposes and is not
intended for regulation.

4.76.020 Definitions Generally

For the purpose of this Chapter, certain words and phrases are defined and certain
provisions shall be construed as set forth in this Part 1, unless it shall be apparent from
their context that a different meaning is intended.

4.76.030 Average Number of Employees - Defined - Computation

A.	"Average number of employees" means the average number of employees
employed in the City in applicant's business in the one (1) year immediately

T-331.022.014 \ 1314486_3
Council Agenda: 8-9-16
Item No.: 3.13(b)

A-1

RES NO 77896

preceding the commencement of the year for which the business tax certificate is
being issued, and shall be determined as follows:

1.	By ascertaining the total number of hours of service performed in the City
by all employees in the applicant's business during the preceding year and
dividing the total number of hours of service thus obtained by the number
of hours of service constituting a day's work according to the laws, custom
or usage governing or pertaining to such employment, and the number
thus obtained shall then be divided by the number of business days in the
preceding year; or

2.	At the option of the applicant, if the applicant files with the State
Department of Employment the forms and reports hereinafter mentioned,
and if the applicant reports therein all applicant's employees as defined in
this Chapter, the applicant may calculate the average number of
employees by taking the number of employees employed in applicant's
business in the City in each month.of the preceding year as shown and
reported on all DE3 forms, and by dividing the sum thus obtained by
twelve (12). The DE3 and other forms hereinabove referred to are those
certain forms entitled "DE3 Contribution Return and Report of Wages
Under the Unemployment Insurance Code," which employers are required
to file with the State Department of Employment, under the Unemployment
Insurance Code of the state for the purpose of reporting contributions due
under such Code, and any other form or forms now or hereafter required
by the State for such purposes.

B.	In computing the average number of employees, fractions of numbers of one-half
(1/2) and greater shall be rounded up to the next whole number.

T-331.022.014 \1314486_3
Council Agenda: 8-9-16
Item No.: 3.13(b)

A-2

RES NO 77896

4.76.040 Average Number of Employees - For Mew Business - Defined -
Computation

A.	The provisions of Section 4.76.030 to the contrary notwithstanding, in the case of
a new business, "average number of employees," as used in this Chapter,
means the average number of employees employed in the City in the applicant's
business in the period of time for which the business tax certificate is being
issued, and shall be determined as follows: The applicant, if all or part of the tax
imposed on the business is based on the average number of employees in such
business, shall file with the Director, with the application for a business tax
certificate under the provisions of this Chapter, a written statement, on forms
furnished by the Director, setting forth the estimate of the average number of
employees which the applicant intends or expects will be employed in the City in
applicant’s business in the period of time for which the business tax certificate is
to be issued. Any tax imposed hereunder on such business, based upon the
average number of employees in such business, shall thereupon be calculated
upon the basis of the estimate, and applicant shall thereupon pay such tax based
upon such estimate.

B.	At the end of the period for which the business tax certificate has been issued,
the applicant shall file with the Director a written statement showing the actual
average number of employees employed in the City in applicant’s business
during such period, computed in accordance with Section 4.76.030 above. If the
tax based on the actual average number of persons employed in such period
exceeds the tax based on the number estimated at the time the business tax
certificate was issued, the applicant shall thereupon pay the difference to the
Director.

If the tax based on the actual average number of persons employed in such
period is less than the tax based on the number estimated at the time the

T-331.022.014X 1314486_3
Council Agenda: 8-9-16
Item No.: 3.13(b)

A-3

RD:KMM:KML

8/9/2016

RES NO 77896

business tax certificate was issued, the applicant shall be credited by the City a
sum equal to the difference.

4.76.050 Business

The term "business" shall include all activities engaged in or caused to be engaged in
within this City including any commercial or industrial enterprise, trade, profession,
occupation, vocation, calling, or livelihood including rental or lease of residential or
nonresidential real estate and mobilehome parks, or independent contractors, whether
or not carried on for gain or profit, but shall not include the services rendered by an
employee to his employer.

4.76.052 Business Tax Certificate

“Business tax certificate” or “certificate” means the certificate issued by the City to the
taxpayer upon completion of the business tax application and payment of the tax
prescribed by this Chapter, or the certificate issued by the Director pursuant td Section
4.76.610 upon a determination by the Director that an applicant for an exemption from,
payment of the business tax under the provisions of this Chapter is exempt.

4.76.055	Calendar Quarter

"Calendar quarter" means any of the four (4) three (3)-month periods of the calendar
year commencing on January 1st, April 1st, July 1st, and October 1st.

4.76.056	CPI Index

“CPI Index” means the Consumer Price Index - All Urban Consumers for All Items (with
a base period of 1982-1984=100) for the San Francisco-Oakland-San Jose Area
published by the United States Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics.

T-331.022.014 \ 1314486_3
Council Agenda: 8-9-16
item No.: 3.13(b)

A-4

RD:KMM:KML

8/9/2016

RES NO 77896

4.76.057	Day

“Day” means calendar day unless otherwise specified.

4.76.05B Director

“Director” means the Director of the Finance. Department of the City,

4.76.060 Employee

"Employee" means each and every person engaged in the operation or conduct of any
business, whether as owner, member of the owner's family, partner, associate, agent,
manager or solicitor, and each and every other person employed or working in such
business for a wage, salary, commission or room and board.

4.76.070 Engaged in Business

"Engaged in business" means the commencing, conducting, operating, managing or
carrying on of a business and the exercise of corporate or franchise powers, whether
done as owner, or by means of an officer, agent, manager, employee, servant or
otherwise, whether operating from a fixed location in the City or coming into the City
from an outside location to engage in such activities.

4.76.075

Whenever any person by use of signs, circulars, cards or any other advertising media,
including the use of internet or telephone solicitation, represents that such person is
engaged in business in the City, then these facts may be used as evidence that such
person is doing business in the City.

T-331.022.014 \ 1314486_3
Council Agenda: 8-9-16
Item No.: 3.13(b)

A-5

RD:KMM:KML

8/9/2016

RES NO 77896

4.76.095 Business Tax

"Business tax,” or “tax” means the tax due for engaging in business in San Jose.
4.76.098 NAICS Code

“NAICS Code” means the numerical classification for business activities established in
the North American Industry Classification System.

4.76.100 New Business

"New business" means a business in existence and operation for ninety (90) days or
less.

4.76.105 Online Filing System

“Online Filing System” means an internet based system as an optional method for the
filing of an application for a business tax certificate and making payment of the business
tax, including any interest and penalties, required to be paid pursuant to this Chapter.

4.76.110 Person

"Person" means any domestic or foreign corporation, firm, association, syndicate, joint-
stock company, partnership of any kind, joint venture, club, Massachusetts business or
common law trust, society, individual, estate, business trust, receiver, retirement plan,
trustee, or any other group or combination acting as a unit.

T-331.022.014 \ 1314486_3
Council Agenda: 8-9-16
Item No.: 3.13(b)

A-6

RD:KMM:KML

8/9/2016

RES NO 77896

4.76.115 Small Business

"Small business" means a business owned and operated by a single natural person or
owned and operated jointly by married spouses or domestic partners, without other
principals or employees. For purposes of this Chapter, "domestic partners" means two
(2) individuals who have a current declaration of domestic partnership on file with the
California Secretary of State pursuant to the Domestic Partner Registration Act,
California Family Code Section 297, et. seq., as may be amended, identifying
themselves as each other's domestic partner. A "small business" does not include a
corporation, partnership, or association unless the single business operator or married
spouses or domestic partners are the only employees of the corporation, partnership, or
association.

4.76.120	Small Business Owner

“Small business owner” means a single natural person who owns and operates a small
business or owns and operates a small business with his or her spouse or domestic
partner, as applicable.

Part 2

GENERAL TAX PROVISIONS

4.76.160 Other Licenses. Permits, Taxes. Fees or Charges Authorized When

Nothing contained in this Chapter 4.76 shall be deemed to repeal, amend, be in lieu of,
replace or in any way affect any requirements for any license or permit required by,
under or by virtue of any provision of any other Title or Chapter of this Code or any
other ordinance or resolution of the City or of its Council, nor be deemed to repeal,
amend, be in lieu of, replace or in any way affect any tax, fee or other charge imposed,

T-331.022.014 \ 1314486_3
Council Agenda: 8-9-16
Item No.: 3.13(b)

A-7

RES NO 77896

assessed or required by, under or by virtue of any other Title or Chapter of this Code or

any other ordinance or resolution of the City or of its Council.

4.76.170 Business Tax Certificate - Required

A.	There are hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in business in the City
business taxes in the amounts hereinafter in this Chapter prescribed. It shall be
unlawful for any person to commence, transact or carry on any business in the
City not excluded by this Chapter without first having procured a business tax
certificate from the City to do so, or without complying with any and all provisions
contained in this Chapter. The carrying on of any business without complying
with any and ail provisions of this Chapter shall constitute a separate violation of
this Chapter for each and every day that such business is so carried on.

B.	The business tax certificate required to be obtained and the business tax
required to be paid are declared to be required pursuant to the taxing power of
the City solely for the purpose of obtaining revenue and are not regulatory permit
fees.

4.76.180 Payment of Tax Does Not Authorize Unlawful Business

A.	The payment of a business tax required by this Chapter, and its acceptance by
the City, and the issuance of a certificate to any person evidencing payment of
the business tax shall not entitle any person to carry on any business unless the
person has complied with all of the requirements of this Code and all other
applicable laws, nor to carry on any business in any building or on any premises
in the event that such building or premises are situated in a zone or locality in
which the conduct of such business is in violation of any law.

T-331.022.014 \1314486_3
Council Agenda: 8-9-16
Item No,: 3.13(b)

A-8

RD:KMM:KML

8/9/2016

RES NO 77896

B.	No business tax certificate issued under the provisions of this Chapter shall be
construed as authorizing the conduct or continuance of any illegal or unlawful
business, or any business in violation of any ordinance of the City.

4.76.190 Application - Form and Contents

Every person required to have a business tax certificate under the provisions of this
Chapter shall make application for the same, or for renewal of the same, to the Director.
Such application shall be a written statement upon a form or forms provided by the
Director and shall be signed by the applicant under penalty of perjury. The application
shall set forth such information as may be therein required and as may be reasonably
necessary to properly determine the amount of the tax to be paid by the applicant,
together with such other information as is required by the Director to enable the Director
to administer the provisions of this Chapter.

4.76.200 Application - Information Not Conclusive - Confidentiality

A.	No application shall be conclusive as to the matters set forth therein, nor shall the
v filing of the same preclude the City from collecting by appropriate action such tax

as is actually due and payable under this Chapter. Each application, and all
statements and information therein contained, shall be subject to review, audit
and verification by the Director, his or her deputies, or other authorized
employees of the City. All persons engaged in business in the City are hereby
required to permit examination of their books, records and papers for the
purposes set forth in this Chapter.

B.	the information or data obtained from such examination or audit, or from any
application required hereunder, shall be deemed to be confidential, subject to the
exceptions set forth in this Section. The foregoing information is referred to as
business tax records.

T-331.022.014 \1314486_3	A-9

Council Agenda: 8-9-16
Item No.: 3.13(b)

RD:KMM:KML

8/9/2016

RES NO 77896

C.	Publicly available information that is required to be included in the business tax
application or is specified in the business tax application, including without
limitation, the name, address, business tax account number, NAICS Code and
any other business classifications as the Director deems appropriate for the

. identification and tracking of the business, and the administration of this Chapter,
are subject to disclosure.

D.	The provisions of this Section shall not be construed to prevent the disclosure of
business tax records by a City official, employee or agent for the purpose of
administering or enforcing any provisions of this Chapter.

E.	The provisions of this Section shall not be construed to prevent the disclosure of
business tax records to, or the examination of business tax records by, federal or
state tax officials, or the tax officials of another city or county or city and county if
a reciprocal arrangement exists for the exchange of tax information in order to
assist the City with the enforcement of this Chapter.

F.	The provisions of this Section shall not be construed to prevent the disclosure of
business tax records in response to a subpoena or a court order.

4.76.220 Business Tax Certificate - For Multiple Businesses at One Location

If a person engages in two (2) or more separate businesses at the same establishment
or location, there shall be a separate business tax certificate issued for each business.
Separate.business operations are further defined as involving two (2) or more separate
and distinct business entities or names wherein separate sets of accounting records,
bank accounts, and the like are maintained.

T-331:022.014 \ 1314486_3
Council Agenda: 8-9-16
Item No.: 3.13(b)

A-10

RD:KMM:KML

8/9/2016

RES NO 77896

4.76.225 Business Tax Certificate - For the Same Business at Multiple Locations

Notwithstanding any language in this Chapter to the contrary, each branch
establishment or location at or from which a person carries on the same business shall
not be deemed a separate business, but all such branches and locations shall be
treated as one (1) business.

4.76.230 Business Tax Certificate for Concession-Basis Businesses

Every person operating any business, whether upon a cost, rental or commission basis
as a concession or upon rented floor space in or upon the premises of any other person
engaged in business under any provision of this Chapter, shall be required to pay the
tax and obtain a separate and independent business tax certificate pursuant to the
appropriate provisions hereof, and shall be subject to all the provisions of this Chapter.

4.76.240 Annual Certificate - Term

A.	Any certificate evidencing payment of the business tax which is payable on an
annual basis shall become valid on the date on which the City receives payment
in full of the tax and, if applicable, interest and penalties'. Regardless of the date
of payment of the business tax, the certificate evidencing payment of the
business tax by a new business shall be dated as of the date on which the
business commenced and the certificate evidencing the annual payment of the
business tax shall be dated as of the due date for payment of the business tax.

B.	The certificate issued on an annual basis shall remain valid until the due date for
the annual payment of the business tax as specified in Section 4.76.270.

T-331.022.014 \ 1314486_3
' Council Agenda: 8-9-16
Item No.: 3.13(b)

A-11

RES NO 77896

4.76.270 Payment - Time Limits

All business taxes imposed by this Chapter shall be due and payable as follows:

A.	Business taxes paid on an annual basis shall be paid in advance. Business taxes
shall become due and payable on the following dates:

1.	Subject to the provisions of Section 4.76,290, the first business tax
payment is due and payable on the first date on which the person
engaged in business in the City; and

2.	Each business tax payment thereafter is due and payable annually on the
fifteenth (15th) day of the calendar month during which the person first
engaged in business in the City.

B.	Notwithstanding Subsection A.2., for those business tax accounts that were
assigned to make the annual payment of the business tax during a calendar
quarter that was not the calendar quarter in which the business tax was first due
to the City, the business taxpayers shall make their annual payment of the
business tax on the fifteenth (15th) day of the first month of the calendar quarter
in which they have been making payment of the business tax, as determined by
the Director.

C.	The due date for business taxes that are paid on a monthly basis shall be the last
day of the month immediately following the month for which the tax is payable.

D.	In the case of a business that is discontinued, dissolved or otherwise terminated
before the expiration of a business tax period, the due date for any taxes accrued
and owing to the City under the provisions of this Chapter, including any
business taxes that would not otherwise be paid until the close of the business

T-331.022.014 \ 1314486J3
Counci! Agenda: 8-9-16
Item No.: 3.13(b)

A-12

RES NO 77896

tax period during which termination occurs or would not otherwise be paid until
the time of paying the tax for the next succeeding business tax period, shall be
the date of termination of the business.

4.76.270.5 Extension of Payment Date - City Office Closure

A.	In any year that the City offices are closed, by action of the City Council, during
the period of December 24 through January 1, the taxes imposed under this
Chapter shall be due as follows:

1.	Business.taxes which are paid on an annual basis, pursuant to Section

4.76.270.	A., which would be due on the first day of the year, shall be
deemed timely if payment is made on or before seven (7) days after the
due date.

2.	Business taxes which are paid on a monthly basis, pursuant to Section

4.76.270.	C., which would be due on December 31, shall be deemed timely
if payment is made on or before seven (7) days after the due date.

4.76.275 Payments and Communications Made by Mail - Proof of Timely
Submittal

A.	Whenever any payment, statement, report, request or other connmunication

received by the Director is received after the time prescribed by this Chapter for
the receipt thereof, but is in an envelope bearing a postmark showing that it was
mailed prior to the time prescribed in this Chapter for the receipt thereof, or
whenever the Director is furnished substantial proof that the payment, statement,
report, request or other communication was in fact deposited in the United States
mail prior to the time prescribed for receipt thereof, the Director may regard such

T-331.022.014 \1314486_3
Council Agenda: 8-9-16
Item No.: 3.13(b)

A-13

RD:KMM:KML

8/9/2016

RES NO 77896

payment, statement, report, request or other communication as having been
timely received.

B.	If the due day falls on Saturday, Sunday or a holiday, the due day shall be the
next regular business day on which the City Hall is open to the public.

4.76.280	Payment - When Taxes Deemed Delinquent

Unless otherwise specifically provided under other provisions of this Chapter, all
business taxes required to be paid pursuant to this Chapter shall be deemed delinquent
if not paid on or before the due date specified in Section 4.76.270.

4.76.281	Notice Not Required by City

The Director is not required to send a renewal, delinquency or other notice or bill to any
person subject to the provisions of this Chapter and failure to send such notice or bill
shall not affect the validity of any tax or penalty due under the provisions of this
Chapter.

4.76.282	Statement for Renewal of Business Tax

Every person subject to a business tax shall, before the business tax becomes
delinquent, file with the Director such information as required by the Director to enable
the Director to administer the provisions of this Chapter and shall pay at such time the
amount of the tax computed thereon.

T-331.022.014 \1314486_3
Council Agenda: 8-9-16
Item No.: 3.13(b)

A-14

RES NO 77896

4.76.290 Payment - Penalty for Delinquency; and 90-dav Grace Period for New

Businesses

A.	Any person who fails or refuses to pay any business tax required to be paid
pursuant to this Chapter on or before the due date shall pay penalties and
interest as follows:

1.	A penalty equal to twenty-five percent (25%) of the amount of the tax in
addition to the amount of the tax, plus interest on the unpaid tax calculated
from the due date of the tax at a rate established by resolution of the City
Council; and

2.	An additional penalty equal to twenty-five percent (25%) of the amount of
the tax if the tax remains unpaid for a period exceeding thirty (30) days
beyond the due date, plus interest on the unpaid tax and interest on the
unpaid penalties calculated at the rate established by resolution of the City
Council.

B.	Notwithstanding Subsection A., if the first time the business tax is due the
taxpayer pays the tax in full within ninety (90) days of the due date, the City shall
waive all penalties and interest accruing to the date of payment. This waiver only
applies to the first time that the business tax is due for a new business.

C.	Any person engaged in the business of operating a solid waste disposal facility
who fails to pay any business tax required to be paid under Section 4.76.490 on
or before the due date shall pay penalties and interest equal to ten percent (10%)
of the amount of the tax, in addition to the amount of the tax, if payment is
received by the Director within one (1) business day of the due date. Thereafter,
penalties and interest shall accrue at the rates provided in Subsection A., above.

T-331.022.014 \1314486_3
Council Agenda: 8-9-16
Item No.: 3.13(b)

A-15

RD:KMM:KML

8/9/2016

RES NO 77896

D.	Whenever a check is submitted in payment of a business tax and the check is
subsequently returned unpaid by the bank upon which the check is drawn, and
the check is not redeemed prior to the due date, the taxpayer will be liable for the
tax amount due plus penalties and interest as provided for in this Section plus
any amount allowed under state law.

E.	Except for new businesses that qualify under Subsection B., if any person has
failed to apply for and secure a valid business tax certificate, the business tax
due shall be that amount due and payable from the first date on which the person
was engaged in business in the City, together with applicable penalties and
interest calculated in accordance with Subsection A., above.

4.76.295 Waiver of Penalties

The Director may waive the first and second penalties of twenty-five percent (25%) each

imposed upon any person if:

A.	The person provides evidence satisfactory to the Director that failure to pay
timely was due to circumstances beyond the control of the person and occurred
notwithstanding the exercise of ordinary care and the absence of willful neglect,
and the person paid the delinquent business tax and accrued interest owed the
City prior to applying to the Director for a waiver.

B.	The waiver provisions specified in this Subsection shall not apply to interest
accrued on the delinquent tax and a waiver shall be granted only once during any
twenty-four (24) month period.

T-331.022.014 \ 1314486_3

Council Agenda: 8-9-16
Item No.: 3.13(b)

A-16

RD:KMM:KML

8/9/2016

RES NO 77896

4.76.300 Business Tax Certificate Not Transferable - Amended Business Tax
Certificate for Changed Location - Change of Business Name

A.	Business tax certificates issued pursuant to this Chapter are not transferable or
assignable to any other person, nor shall any tax paid by any person under the
provisions of this Chapter be applied in whole or in part to the payment of any tax
due or to become due from any other person.

B.	Every person issued a business tax certificate shall apply to the Director for the
issuance of an amended business tax certificate prior to changing the location of
the principal place of business, business name, or business mailing address
specified in the business tax certificate. Issuance of an amended business tax
certificate shall be subject to the payment of the application fee specified in the
schedule of fees and charges established by resolution of the City Council.

C.	It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, give or otherwise transfer to another
person, or allow any other person to use or display, damage or remove, or to
possess, except as authorized by this Chapter, any business tax certificate
issued to another person.

D.	The transfer of the stock or assets of any business which results in a change in
the control of the business shall constitute a change of ownership.

4.76.310 Business Tax Certificate - Posting or Carrying Required

Every person issued a business tax certificate under the provisions of this Chapter for
engaging in business at a fixed place of business shall keep such business tax
certificate posted for exhibition, while in force, in some conspicuous place and in plain
public view in the place of business. Every person having such a business tax certificate
and not having a fixed place of business shall carry such business tax certificate at all

T-331.022.014 \ 1314486_3
Council Agenda: 8-9-16
Item No.: 3.13(b)

A-17

RD:KMM:KML

8/9/2016

RES NO 77896

times while carrying on the business for which the same was issued. Every person
having a business tax certificate shall produce and exhibit the same whenever
requested to do so by any police officer or any person authorized to issue or inspect
business tax certificates or collect business taxes under the provisions of this Chapter.

4.76.320 Vehicle Identification Stickers

A.	The Director may require any person who uses vehicles in the conduct of
business to display prominently within such vehicle a sticker, device, sign or
business tax certificate or facsimile which shall have printed thereon the words
"San Jose, California," or any abbreviation thereof, together with the current term
of the business tax certificate, and shall be in such form and color and contain
such other information as the Director shall determine.

B.	No person to whom a vehicle identification tag has been issued shall give away,
sell or transfer any such identification tag or permit its use by any other person.

4.76.330 Duplicate Certificates

Duplicate certificates may be issued by the Director to replace any business tax
certificate previously issued which has been lost or destroyed upon the filing of an
affidavit attesting to such fact, and at the time of filing such affidavit paying to the
Director a fee as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges established by resolution
of the City Council.

4.76.335 Refunds - Credits

A. No refund shall be made of any tax collected pursuant to this Chapter except as
provided in Section 4.76.340.

T-331.022.014 \ 1314486_3
Council Agenda: 8-9-16
Item No.: 3.13(b)

A-18

RES NO 77896

RD:KMM:KML

8/9/2016

B.	No refund of any tax collected pursuant to this Chapter shall be made because of
the discontinuation, dissolution or other termination of a business.

C.	Any person entitled to a refund of taxes paid pursuant to this Chapter may elect
in writing to have such refund applied as a credit against such person's business
taxes for the next succeeding calendar year.

4.76.340 Refunds and Procedures

A.	Whenever the amount of any business tax, penalty or interest has been overpaid,
paid more than once, or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received by
the City under this Chapter, it may be refunded to the claimant who paid the tax
provided that a written claim for refund is filed with the Director, and the
provisions of Chapter 4.82 are satisfied.

B.	The Director or the Director's authorized agent shall have the right to examine
and audit all the books and business records of the claimant in order to
determine the eligibility of the claimant to the claimed refund. No claim for refund
shall be allowed if the claimant therefor refuses to allow such examination of
claimant's books and business records after request by the Director to do so.

,C. In the event that the business tax was erroneously paid and the error is

attributable to the City, the entire amount of the tax erroneously paid shall be
refunded to the claimant. If the error is attributable to the claimant, the City shall
retain the amount set forth in the schedule of fees and charges established by
resolution of the City Council from the amount to be refunded to cover processing
expenses.

!

D.	The Director shall initiate a refund of any business tax which has been overpaid
or erroneously collected whenever the overpayment or erroneous collection is

T-331.022.014 \ 1314486_3
Council Agenda: 8-9-16
Item No.: 3.13(b)

A-19

RD:KMM:KML

8/9/2016

RES NO 77896

uncovered by a City audit of business tax receipts. Jn the event that the business
tax was erroneously paid and the error is attributable to the City, the entire
amount of the tax erroneously paid shall be refunded to the claimant. If the error
is attributable to the claimant, the City shall retain the amount set forth in
Subsection C., above from the amount to be refunded to cover processing
expenses.

E.	Under any of the following circumstances, no refund shall be made pursuant to
this Section unless and until the claimant surrenders to the Director the business
tax certificate evidencing payment of the tax for which refund is sought:

1.	. Where the tax was paid for a new business but the new business did not

become operational within sixty (60) days of the payment of the tax.

2.	Where the tax was paid to renew a business tax certificate for a business
not in existence at the time the tax was paid.

3.	Where a business tax certificate was issued for a business for which
another business tax certificate had been issued for the same time period.

4.76.345 Financial Hardship Exemption for Low Revenue Generating Small
Businesses

A.	A small business owner shall be exempt from the payment of any business tax
imposed under the provisions of this Chapter where the gross receipts of the
small business do not exceed the poverty level for the calendar year in which the
business tax is due, and the small business owner satisfies each of the
requirements set forth in Subsection C., below.

B.	For the purposes of this Section;

T-331.022.014 \ 1314486J3
Council Agenda: 8-9-16
Item No.: 3.13(b)

A-20

RES NO 77896

1.	The term "poverty level" means the income amount established by the
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services as the poverty guideline
for a single person multiplied by two (2) for the calendar year in which the
business tax is due. In the event the U.S. Department of Health and
Human Services discontinues publication of poverty guidelines, the
Director shall use as a reference poverty population statistics published by
either the State or a federal department or agency that the Director
determines to be comparable in assessing the eligibility for the exemption
under this Section.

2.	The term “gross receipts” means gross receipts as defined by the Internal
Revenue Code of the United States and the regulations established
therewith.

C.	A small business owner is eligible for an exemption in accordance with the
provisions of Subsection A., provided that:

1.	The exemption request is filed with the Director on or before the.date the
business tax is due; and

2.	The exemption request is made upon a form provided therefor by the
Director, stating under penalty of perjury that it is anticipated that the gross
receipts of the small business will be at or below the poverty level for the
calendar year in which the business tax is due.

D.	The Director shall have the right to examine and audit ail the books and records
of the small business owner, including state and federal income tax returns or
other documentation of gross receipts of the small business deemed adequate
by the Director, in order to determine the eligibility of the small business owner

T-331.022.014 \1314486_3
Council Agenda: 8-9-16
Item No.: 3.13(b)

A-21

RES NO 77896

RD:KMM:KML

8/9/2016

for the exemption. If the Director determines that the small business owner was
not entitled to an exemption previously issued, then the business tax for such
calendar year shall be due within thirty (30) days of notification by the City. If the
business tax is not paid on or before the thirtieth day, penalties and interest shall
accrue pursuant to Section 4.76.290.

E.	No exemption shall be allowed if the small business owner refuses to allow
examination of his or her books and records, including either state or federal
income tax returns or other documentation of gross receipts of the small
business deemed adequate by the Director, after requested by the Director to do
so.

F.	Any decision of the Director made under this Section shall be final.

4.76.345.5 Financial Hardship Exemption for Small Business Owners with Limited

Household Incomes

A.	A small business owner shall be exempt from the payment of any business tax
imposed under the provisions of this Chapter where the adjusted gross income of
the small business owner and the small business owner’s spouse or domestic
partner, as applicable, added together do not exceed the poverty level for the
calendar year in which the business tax is due, and the small business owner
satisfies each of the requirements set forth in Subsection C., below.

B.	For the purposes of this Section:

1. The term "poverty level" means the income amount established by the
U.S. Department of Flealth and Human Services as the poverty guideline
for a single person multiplied by four (4) for the calendar year in which the
business tax is due. In the event the U.S. Department of Health and

T-331,022.014 \ 1314486_3

Council Agenda: 8-9-16
Item No.: 3.13(b)

A-22

RES NO 77896

Human Services discontinues publication of poverty guidelines, the
Director shall use as a reference poverty population statistics published by
either the State or a federal department or agency that the Director
determines to be comparable in assessing the eligibility for the exemption
under this Section.

2. The term “adjusted gross income” means adjusted gross income as
defined by the Internal Revenue Code of the United States and the
regulations established therewith.

C.	A small business owner is eligible for an exemption in accordance with the
provisions of Subsection A., provided that:

1.	The exemption request is filed with the Director on or before the date the
business tax is due; and

2.	The exemption request is made upon a form provided therefor by the
Director, stating under penalty of perjury that it is anticipated that the
adjusted gross income of the small business owner and his or her spouse
or domestic partner, as applicable, added together will be at or below the
poverty level for the calendar year in which the business tax is due.

D.	The Director shall have the right to examine and audit all the books and records
of the small business owner, including state and federal income tax returns or
other documentation of adjusted gross income deemed adequate by the Director,
in order to determine the eligibility of the small business owner for the exemption.
If the Director determines that the small business owner was not entitled to an
exemption previously issued, then the business tax for such calendar year shall
be due within thirty (30) days of notification by the City. If the business tax is not

T-331.022.014 \ 1314486_3
Council Agenda: 8-9-16
Item No.: 3.13(b)

A-23

RD:KMM:KML

8/9/2016

RES NO 77896

paid on or before the thirtieth day, penalties and interest shall accrue pursuant to
Section 4.76.290.

E.	No exemption shall be allowed if the small business owner refuses to allow
examination of his or her books and records, including either state or federal
income tax returns or other 'documentation of adjusted gross income deemed
adequate by the Director, after requested by the Director to do so.

F.	Any decision of the Director made under this Section shall be final.

Part 3

TAXES ON AVERAGE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES BASIS
4.76.350 Businesses Taxed

Every person engaged in business in the City shall pay a business tax as calculated in
this Part based on the average number of employees, unless the basis of the tax is
otherwise prescribed in Section 4.76.355 or in Part 4 of this Chapter or the business is
exempted from the tax as prescribed in Part 5 of this Chapter.

4.76.355 Suspension of the Business Tax for Certain Real Estate Agents

A. For the purposes of this Section, the following terms have these meanings:

1.	"Real estate agent" or "agent" means a salesperson or broker-associate
who places his or her real estate license issued by the State Department
of Real Estate with a real estate broker.

2.	"Real estate broker" or "broker" means the holder of a real estate broker's
license issued by the State Department of Real Estate who owns or legally

T-331.022.014 \ 1314486_3
Council Agenda: 8-9-16
Item No.: 3.13(b)

A-24

RES NO 77896

controls a real estate brokerage business and who does not place his or
her broker's license with another person or entity as a prerequisite to
brokering the purchase or sale of real estate.

B.	The collection of the business tax imposed under Section 4.76.170 shall be
suspended with respect to the business of any real estate agent who meets all of
the following requirements:

1.	Is engaged in any business activity in the City for which a real estate
license issued by the State Department of Real Estate is required by law,
including, but not limited to, brokering the purchase, sale or lease of real
estate, engaging in property management, and originating real estate
loans;

2.	Is identified by name as an employee of a real estate broker for the
broker's business tax assessment which first becomes due concurrently
with, or within 364 days after, the agent's business tax first becomes due,
on an agent listing form submitted to the Director; and

3.	Is counted as an employee in the calculation of the amount of business
tax owing by that real estate broker for that business tax assessment.

C.	A real estate broker wishing to count real estate agents as employees for the
purpose of assessing and calculating the business tax shall submit such
information as the Director finds reasonably necessary to determine whether a
suspension of the business tax under this Section is warranted, including but not
limited to the name of the real estate agents, on an agent listing form provided by
the Director, together with the broker's application for business tax certificate or
renewal.

T-331.022.014 \ 1314486_3
Council Agenda: 8-9-16
Item No.: 3.13(b)

A-25

RD:KMM:KML
8/9/2016 '

RES NO 77896

D.	Notwithstanding Sections 4.76.030 and 4.76.040, each agent listed on the agent
listing form submitted by a broker shall be deemed to be an employee of that
broker for the broker's business tax assessment in question for the purpose of
calculating the amount of business tax owing by the broker under Section
4.76.360, regardless of the number of days or hours actually worked by the listed
agent.

E.	The amount of business tax payable by a broker who submits an agent listing
form shall be calculated by adding the number of real estate agents identified by
name on the agent listing form to the average number of employees of the broker
who are not real estate agents. The sum shall be the basis for calculating the
broker's business tax.

F.	No broker is required to submit an agent listing form; however, every real estate
agent shall be liable for payment of the agent's own business tax unless the
agent is, in fact, an employee and not in business as an individual or has been
listed on an agent listing form by a.broker who has paid a business tax which
included the listed agent.

G.	Nothing herein shall be construed as creating an exemption from or suspension
of collection of the business tax for real estate brokers.

H.	Nothing herein shall be construed as preventing a real estate agent who is not
listed on an agent listing form from providing the Director with evidence that the
agent is, in fact, an employee of the broker and, therefore, is not liable for
payment of the business tax.

I.	The designation of a real estate agent as an employee for the purposes of this
Section shall not be determinative of employment status for other purposes
under this Code or any other law.

T-331.022.014 \ 1314486_3	A-26

Council Agenda: 8-9-16

Item No.: 3.13(b)

RD:KMM:KML

8/9/2016

RES NO 77896

J. The decision of the Director as to whether a business tax shall be suspended
under this Section shall be final.

4.76.360	Businesses Taxed - Amount - Effective Dates

From and after July 1, 2017, every person engaged in business in the City, whether or
not at a fixed place of business in the City, shall annually pay to the Director the
following prescribed tax:

A.	A minimum business tax of one hundred ninety-five dollars ($195.00) per year,
plus an additional per employee tax per year in the amounts set forth below in
Subsection B., based on the average number of employees over two (2), not to
exceed a maximum of one hundred fifty thousand dollars ($150,000.00) per year,
subject to annual adjustments set forth in Section 4.76.365.

B.	The per employee tax shall be as follows:

Average Number of Employees
1-2
3-35
36-100
101-500
501 +

4.76.365 CPI Adjustments

The minimum business tax of one hundred ninety-five dollars ($195.00), the additional
tax based on the number of employees over two (2), and the cap referenced in Section

4.76.360	above, shall each be adjusted annually, commencing July 1, 2018, and every

Tax per employee
$ 0
$30
$40
$50
$60

T-331.O22.014 \ 1314486_3
Council Agenda: 8-9-16
Item No.: 3.13(b)

A-27

RD:KMM:KML

8/9/2016

RES NO 77896

year thereafter, if the cost of living in the City has increased over the preceding base
period as shown by the CPI Index, but in no event shall the adjustment exceed three
percent (3%) per year on the tax based on the number of employees, three percent
(3%) per year on the cap, and one and one-half percent (1.5%) per year on the
minimum business tax. For purposes of this Section, the base period for the first
adjustment period commencing on July 1,2018 shall be the CPI Index reported for
February 2017 to February 2018. The base period for each subsequent adjustment
period thereafter shall be February to February. In the event the CPI Index is no longer
published, the Director shall use as a reference another index published by either the
State of California or a federal department or agency that is charged with the
responsibility of measuring the cost of living in the geographical area that includes the
City.

Part 4

TAXES ON BASIS OTHER THAN AVERAGE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES

4.76.400 Rental or Lease of Residential and Nonresidential Real Estate and
IVlobilehome Parks

Every person in the City engaged in the business of renting or leasing any residential or
nonresidential real estate or mobilehome parks shall pay a business tax based on the
number of rental units, square footage of space, or lots held for rental as described in
this Part; provided, however, that if such person is engaged in a single business
operation involving a single business entity or name wherein a single set of accounting
records, bank accounts, and the like are maintained, owes a business tax calculated
pursuant to both Part 3 and Part 4, the amount of the business tax paid to the City shall
be the greater of the two calculations.

T-331.022.014 \ 1314486_3
Council Agenda: 8-9-16
Item No.: 3.13(b)

A-28

RES NO 77896

4,76,410 Rental or Lease of Residential Real Estate - Defined

A.	As used in this Chapter, residential real estate shall be defined as rooms,
apartments, single-family houses, units of any duplex, triplex or other multifamily
dwellings, or other accommodations such as, but not limited to, hotels, motels,
roominghouses, boardinghouses, lodginghouses, house courts or bungalow
courts used primarily for the purpose of human dwelling, sleeping or lodging.

B.	As used in this Chapter, the business of rental or lease of residential real estate
shall be defined as every person engaged in the business of renting or leasing
residential real estate as a lessor or sublessor in the City.

C.	As used in this Chapter, "rental unit" means a room, or two (2) or more rooms,
designed or used as a separate housing accommodation for dwelling, sleeping or
lodging purposes for one (1) person or for two (2) or more persons living
together.

4.76.420 Rental or Lease of Nonresidential Real Estate - Defined

A.	As used in this Chapter, nonresidential real estate shall be defined as any
commercial or industrial real estate, buildings or structures including, but not
limited to, real estate used for warehousing, storage, or parking lots.

B.	As used in this Chapter, the business of rental or lease of nonresidential real
estate shall be defined as every person engaged in the business of renting or
leasing nonresidential real estate as a lessor or sublessor in the City.

C.	As used in this Chapter, "square foot" or "square feet” shall be defined as the
area measured in square feet of all nonresidential buildings and structures
including each and every floor, mezzanine, basement, cellar or subterranean

T-331.022.014 \ 1314486_3
Council Agenda: 8-9-16
Item No.: 3.13(b)

A-29

RES NO 77896

levels and all land used for parking to the extent that charges are levied for such
parking. .

4.76.430 Rental or Lease of Mobilehome Parks - Defined

A.	As used in this Chapter, a mobilehome park shall be defined as any mobilehome
park, trailer park, travel trailer park, trailer court, recreational trailer park,
incidental camping areas and tent camps or any combination thereof.

B.	As used in this Chapter, the business of rental or lease of mobilehome parks
shall be defined as every person engaged in the business of renting or leasing a
mobilehome park as a lessor or sublessor in the City.

C.	As used in this Chapter, "lot" shall mean the area designated for placement of a
mobilehome, trailer, recreational vehicle orient.

4.76.440 Business Taxes - Amount - Effective Dates

A. Beginning on July 1,2017, every person engaged in the business of renting or
leasing residential real estate, nonresidential real estate, or mobile home parks
within the City shall annually pay to the Director the following prescribed tax:

1. Businesses in categories classified in Section 4.76.410 (Rental or Lease
of Residential Real Estate): a minimum business tax of one hundred
ninety-five dollars ($195.00) per year plus an additional per rental unit tax
per year in the amounts set forth below over two (2) rental units, not to
exceed a maximum of one hundred fifty thousand dollars ($150,000.00)
per year, subject to annual adjustments set forth in Section 4.76.450.

T-331.022.014 \ 1314486_3
Council Agenda: 8-9-16
Item No.: 3.13(b)

A-30

RES NO 77896

	Number of Rental Units (Residential) Tax per Rental Unit 1-2 $ 0 3-35 $10 36-100 $15 101-500 $20 501+ $25
2.	Businesses in categories classified in Section 4.76.420 (Rental or Lease of Nonresidential Real Estate): a minimum business tax of one hundred ninety-five dollars ($195.00) per year plus an additional per rental unit tax per year in the amount of 2.5 cents ($0,025) per square foot, not to exceed one hundred fifty thousand dollars ($150,000.00) per year, subject to annual adjustments set forth in Section 4.76.450.
3.	Businesses in categories classified in Section 4.76.430 (Rental or Lease of Mobilehome Parks): a minimum business tax of one hundred ninety-five dollars ($195.00) per year plus an additional per rental lot tax per year in the amount often dollars ($10.00) per rental lot over two (2) lots, not to exceed a maximum of one hundred fifty thousand dollars ($150,000.00) per year, subject to annual adjustments set forth in Section 4.76.450.
	Number of Lots (Mobilehome Parks) Tax per Lot 1-2 $ 0 3 or more $10

4.76.450 CPI Adjustments

The minimum business tax, the additional tax based on the number of rental units, lots,
square feet, and the cap referenced in Section 4.76.440 above, shall each be adjusted
annually, commencing July 1,2018, and every year thereafter, if the cost of living in the

T-331.022.014 \1314486_3	A-31

Council Agenda: 8-9-16
Item No.: 3.13(b)

RES NO 77896

RD:KMM:KML
8/9/2016

City has increased over the preceding base period as shown by the CPI Index, but in no
event shall the adjustment exceed three percent (3%) per year on the tax based on the
number of rental units, lots, and square feet, and three percent (3%) per year on the
cap, and one and one-half percent (1.5%) per year on the minimum business tax. For
purposes of this Section, the base period for the first adjustment period commencing on
July 1, 2018 shall be the CPI Index reported for February 2017 to February 2018. The
base period for each subsequent adjustment period thereafter shall be February to
February. In the event the CPI Index is no longer published, the Director shall use as a
reference another index published by either the State of California or a federal
department or agency that is charged with the responsibility of measuring the cost of
living in the geographical area that includes the City.

4.76.460 Rental or Lease of Real Property to Exempt Organizations, Businesses
or Entities

The rental or lease of real property to governmental entities or any other businesses or
organizations listed in Part 5 of this Chapter shall be considered a business for
purposes of this Chapter.

4.76.470 Real Property - Description Requirements

Each person who is liable for a business tax pursuant to this Chapter shall file with the
business tax application a separate list of real estate owned, leased or rented in the City
by street address and by County Assessor parcel number for each lot or space held for
rental or lease and a complete list of lessees or sublessees for each property.

4.76.480 Water Companies

Every person engaged in the business of a public water utility in the City shall pay a
minimum business tax of one hundred ninety-five dollars ($195.00) per year plus an

T-331.022.014 \1314486_3
Council Agenda: 8-9-16
Item No.: 3.13(b)

A-32

RD:KMM:KML

8/9/2016

RES NO 77896

additional tax based upon the number of active metered connections within the City, at
the rate of one dollar ($1.00) per connection per year, not to exceed a maximum of one
hundred fifty thousand dollars ($150,000.00) per year, subject to annual adjustments set
forth in Section 4.76.485.

4.76.485 CPI Adjustments

The minimum business tax, the per connection tax, and the cap referenced in Section
4.76.480 above, shall each be adjusted annually, commencing July 1, 2018, and every
year thereafter, if the cost of living in the City has increased over the preceding base
period as shown by the CPI Index, but in no event shall the adjustment exceed three
percent (3%) per year on the tax based on the number of active metered connections,
and three percent (3%) per year on the cap, and one and one-half percent (1.5%) per
year on the minimum business tax. For purposes of this Section, the base period for
the first adjustment period commencing on July 1,2018 shall be the CPI Index reported
for February 2017 to February 2018. The base period for each subsequent adjustment
period thereafter shall be February to February. In the event the CPI Index is no longer
published, the Director shall use as a reference another index published by either the
State of California or a federal department or agency that is charged with the
responsibility of measuring the cost of living in the geographical area that includes the
City.

4.76.490 Solid Waste Disposal Facilities

A. For the purposes of this Section, "solid waste disposal facility" means any facility
or location where disposal of solid waste occurs. "Solid waste disposal facility"
does not include a facility utilized to receive solid wastes for the purpose of
recycling, separation or other processing of the materials in the solid wastes, or
for the purpose of transferring the solid wastes directly from smaller to larger

T-331.022.014 \ 1314486_3
Council Agenda: 8-9-16
Item No.: 3.13(b)

A-33

RES NO 77896

vehicles for transport, where the permanent disposal of solid wastes on the site
does not occur.

B.	For the purposes of this Section, "Solid Waste Facilities Permit" means a permit
issued for the operation of a solid waste facility pursuant to California
Government Code Section 66796.30 et seq.

C.	For the purposes of this Section, solid waste disposal facilities shall be
categorized as follows:

1.	Category A solid waste disposal facility is a facility which, pursuant to its
Solid Waste Facilities Permit, is permitted to accept garbage, as defined in
Chapter 9.08 of this Code, for disposal on site.

2.	Category B solid waste disposal facility is a facility which, pursuant to its
Solid Waste Facilities Permit, is permitted to accept only nonhazardous
solid wastes, other than garbage, for disposal on site.

D.	Beginning July 1, 1989, every person engaged in the business of operating a
solid waste disposal facility shall pay a monthly business tax as follows:

1.	For operators of Category A solid waste disposal facilities, the tax rate
shall be three dollars ($3.00) per ton of solid waste accepted at the facility
site during the month for which the tax is paid.

2.	For operators of Category B solid waste disposal facilities, the tax rate
shall be two dollars and ten cents ($2.10) per ton of solid waste accepted
at the facility site during the month for which the tax is paid.

T-331.022.014 \1314486_3
Council Agenda: 8-9-16
Item No.: 3.13(b)

A-34

E.	Except as provided in Subsection F. below, the solid waste facility operator shall
weigh all solid waste, including that which is recyclable, accepted at the solid
waste disposal facility. The waste shall be weighed at a scale which is certified
annually by the Santa Clara County Agricultural Commissioner/Sealer of Weights
and Measures. Proof of annual certification shall be submitted to the director of
the City department designated by the City Manager.

F.	Wastes which are brought to the solid waste facility in small loads need not be
.weighed by the solid waste facility operator in cases where the weighing of such
wastes would impede or interfere with the efficient operation of the solid waste
disposal facility. The operator shall report to the Director the number of small
loads accepted at the solid waste facility during the month for which the business
tax is paid and the volume (in cubic yards) of waste in each small load, and shall
include such wastes in the calculation of the tax at two hundred fifty (250) pounds
per small load. For the purposes of this Section, "small load" shall mean a
delivery of waste in an amount less than or equal to one (1) ton.

G.	A solid waste disposal facility operator who performs recycling processing of
solid waste at the solid waste disposal facility may, in accordance with this
Subsection, subtract from the quantity of solid waste subject to the business tax
under Subsection D. above, the number of tons of recycled materials that have
been processed at the facility during the month for which the tax is paid.

1. Where the solid waste disposal facility includes a certified recycling

processing area separate from the solid waste disposal area, the quantity
of solid waste accepted at the facility and taken directly to the certified
recycling processing area may be subtracted from the quantity of solid
waste subject to the tax. Residues from a certified recycling processing
area shall be weighed prior to disposal at the disposal area and the
quantity of residues disposed of shall be subject to the tax. No solid waste

T-331.022.014 \ 1314486_3
Council Agenda: 8-9-16
Item No.: 3.13(b)

A-35'

RD:KMM:KML

8/9/2016

RES NO 77896

disposal facility operator shall subtract any wastes taken to the recycling
processing area from the quantity subject to the tax unless the recycling
processing area has been certified by the director of the City department
designated by the City Manager in accordance with rules and regulations
promulgated by said director.

2. Where the operation of the solid waste disposal facility includes salvaging
recyclable material from the solid wastes taken to the disposal area of the
facility, the quantity of salvaged materials that are shipped off site may be
subtracted from the quantity of solid waste subject to the tax. For the
purposes of this Section, "salvaging" shall mean the controlled removal of
waste material from the solid waste taken to the disposal area of the
facility where such removal is for the purpose of recycling the removed
waste material.

H.	The solid waste disposal facility operator may subtract from the quantity of solid
waste subject to the business tax under Subsection D. above: (1) the number of
tons of cover material that originates from any location offsite, and (2) the
number of tons of inert construction material that originates from any location off
site. For the purposes of this Section:

1.	"Cover material" means soils or other materia! suitable for use in covering
compacted solid wastes in a solid waste disposal facility which the facility
operator uses on site for cover purposes.

2.	"Inert construction material" means inert material such as rock, concrete,
asphalt and dirt which is used for on-site construction purposes such as
internal roads and tipping or dumping pads.

T-331.022.014 \1314486_3
Council Agenda: 8-9-16
Item No.: 3.13(b)

A-36

RES NO 77896

I.	The solid waste disposal facility operator shall submit to the City, at the same
time as such operator remits payment of the tax imposed by this Section, a
statement, together with supporting documentation, specifying for the month for
which the tax is paid: (1) the total tonnage of solid waste accepted at the facility;
(2) the total tonnage of solid waste accepted at the facility and taken directly to a
certified recycling processing area; (3) the total tonnage of material salvaged
from the solid wastes accepted at the facility; (4) the total tonnage of recycled
material shipped off site; and (5) the total tonnage of cover material and inert
construction material that originated from any location offsite and was accepted
at the facility.

J.	The solid waste disposal facility operator shall keep and maintain at the local
office of the solid waste facility all records relating to any and all wastes received
at or disposed of on the facility site, including but not limited to weight receipts for
solid wastes accepted at the facility and weight receipts for recycled materials
shipped off site. Such records shall be kept and maintained for not less than
three (3) years from the date such wastes were received or disposed of. All
records pertaining to the tonnages of solid wastes accepted at the facility site,
tonnages of recycled materials shipped off site, and tonnages of cover and inert
construction material used on site shall be available for inspection by the
Director, the director of the City department designated by the City Manager, the
City Auditor, the City Attorney and their designees, upon written notice to the
solid waste disposal facility operator.

4.76.495 Suspension of Business Tax on Solid Waste Disposal Facilities

The tax imposed by Section 4.76.490 shall be suspended as of July 1,1992, and shall
remain suspended as long as the disposal facility tax imposed by Chapter 4.78 of this
Code remains in effect and in lieu of the tax imposed by Section 4.76.490 the solid
waste disposal facility operator shall pay the tax imposed by Chapter 4.78.

T-331.022.014 \ 1314486_3
Council Agenda: 8-9-16
Item No.: 3.13(b)

A-37

RD:KMM:KML

8/9/2016

RES NO 77896

Part 5
EXEMPTIONS

4.76.600 Exemptions - General

Except as may be otherwise specifically provided in this Chapter, the terms hereof shall
not be deemed or construed to apply to any person when imposition of the tax upon that
person would violate the Constitution of the United States or that of the State of
California or preemptive federal or state law.

4.76.610 Exemptions - Application - Issuance Conditions

Any person desiring to claim exemption from the payment of the business tax shall
make application therefor upon forms prescribed by the Director and shall furnish such
information and make such affidavits as may be required. Upon the determination being
made that the applicant is entitled to exemption from the payment of the business tax
for any reason set forth in this Chapter, the Director shall issue a business tax certificate
free to such person, which shall show upon its face that the business is exempt from
payment of the tax.

4.76.620 Exemptions - Grounds for Revocation - Notice - Rights of Hearing and
Appeal

A.	The Director may revoke any business tax certificate issued pursuant to Section
4.76.610, upon information that an exemption from payment of the tax is not
warranted.

B.	Notice of revocation shall be given in the same manner and within the same time
period as is provided for notices of assessment in Sections 4.76.850 through

T-331.022.014 \ 1314486_3
Council Agenda: 8-9-16
Item No.: 3.13(b)

A-38

RD:KMM:KML

8/9/2016

RES NO 77896

4.76.870, and the person to whom the notice of revocation was issued shall have
the same right of hearing and of appeal as is provided in Sections 4.76.850
through 4.76.870.

4.76.630 Definition of Receipts for Private Gain

For the purposes of Sections 4.76.640 and 4.76.650, the payment of necessary
expenses incurred in the conducting or staging of any amusement or entertainment,
concert, exhibition, lecture, dance or athletic event from the receipts derived therefrom
shall not be deemed to be the use of receipts for private gain of any person.

4.76.640 Exemptions - Certain Organizations - Entertainments or Activities
Permitted When

The following organizations or associations shall be exempt from the payment of any
business tax imposed by the provisions of this Chapter upon any of the following
businesses, entertainments or activities:

A.	Any religious, fraternal, student cooperative, educational, military, state, county
or municipal organization or association for the conducting of any business,
which business is open to the members thereof only and not open to the public;

B.	Any religious, fraternal, educational, military, state, county or municipal
organization or association for the conducting or staging of any amusement or
entertainment, concert, exhibition, lecture, dance or athletic event, when the
receipts derived are to be used wholly for the benefit of such organization and
not for private gain of any person;

C.	Any student organization, association or cooperative sanctioned by the
educational institution from which the membership is drawn, for the conducting or

T-331.022.014 \1314486_3	A-39

Council Agenda: 8-9-16
Item No.: 3.13(b)

RD:KMM:KML

8/9/2016

RES NO 77896

staging of any amusement or entertainment, concert, exhibition, lecture, dance or
athletic event, when the receipts derived are to be used wholly for the benefit of
such organization and not for private gain of any person;

D.	Any organization or association for the conducting or staging of any amusement
or entertainment, concert, exhibition, lecture, dance or athletic event, when the
use of the premises upon which such activity is conducted or staged is a
municipal use. "Municipal use" means a use or performance which benefits the
City as a whole or an organization or activity which benefits the City as a whole,
and which is sponsored by an organization deriving all or part of its income from
the City, or is for the benefit of an organization or activity supported in whole or
part by the City.

4.76.650 Exemptions - Charitable Entertainments

Any person conducting or staging any concert, exhibition, lecture, dance, amusement or
entertainment where the receipts, if any, derived therefrom are to be used solely for
charitable or benevolent purposes and not for private gain shall be exempt from the
payment of any business tax under the provisions of this Chapter.

4.76.660 Exemptions - Charitable Organizations

The following organizations shall be exempt from the payment of a business tax under
the provisions of this Chapter: Any charitable institution, organization or association
organized for charitable purposes only.

4.76.670 Exemptions - Employees of Certain Organizations

Any natural person engaged in any of the businesses, professions or occupations
mentioned in Sections 4.76.630 through 4.76.660 and 4.76.710 through 4.76.730, solely

T-331.022.014 \ 1314486_3	A-40

Council Agenda: 8-9-16
Item No.: 3.13(b)

RD:KMM:KML

8/9/2016

RES NO 77896

as an employee of any other person conducting, managing or carrying on any such
business in the City, and not an owner, partner, associate or principal in such business,
shall be exempt from payment of any business tax on the business, profession or
occupation.

4.76.680 Exemptions - Farmers and Poultrymen

The provisions of this Chapter shall not be construed as requiring farmers, poultrymen
or horticulturists residing and doing business in Santa Clara County to pay a business
tax under this Chapter for the privilege of selling exclusively their own products. This
exemption shall not apply to nurseries or other commercial establishments who buy
goods for resale as well as selling their own produce.

4.76.690 Exemptions - Interstate Commerce

Every peddler, solicitor or other person claiming to be entitled to exemption from the
payment of any business tax provided for in this Chapter upon the ground that such tax
casts a burden upon the right to engage in commerce with foreign nations or among the
several states, or conflicts with the regulations of the United States Congress respecting
interstate commerce, shall file a verified statement with the Director, disclosing the
interstate or other character of the business entitling such exemption. Such statement
shall state the name and location of the company or firm for which the orders are to be
solicited or secured, the name of the nearest local or state manager, if any, and the
address, the kind of goods, wares or merchandise to be delivered, the place from which
the same are to be shipped or forwarded, the method of solicitation or taking orders, the
location of any warehouse, factory or plant within the State of California, the method of
delivery, the name and address of the applicant, and any other facts necessary to
establish such claim of exemption. A copy of the order blank, contract form or other
papers used by such person in taking orders shall be attached to the affidavit for the
information of the Director.

T-331.022.014 \ 1314486_3	A-41

Council Agenda: 8-9-16
Item No.: 3.13(b)

RD:KMM:KML

8/9/2016

RES NO 77896

4.76.695 Exemptions - Occasional Transactions

A.	The provisions of this Chapter shall not apply to persons having no fixed place of
business within the City who come into the City for the purpose of transacting a
specific item of business at the request of a specific patient, client or customer,
provided that such person does not come into the City for the purpose of
transacting business on more than five (5) days during any calendar year.

B.	For any person not having a fixed place of business within the City who comes
into the City for the purpose of transacting business and who is not exempt as
provided in Subsection A., of this Section, the business tax payable by such
person may be apportioned by the Director in accordance with administrative
rules promulgated pursuant to Section 4.76.760.

4.76.710 Exemptions - Peddling of Goods by Producer

Every natural person peddling any goods or wares made or produced solely by such
person shall be exempt from the payment of any business tax on such peddling
business imposed under the provisions of this Chapter.

4.76.715 Exemption - Sale of Hand-Produced Goods

Artists and craftspersons who sell only their own designed, hand-produced goods and
wares shall be exempt from payment of any business tax under the provisions of this
Chapter if either of the following is established by the person claiming the exemption to
the satisfaction of the Director:

T-331.022.014 \ 1314486_3
Council Agenda: 8-9-16
Item No.: 3.13(b)

A-42

RD:KMM:KML

8/9/2016

RES NO 77896

A.	Sale of goods and wares in the artist's or craftsperson's dwelling under San Jose
Municipal Code Section 20.30.110 for a period of no more than four (4)
consecutive days twice in any calendar year; or

B.	Continuous sale of goods and wares on an annual basis at only one (1) location
so long as the retail value of inventory at such location does not exceed two
thousand dollars ($2,000.00).

4.76.720 Exemptions - Senior Citizens

Every natural person of the age sixty-five (65) years or over whose annual gross
receipts, as defined in Section 4.76.345 B.2., from any and all business are six
thousand six hundred dollars ($6,600.00) or less shall be exempt from payment of any
business tax under the provisions in this Chapter. The limits described in this Section
shall be changed concurrently with changes made by the Social Security Administration
regulating allowable earnings not affecting payment of social security retirement
benefits.

4.76.730 Exemptions - Teachers - Conditions

The provisions of this Chapter shall not require the payment of a tax for the teaching of
musical, artistic or educational subjects when the following conditions exist:

A.	The teaching is done at the residence of the teacher or at the residence of the
pupil; and

B.	The teacher employs no assistants, does not display an advertising sign at the
residence, and does not make a general practice of ^selling merchandise in
connection with the teaching.

T-331.022.014 \ 1314486_3
Council Agenda: 8-9-16
Item No.: 3.13(b)

A-43

RD:KMM:KML

8/9/2016

RES NO 77896

4.76.740	Exemptions - Business Conducted at Certain City Facilities

A.	Any business that is conducted at the California Theatre, Center for the
Performing Arts, San Jose Civic Auditorium, San Jose Convention Center, or
other City owned convention or cultural facilities pursuant to authorization or
permission (by contract, permit, or otherwise) by the City to use or occupy any of
such facilities for the purpose of conducting such business therein shall, but only
to the extent such business is conducted therein, be exempt from payment of any
business tax on such business conducted therein. This exemption applies only to
business conducted at such facilities, and to the extent that any business to
which this exemption applies also involves or includes the conducting of business
at locations in the City other than such facilities, the business conducted at such
other locations shall remain subject to payment of the business tax imposed
under this Chapter. This exemption shall not apply to any business conducted at

such facilities pursuant to a contract with the City having a term in excess of one

/

(1) year and providing for the conducting of such business at such facilities
. during the term of such contract.

B.	The exemption provided for in this Section shall not be deemed or construed to
apply to construction, repair, custodial, or maintenance work done at such
facilities. The provisions of Section 4.76.610 shall not apply with respect to the
exemption provided for in this Section.

4.76.741	Exemption - Vendors - Annual or Special Events Conducted by
Nonprofit or Charitable Organizations

The provisions of this Chapter shall apply to any person conducting a business for profit
while said person is participating in a crafts fair, exhibition, parade, celebration, dance,
amusement, entertainment, or other event consisting of a collection of food, beverage,
art, crafts, or souvenir sales by various individuals or persons, when said crafts fair, .

T-331.022.014 \ 1314486J3
Council Agenda: 8-9-16
Item No.: 3.13(b)

A-44

RD:KMM:KML

8/9/2016

RES NO 77896

exhibition, .parade, celebration, dance, amusement, entertainment, or other event is
conducted by a nonprofit or charitable organization, association, or institution, unless
otherwise exempted. Vendors shall be exempted from the payment of the business tax
while participating in such specified events if they meet all of the requirements for an
exemption established by the Director, the City Director of Economic Development, and
the nonprofit or charitable organization conducting the event. This exemption shall be
for the duration of the event only.

4.76.745	Family Day Care Home Exemption

Every person operating a Family Day Care Home, as that term is defined in Article 1 of
Chapter 3.4 of Division 2 of the California Health and Safety Code, having fourteen (14)
or fewer children under the age of eighteen (18) years shall be exempt from the
payment of any business tax imposed under the provisions of this Chapter.

4.76.746	Family Caregiver Exemption

A.	Any family member who receives compensation for providing care services to
another family member who is ill and/or elderly shall be exempt from the payment
of any business tax imposed under the provisions of this Chapter as a result of
receiving compensation for the provision of such care.

B.	For purposes of this Section, the following definitions apply:

1. "Care services" means assistance with one (1) or more of the following:
dressing, feeding, toileting, bathing, grooming, mobility, monitoring or
supervising daily living activities and related tasks.

T-331.022.014 \ 1314486_3	A-45

Council Agenda: 8-9-16
Item No.: 3.13(b)

RD:KMM:KML

8/9/2016

RES NO 77896

2.	"Family member" means a spouse, domestic partner, parent, step-parent,
aunt, uncle, sibling, child, the lineal ancestor or descendant of each of
these, and legal guardian.

3.	"Domestic partners" has the meaning defined in Section 4.76.115.

4.76.748 Police Officers Engaged in Secondary Employment While in Uniform
Exemption

Any City of San Jose police officer or reserve police officer who, in conformance with
California Penal Code Section 70 and the policies and procedures of the City and the
San Jose Police Department, engages in secondary employment as a private security
guard with a state agency, local agency, or a private employer in a police uniform shall
be exempt from the payment of the business tax imposed under the provisions of this
Chapter.

Part 6

ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT

4.76,750 Enforcement - Duties of Director of Finance and Chief of Police

It shall be the duty of the Director, and he or she is hereby directed, to enforce each and
all of the provisions of this Chapter, and the Chief of Police shall render such assistance
in the enforcement of this Chapter as may from time to time be required by the Director.

4.76.760 Rules and Regulations - Apportionment

For purposes of apportionment as may be required by law, and for purposes of
administration and enforcement of this Chapter generally, the Director, with the

T-331.022.014 \ 1314486_3
Council Agenda: 8-9-16
item No.: 3.13(b)

A-46

RD:KMM:KML

8/9/2016

RES NO 77896

concurrence of the City Attorney, may from time to time promulgate administrative rules
and regulations.

4.76.770 Inspection of Business Tax Certificates

The Director and all of his or her deputies shall have the power and authority to enter,
free of charge, during business hours, any place of business taxed by the provisions of
this Chapter and to demand exhibition of a business tax certificate and evidence of
amount of tax paid. Any person to whom a business tax certificate has been issued and
who fails to exhibit the business tax certificate or to provide evidence of the amount of
the business tax paid in response to a lawful demand shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.

4.76.780 Inspection and Examination of Places of Business

The Director, in the exercise of the duties imposed upon him or her, and acting through
his or her deputies, shall have the authority to inspect and examine all places of
business in the City to ascertain whether or not the provisions of this Chapter have been
complied with.

4.76.790 Audit and Examination of Records and Equipment

The Director and his or her deputies shall have the power to audit and examine all
books and records, and, where necessary, all equipment, of any person engaged in
business in the City, for the purpose of ascertaining the amount of business tax, if any,
required to be paid by the provisions hereof, and for the purpose of verifying any
statements or any item thereof when filed by any person pursuant to the provisions of
this Chapter. If such person, after written demand by the Director, or his or her deputy,
refuses to make available for audit, examination or verification such books, records or
equipment as the Director or his or her deputy requests, the Director may, after full
consideration of all information within his or her knowledge concerning the business and

T-331.022.014 \ 1314486_3
Council Agenda: 8-9-16
Item No.: 3.13(b)

A-47

RD:KMM:KML

8/9/2016

RES NO 77896

activities of the person so refusing, make an assessment in the manner provided in
Sections 4.76.850 through 4.76.870 of any taxes estimated to be due.

4.76.800 Tax Deemed Debt to City

The amount of any business tax, penalties and interest imposed by the provisions of
this Chapter shall be deemed a debt to the City and any person carrying on any
business without first having procured a business tax certificate under this Chapter from
the City so to do shall be liable to an action in the name of the City in any court of
competent jurisdiction for the amount of the tax, and penalties and interest imposed on
such business.

4.76.810 Liability - Evidence of Doing Business

In any action brought under or arising out of any of the provisions of this Chapter, the
fact that a party thereto represented that the party engaged in any business for the
transaction of which a business tax certificate is required hereunder, or that such party
exhibited a sign indicating such business, shall be conclusive evidence of the liability of
such party to pay a business tax for such business.

4.76.820 Reserved

4.76.840 Deficiency Determinations

If the Director is not satisfied that any statement filed as required under the provisions of
this Chapter is correct, or that the amount of tax is correctly computed, he or she may
compute and determine the amount to be paid and make a deficiency determination
upon the basis of the facts contained in the statement or upon the basis of any
information in his or her possession or that may come into his or her possession. One
(1) or more deficiency determinations of the amount of tax due for a period or periods

T-331.022.014 \ 1314486_3	A-48

Council Agenda: 8-9-16
Item No.: 3.13(b)

RD:KMM:KML

8/9/2016

RES NO 77896

may be made. When a person discontinues engaging in a business, a deficiency
determination may be made at any time within three (3) years thereafter as to any
liability arising from engaging in such business whether or. not a deficiency
determination is issued prior to the date the tax would otherwise be due. Whenever a
deficiency determination is made, a notice shall be given to.the person concerned in the
same manner as notices of assessment are given under Sections 4.76.850 through
4.76.870.

4.76.850 Tax Assessment - Authorized When - Nonpayment - Fraud

A. Under any of the following circumstances, the Director may make and give notice

of an assessment of the amount of tax owed by a person under this Chapter:

1.	If the person has not filed any statement or return required under the
provisions of this Chapter;

2.	If the person has not paid any tax due under the provisions of this
Chapter;

3.	If the person has not, after demand by the Director, filed a corrected
statement or return, or furnished to the Director adequate substantiation of
the information contained in a statement or return already filed, or paid
any additional amount of tax due under the provisions of this Chapter;

4.	If the Director determines that the nonpayment of any business tax due
under this Chapter is due to fraud, a penalty of twenty-five percent (25%)
of the amount of the tax shall be added thereto in addition to penalties and
interest otherwise stated in this Chapter;

T-331.022.014 \ 1314486_3
Council Agenda: 8-9-16
' Item No.: 3.13(b)

A-49

RES NO 77896

8/9/2016

5.	Nonpayment of all or any portion of the business tax due shall invalidate
any certificate previously issued to the taxpayer by the City.

B. The notice of assessment shall separately set forth the amount of any tax known
by the Director to be due or estimated by the Director, after consideration of all
information within his or her knowledge concerning the business and activities of
the person assessed, to be due under each applicable section of this Chapter,
and shall include the amount of any penalties or interest accrued on each
amount to the date of the notice of assessment.

4.76.860 Tax Assessment - Notice Requirements

The notice of assessment shall be served upon the person either by handing it to the
person, or by a deposit of the notice in the United States mail, postage prepaid thereon,
addressed to the person at the address of the location of the business appearing on the
face of the business tax certificate issued to the person or to such other address as the
person registered with the Director for the purpose of receiving notices provided under
this Chapter; or, should the person have no business tax certificate and should the
person have no address registered with the Director for such purpose, then to such
person's last known address. For the purposes of this Section, a service by mail is
complete at the time of deposit in the United States mail.

4.76.870 Tax Assessment - Hearing - Application and Determination

Within ten (10) days after the date of service, the person may apply in writing to the
Director for a hearing on the assessment. If application for a hearing before the City is
not made within the time herein prescribed, the business tax assessed by the Director
shall become final and conclusive. Within thirty (30) days of the receipt of any such
application for hearing, the Director shall cause the matter to be set for hearing before
him or her not later than thirty (30) days after the date of application, unless a later date

T-331.022.014 \ 1314486_3
Council Agenda: 8-9-16
Item No.: 3.13(b) ■

A-50

RD:KMM:KML

8/9/2016

RES NO 77896

is agreed to by the Director and the person requesting the hearing. Notice of such
hearing shall be given by the Director to the person requesting such hearing not later
than five (5) days prior to such hearing. At such hearing applicant may appear and offer
evidence why the assessment as made by the Director should not be confirmed and
fixed as the tax due. After such hearing the Director shall determine and reassess the
proper tax to be charged and shall give written notice to the person in the manner
prescribed in Section 4.76.860 for giving notice of assessment.

4.76.890 Conviction for Chapter Violation - Taxes Not Waived

The conviction and punishment of any person for failure to pay the required business
tax shall not excuse or exempt such person from any civil action for the business tax
debt unpaid at the time of such conviction. No civil action shall prevent a criminal
prosecution for any violation of the provisions of this Chapter or of any state law
requiring the payment of all taxes.

4.76.900 Violation Deemed Misdemeanor - Penalty

Any person violating any of the provisions of this Chapter or any regulation or rule
passed in accordance herewith, or knowingly or intentionally misrepresenting to any
officer or employee of this City any material fact in procuring the business tax certificate
herein provided for shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction
thereof shall be punishable by a fine or by imprisonment, or by both such fine and
imprisonment as set forth in Chapter 1.08 of this Code.

4.76.910 Operative Date

The operative date of this Chapter shall be July 1, 2017.

T-331.022.014 \ 1314486_3
Council Agenda: 8-9-16
Item No.: 3.13(b)

A-51

RES NO 77896

RD:KMM:KML
8/9/2016

4.76.920 Application of Chapter - Payment of Tax

A.	If approved by a majority of the voters at the November 2016 general election,
the provisions of this Chapter shall go into effect on July 1, 2017. Persons
engaged in business in the City with a business tax payment due date on or after
July 1, 2017, shall be responsible for calculating and paying the business tax
pursuant to this Chapter.

B.	Prior to the Operative Date of this Chapter, the City will make available an Online
Filing System. The failure to provide an Online Filing System for whatever
reason, including, without limitation, technical failure, shall not excuse either the
obligation to file an application for a business tax certificate or pay the business
tax, including any interest and penalties, in a timely manner as required under
this Chapter.

4.76.930 Severability

Should any provision of this Chapter, or its application to any person or circumstance,
be determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be unlawful, unenforceable or
otherwise void, that determination shall have no effect on any other provision of this
Chapter or the application of this Chapter to any other person or circumstance and, to
that end, the provisions hereof are severable.

4.76.940 Effect of State and Federal Reference / Authorization

Unless specifically provided otherwise, any reference to a state or federal statute in this
Chapter shall mean such statute as it may be amended from time to time, provided that
such reference to a statute herein shall not include any amendment thereto, or to any
change of interpretation thereto by a state or federal agency or court of law with the duty
to interpret such law, to the extent that such amendment or change of interpretation

T-331.022.014 \1314486_3
Council Agenda: 8-9-16
Item No.: 3.13(b)

A-52

RD:KMM:KML

8/9/2016

RES NO 77896

would, under California law, require voter approval of such amendment or interpretation,
or to the extent that such change would result in a tax decrease. To the extent voter
approval would otherwise be required or a tax decrease would result, the prior version
of the statute (or interpretation) shall remain applicable; for any application or situation
that would not require voter approval or result in a decrease of a tax, provisions of the
amended statute (or new interpretation) shall be applicable to the maximum possible
extent.

To the extent that the City's authorization to collect or impose any tax imposed under
this Chapter is expanded as a result of changes in state or federal law, no amendment
or modification of this Chapter shall be required to conform the tax to those changes,
and the tax shall be imposed and collected to the full extent of the authorization up to
the full amount of the tax imposed under this Chapter.

4.76.950 Subject to Annual City Audits

Pursuant to Section 1215 of the City's Charter, as may be amended, the revenues from
the tax imposed by this Chapter shall be subject to the annual audit performed by the
City's independent auditor of the City's municipal books, records, accounts and fiscal
procedures and which is reported in the City's Comprehensive Annual Financial Report.

4.76.960 Remedies Cumulative

All remedies and penalties prescribed by this Chapter or which are available under any
other provision of law or equity, including but not limited to the California False Claims
Act (Government Code Section 12650 et seq.) and the California Unfair Practices Act
(Business and Professions Code Section 17070 et seq.), are cumulative. The use of
one (1) or more remedies by the City shall not bar the use of any other remedy for the
purpose of enforcing the provisions of this Chapter.

T-331.022.014 \ 1314486_3
Council Agenda: 8-9-16
Item No.: 3.13(b)

A-53

RD:KMM:KML

8/9/2016

RES NO 77896

4.76.970 Amendment or Repeal

This Chapter may be repealed or amended by the City Council without a vote of the
people. However, as required by Chapter XIIIC of the California Constitution, voter
approval is required for any amendment provision that would increase the rate of any
tax levied pursuant to this Chapter. The people of the City of San Jose affirm that the
following actions shall not constitute an increase of the rate of a tax:

A.	The restoration of the rate of the tax to a rate that is no higher than that set by
this Chapter, if the City Council has acted to reduce the rate of the tax;

B.	An action that interprets or clarifies the methodology of the tax, or any definition
applicable to the tax, so long as interpretation or clarification (even if contrary to
some prior interpretation or clarification) is not inconsistent with the language of
this Chapter;

C.	The establishment of a class of person that is exempt or excepted from the tax or
the discontinuation of any such exemption or exception (other than the
discontinuation of an exemption or exception specifically set forth in this
Chapter); or

D.	The collection of the tax imposed by this Chapter, even if the City had, for some
period of time, failed to collect the tax.

T-331.022.014 \1314486_3	A-54

Council Agenda: 8-9-16
Item No.: 3.13(b)