MEASURE

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

The City Council of the City of Sanger has placed Measure______on the November 8, 2016, ballot. If

approved by two-thirds (2/3) of the City voters, this Measure will reauthorize and extend the existing
three-fourths (3/4) cent transactions and use tax (i.e. “sales tax”) for Public Safety for ten (10) years.

Existing Law

In 2008, the City voters adopted a sales tax measure which is codified as an ordinance in the Sanger City
Code as the “Sanger Police, Fire, Paramedic 9-1-1 Emergency Response and Gang/Drug Prevention
Special Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance.” The ordinance expires on June 30, 2018.

As a special tax, all proceeds from the Public Safety Tax must be accounted for and are restricted for use
only on Police, Fire, Paramedic, 9-1-1 Emergency, and Gang/Drug Prevention Services. The ordinance
provides that its intent is to “supplement” not “supplant” expenditures for Public Safety which existed at
the time the ordinance was adopted. It expressly provides that the revenues collected cannot be spent on
department administrators’ salaries or General Fund operating expenses in effect at the time the ordinance
became effective or on projects not part of the Public Safety Measure Police and Fire Expenditure Plan.

Under the ordinance, “Public Safety Services” means: (i) Obtaining, furnishing, operating, and/or
maintaining police protection equipment or apparatus, paying the salaries and benefits of police protection
personnel, and such other police protection service expenses, including capital expenses, as are deemed
necessary by the City Council for the benefit of City residents; and (ii) Obtaining, furnishing, operating,
and/or maintaining fire protection equipment or apparatus, paying the salaries and benefits of fire
protection personnel, and such other fire protection service expenses, including capital expenses, as are
deemed necessary by the City Council for the benefit of City residents.

The ordinance also provides for a Citizens Oversight Committee to monitor the expenditures of the
revenues collected under the special tax.

Proposed Change

If approved by the voters, the Measure will extend the current ordinance’s sunset date to June 30, 2028,
and will automatically end on that date unless extended by the voters. All other provisions of the current
ordinance will remain the same. If approved, the ordinance may not be amended or repealed except by
the City voters.

As a special tax, the Measure requires a two-thirds (2/3) vote of the persons voting at the election to pass.
A “Yes” vote on the Measure extends the existing Public Safety Tax ordinance for ten years. A “No”
vote is a vote against the extension of the ordinance.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure _______. If you desire a full copy of the

ordinance or measure, please call the Sanger City Clerk at (559) 876-6300 and a copy will be mailed
at no cost to you. The ordinance is also available online on the City’s website at
www.ci.sanger.ca.us or by clicking “county clerk/registrar of voters” at www.co.fresno.ca.us.

Hilda Cantu Montoy
City Attorney