MEASURE K
CITY OF OAKLEY

To replace the small, outdated Oakley Library currently
utilizing a portion of Freedom High School and construct
and operate a new Library and Community Learning
Center downtown, shall the ordinance establishing a
$7.75 per month per parcel Library Development Tax be
adopted, raising approximately one million one hundred
thousand dollars annually, for thirty years starting fiscal
year 2016/17, with independent financial audits ensuring
funds are spent only on the Oakley Library and Community
Learning Center?

CITY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF
MEASURE K

In 1999, Oakley's Community Library moved to
Freedom High School with the expectation that the move
would be a temporary one. Nearly 17 years later, the
library continues to be located at Freedom High School,
and because limitations due to this location, is unable to
provide the desired levels of collection, technology, space,
parking, and visibility. The current location of the library
has no community meeting rooms and only one electrical
outlet. The library's shelf space is exhausted, and it has no
quiet study or work spaces.

Plans prepared for the city indicate the cost to
design, construct, and furnish the new library would cost
$12 million. Measure K would impose a special tax of
$7.75 on each parcel of property within the city to finance a
new, 20,000-square foot library to be located downtown. If
Measure K is approved, the special tax of $7.75 per parcel
would be imposed for 30 years, beginning in the 2016-17
fiscal year.

Approval by two-thirds of city voters is required to
impose this tax.

Derek P. Cole
City Attorney

CC 033-021

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
MEASUREK

The current library in Oakley does not adequately meet the None Filed.

needs of our growing community. Its space is too limited

and the arrangement with Freedom High School, while

friendly, isn’t flexible enough for a full service library or right

for a high school campus. We are voting Yes for the library

Measure to fix this problem, and to support a more vibrant

Oakley and expanded useable library services.

Our Yes vote is based in the recent citizen task force report
that recommended a new Library and Learning Center for
Oakley. They conducted wide-ranging community surveys
to determine how a new, stand-alone, modern library could
meet and anticipate the needs of our growing city. The
site selection process was transparent and anticipates
continued growth in our city. We are excited by the
opportunity for Oakley. We are voting Yes because a new
library and community learning center will improve pre-k
literacy and school readiness, be a 21st century partner
in k-12 education, create a new sense of community as
a gathering place where ail our neighbors can meet, and
provide an anchor for business development in Oakley.

Studies show that libraries have a return on investment for
the community of three to six times the investment.

We are voting Yes for a new library and community learning
center that will be able to offer cultural programs such as
art displays, book signings, performances and community
events that would make Oakley great. There will be
adequate parking and easy access to downtown shopping,
dining and services. A new library and community learning
center will boost property values and make downtown
Oakley more attractive for retail businesses. For more
information: NewOakleylibrary.org

We urge a YES vote for the NEW OAKLEY LIBRARY and
COMMUNITY LEARNING CENTER.

Arthur Fernandez, OUESD Board member (former)

Joanne Byer, Member of LUHS Board of Trustees
Shirley Darling, OSC - President
Enrico E. Cinquini, 71 Year Resident
Nancy Huffaker, Oakley School District-retired teacher

ARGUMENT AGAINST
MEASUREK

FULL TEXT MEASURE K

RESOLUTION NO. 24-16

RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OF OAKLEY AUTHORIZING THE IMPOSITION
OF A SPECIAL TAX ON PARCELS OF
PROPERTY TO FINANCE THE CONSTRUCTION
AND FURNISHING OF A DOWNTOWN LIBARY
AND CALLING FOR AN ELECTION THEREON

WHEREAS, in 1999, Oakley’s Community Library moved
to Freedom High School with the expectation that this
move would be a temporary one;

WHEREAS, nearly 17 years later, the Library continues
to be located at Freedom High School, and because
limitations due to this location, is unable to provide the
desired levels of collection, technology, space, parking,
and visibility;

WHEREAS, the current location of the Library has no
community meeting rooms; the Library has only one
electrical outlet, leaving insufficient ability for persons to
use laptops, tablets, and other technology; its shelf space
is exhausted and it has no quiet study/work spaces; and
family programming time is limited, as it must be scheduled
after school hours;

WHEREAS, in light of these limitations, the City, with
considerable stakeholder and public input, undertook
an exhaustive process to evaluate the possibility of
constructing and financing a new, stand-alone library;

WHEREAS, this evaluation has shown that a new, stand-
alone library with 20,000 square feet of space can be
constructed in downtown Oakley, immediately next to City
Hall;

WHEREAS, preliminary architectural renderings for the
new Downtown Library have been prepared and a financial
evaluation has determined the cost to design, construct,
and furnish the new Library would cost $12 million;

WHEREAS, to finance the cost for this new library, the City
has determined it is necessary to impose a monthly tax on
every parcel within the City of $7.75; and

WHEREAS, in proposing that the voters of the City consider
such a special tax, the City Council finds that the adoption
of this resolution and other City acts necessary to present
the proposed tax to City voters are purely electoral and
financial matters and thus are not a “project,” as provided
for in California Environmental Quality Act Guideline
section 15378(b)(3) and (4).

NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY
OF OAKLEY HEREBY RESOLVES, DETERMINES, AND

ORDERS AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. ENACTMENT OF SPECIAL TAX

As provided for in Chapter 7 to Title 3 of the Oakley Municipal
Code, and if approved by the voters in the manner provided
for below, there is hereby enacted within the City a special
tax in the amount $7.75 per month on every parcel of
property located within the City for the purposes set forth
in Section 2.

SECTION 2. PURPOSES OF SPECIAL TAX

The purpose of the special tax authorized herein shall
be to provide funding for the planning, environmental,
engineering, administrative, and architectural services
necessary to construct and operate the Downtown Library,
as well as the construction and furnishing of the Library. All
proceeds from the special tax authorized herein shall be
used exclusively for these purposes only.

SECTION 3. METHOD OF COLLECTION

The City hereby directs the Contra Costa County Treasurer/
Tax Collector to collect the special tax authorized herein for
the initial Fiscal Year 2016-2017, on the same tax roll at
the same time and in the same manner, and subject to the
same penalties as the property taxes fixed and collected by
the County on behalf of the City. The County may deduct its
reasonable costs incurred for such services before remittal
to the District.

The special tax, together with all penalties and interest
thereon, shall constitute a lien upon each parcel of property
upon which it is levied until it has been paid, and such
special tax, together with all penalties and interest thereon,
shall, until paid, constitute a personal obligation to the City
by the person(s) who own(s) the parcel of property on the
date the special tax is due.

SECTION 4. EFFECTIVE DATE OF SPECIAL TAX

The special tax shall become effective following the
approval of this resolution and subsequent approval by two-
thirds of voters voting on proposition set forth in Section
9. If approved, the special tax shall be collected beginning
in fiscal year 2016-17. The tax shall be continued to be
collected for 30 years.

SECTION 5. SPECIAL ACCOUNT

Upon the effective date of this special tax, the City is hereby
directed to create a separate account into which all revenue
raised by the special tax shall be placed. Should any surplus
money be generated by this special tax in any year, such
surplus shall be expended in the following year, in the
discretion of the City Council, only for the purposes stated
in Section 2. In no event shall surplus money generated

CC-9007-X3

CC 033-023

by this special tax be used for any purpose other than as
authorized herein.

SECTION 6. ANNUAL REPORT

The City shall cause a report to be filed with the City
Council no later than June 30 of each year, commencing on
June 30, 2018, and at least once a year thereafter, which
shall contain both of the following: (i) the amount of funds
collected and expended under this Resolution; and (ii) the
status of any project required or authorized to be funded to
carry out the purposes set forth in this Resolution.

SECTION 7. EXEMPTIONS

The special tax authorized herein shall not be imposed
upon a federal or state agency, any local agency, or any
parcel of property which is exempt from ad valorem taxes
under any other applicable law.

SECTION 8. APPROPRIATIONS LIMIT

To the extent the Board proposes to increase the City's
spending limit under Article XIIIB of the California
Constitution, this resolution authorizes the increase of that
limit by an amount equal to the proceeds of the taxes for
the first year the special tax authorized herein is imposed.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED the

City Council hereby rescinds Resolution 19-16, adopted
on February 9, 2016, as this Resolution is intended to
replace that previous resolution.

The foregoing resolution was adopted at a regular
meeting of the City Council of the City of Oakley held on
the 23rd day of February, 2016, by the following vote:

AYES: Hardcastle, Higgins, Perry, Pope, Romick

NOES:

ABSTENTION:

ABSENT:

APPROVED:

Kevin Romick, MAYOR

ATTEST:

Libby Vreonis, CITY CLERK Date

ORDINANCE NO. 20-16

AN ORDINANCE OF THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF
OAKLEY ADOPTING CHAPTER 3.07 OF TITLE 3 OF
THE OAKLEY MUNICIPAL CODE LEVYING A UTILITY
USERS TAX ON ELECTRICITY.WATER, SEWER, GAS,
AND CABLE TELEVISION SERVICES

Th« People of the City of Oakley do ordain as follows:

8ECTION 1. Chapter 3.07 of Title 3 of the Oakley
Municipal Code is hereby adopted to read as follows:

3,07.002	Short title.

The ordinance codified in this chapter shall be
known as the “Utility Users Tax Law of the City of Oakley."

3.07.004	Purpose.

This chapter is required to impose a utility users tax
for the usual and current expenses of the City of Oakley.

3.07.006	Definitions.

Whenever used in this chapter, the following
words and phrases shall be construed as defined in this
section, unless the context plainly requires otherwise.

A.	"Cable television service" shall mean
sorvice of one or more channels of video programming
to a residence, including, but not limited to, a home,
condominium, apartment, or mobile home, where a charge
t$ made, whether directly or as included in dues or rental
charges, for such service, whether or not public rights-of-
way are utilized in the delivery of such service, including
by means of cable television, master antenna television,
satellite master antenna television, direct broadcast
satellite, multipoint distribution service, and other
providers of video programming whatever their technology.

B.	“City” shall mean the City of Oakley, either
the municipality or the territorial limits of the city as the
context requires.

C.	“Day” shall mean a calendar day.

D.	“Gas” shall mean natural or manufactured
gas or any alternate hydrocarbon fuel that may be
substituted therefore.

E.	“Month” shall mean a calendar month.

F.	“Non-utility service supplier" means:

1 A service supplier, other than a supplier

of electric distribution services to ail or a significant
portion of the city, which generates electricity for sale to
others, and shall include but is not limited to any publicly-
owned electric utility, investor-owned utility, cogenerator,
distributed generation provider, exempt wholesale
generator (15 U.S.C. Section 79z-5a), municipal utility
district, federal power marketing agency, electric rural
cooperative, or other supplier or seller of electricity;

2.	An electric service provider (ESP),
electricity broker, marketer, aggregator, pool operator, or
other electricity supplier other than a provider of electric
distribution services to ail or a significant portion of the
city, which sells or supplies electricity or supplemental
services to electricity users within the city; and,

3.	A gas service supplier, aggregator,
marketer or broker, other than a supplier of gas distribution
services to all or a significant portion of the city, which sells
or supplies gas or supplemental services to gas users
within the city.

G.	“Person" shall mean, without limitation,
any natural individual; firm, trust, common law trust, estate,
partnership of any kind, association, syndicate, club, joint
stock company, joint venture, limited liability company,
corporation (including foreign, domestic, and non-profit);
joint power agency, special district or municipal corporation
(other than the city); cooperative; or a receiver, trustee,
guardian, or other representative appointed by any court.

H.	“Schools" shall mean any public school
located within the City of Oakley.

I.	“Service address” means the residential
street address or the business street address of a service
user.

J.	“Service supplier” shall mean any entity
or person, including the city, that provides, sells, or
resells a utility service to a user of such service in the city.

K.	“Service user"shall mean a person required
to pay a tax imposed under the provisions of this article.

L.	"Special	Districts”	shall	mean	any

special district created pursuant to State law providing
public services to users within the City of Oakley.

M.	“State” shall mean the State of California.

N.	"Streamlined sales	and	use	tax

agreement" means the mufti-state agreement commonly
known and referred to as the streamlined safes and use
tax agreement.

O.	“Tax administrator” shall mean the city
manager, or his or her designee

CC-9016-X4

CC 123*051



}!!

'-1 -
I

t

I

iii

I!

V;
;;; i

■ H

■!i <

V‘

■i \

V

a

ij1.:

■N;i

••

; i

I

iri

I

I

;=v

3,07.008	Exemptions.

A.	Nothing in this chapter shall be	construed

as imposing a tax upon:

1.	Any person or service	when	imposition

of such tax upon that person or service would
violate a federal or state statute, the Constitution of
the United States or that of the State of California;

2.	The City;

3.	Schools; and

4.	Special Districts.

B.	Any service user that is	exempt from the

taxes imposed by this chapter pursuant to subsection
(A) shall apply to the tax administrator for an exemption;
provided, however, this requirement shall not apply to a
service user that is a state or federal agency or subdivision
with a commonly recognized name, or is a service user
of telephone communication services that has received a
federal excise tax exemption certificate for such service.
Application shall be made upon a form approved by the
tax administrator and shall state facts declared under
penalty of perjury which qualify the applicant for an
exemption, and shall include the names of all utility service
providers serving the applicant. If deemed exempt by the
tax administrator, such service user shall give the tax
administrator timely written notice of any change in utility
service providers so the tax administrator can properly
notify the new utility service provider of the service user's
tax exempt status. A service user who fails to comply with
this section shall not be entitled to a refund of utility users
taxes collected and remitted to the tax administrator from
such service user as a result of such non-compliance.
Upon request of the tax administrator, a service supplier or
non-utility service supplier, or its billing agent, shall provide
a list of the names and addresses of those customers
which, according to its billing records, are deemed exempt
from the utility users tax. With respect to a service user
of telephone communication service, a service supplier of
such telephone communication services doing business in
the city shall, upon the request of the tax administrator,
provide a copy of the federal exemption for each exempt
customer within the city that is served by such service
supplier.

3.07.010 Bundling taxable items.

If any nontaxable charges are combined with and
not separately stated from taxable service charges on
a bill, the combined charge is subject to tax unless the
service supplier apportions, by reasonable and verifiable
standards, the combined charge between nontaxable
and taxable services using books and records kept in
the regular course of the service supplier’s business,
and in accordance with generally accepted accounting

principles, and not created and maintained only for tax
purposes. If the service supplier offers a combination
of taxable and non-taxable services, and the charges
are separately stated, then for taxation purposes, the
apportionment shall use books and records kept in the
regular course of the service supplier's business and in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles,
and not created and maintained only for tax purposes.
The service supplier has the burden of proving the proper
apportionment of taxable and non-taxable charges.

3.07.020 Substantial nexus/minimum contact.

For purposes of imposing a tax or establishing a duty
to collect and remit a tax under this chapter, "substantial
nexus” and “minimum contacts” shall be construed broadly
in favor of the imposition, collection and/or remittance of
the tax to the fullest extent permitted by state and federal
law, and as it may change from time to time by judicial
interpretation or by statutory or constitutional enactment.
Any telecommunication service (including VoIP) used by
a person with a service address in the city, which service
is capable of terminating a call to another person on the
general telephone network, is rebuttable presumed to
have “substantial nexus/minimum contacts” with the city for
purposes of imposing a tax, or establishing a duty to collect
and remit a tax, under this chapter. A service supplier shall
be deemed to have sufficient activity in the city to be obliged
to collect and remit tax if its activities include, but are not
limited to, any of the following: maintains or has within the
city, directly or through an agent, affiliate, or subsidiary, a
place of business of any nature; solicits business in the
city by employees, independent contractors, resellers,
agents or other representatives; solicits business in the
city on a continuous, regular, seasonal or systematic basis
by means of advertising that is broadcast or relayed from
a transmitter in the city or distributed from a location with
the city; or advertises in newspapers or other periodicals
printed and published within the city or through materials
distributed in the city by means other than the United
States mail; or if there are activities performed in the city
on behalf of the service supplier that are significantly
associated with the service supplier’s ability to establish
and maintain a market in the city for the provision of utility
services that are subject to a tax under this chapter (e.g.,
electronic advertising received within the city or activities
in the city by an affiliated person that inure to the benefit
of the service supplier in its developing or maintaining a
market in the city),

3.07,040 Electricity users tax.

A.	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every
person using electricity in the city. The tax imposed by this
section shall be at the rate of three and one-half percent
(3.5%) of the charges made for such electricity, and for
any supplemental services or other associated activities
directly related to and/or necessary for the provision of
electricity to the service user, which are provided by a

CC-9016-X5

CC 123*052

service supplier or non-utiiity service supplier to a service
user. The tax shall be collected from the service user by
jielservice supplier or non-utiiity service supplier, or its
billing agent.

lii:	B.	As used in this	section,	the	term

charges” shall apply to ail services, components
and items that are: (i) necessary or common to the
receipt, use and enjoyment of electric service; or (ii)
historically have been, included in a single or bundled
rate for electric service to a class of retail customers.
“Charges" includes but is not limited to, the following:

1.	Energy charges;

2.	Distribution or transmission charges;

3.	Metering charges;

4.	Stand-by, reserves,	firming,	ramping,

voltage support, regulation, emergency, or other similar
minimum charges for services;

5.	Customer charges, late charges, service
establishment or reestablishment charges, demand
charges, fuel or other cost adjustments, power exchange
charges, independent system operator (ISO) charges,
stranded investment or competitive transition charges
(CTC), public purpose program charges, nuclear
decommissioning charges, trust transfer amounts (bond
financing charges), franchise fees, franchise surcharges,
annual and monthly charges, and any other charges, fees
and surcharges which are necessary to or common for
the receipt, use and enjoyment of electric service; and

6.	Charges, fees, or surcharges for
electricity services or programs, which are mandated
)y the California Public Utilities Commission or the
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, whether
or not such charges, fees or surcharges appear on
a bundled or line item basis on the customer billing.

C.	As used in this section, the term "charges"
shall also include the value of any other services, credits,
property of every kind or nature, or other consideration
provided by the service user in exchange for electricity or
services related to the provision of electricity. If a non-taxable
service and a taxable service are billed together under a
single charge, the entire charge shall be deemed taxable
unless the service supplier can reasonably identify charges
not subj e ct to tax based u pon books and records that are kept
in the regular course of business, which shall be consistent
with generally accepted accounting principles and which
are not created and maintained only for tax purposes.

D.	The tax administrator, from time to time,
may survey electric service suppliers to identify unbundled
silling components of electrical retail service they
commonly provide to retail customers in the city, and the

charges therefor, including those items that are mandated
by state or federal regulatory agencies as a condition
of providing electric service. The tax administrator may
issue and disseminate to electric service suppliers
administrative rulings identifying those components
and items which are: (i) necessary or common to the
receipt, use and enjoyment of electric service; or, (ii)
currently, or historically have been, included in a single
or bundled rate for electric service to a class of retail
customers. Unbundled charges for such components and
items shall be subject to the tax of subsection A. above.

E.	As used in this section, “using electricity"
shall not be construed to include the mere receiving of
such electricity by an electric public utility or governmental
agency within the city for resale or the use of such electricity
by such entity in the production or distribution of water.

F.	The tax on electricity provided by a non-
utility service supplier not under the jurisdiction of this
chapter shall be collected and remitted in the manner set
forth in section 3.07.100 of this chapter. All other taxes
on charges for electricity imposed in this section shall
be collected from the service user by the electric service
supplier or its billing agent. The amount of tax collected
in a month shall be remitted to the tax administrator on or
before the 20th day of the following month in accordance
with section 3.07,200 of this chapter; or, at the option of the
person required to collect and/or remit the tax, such person
shall remit an estimated amount of tax measured by the tax
billed in the previous month or upon the payment pattern of
the service user on or before the 20th day of the following
month in accordance with section 3.07.200 of this chapter.

3.07.060 Water and Sewer service users tax.

A.	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every
person using water and sewer service in the city. The
tax imposed by this section shall be at the rate of three
and one-half percent (3.5%) of the charges made for
such water and sewer service, and for any supplemental
services or other associated activities directly related to
and/or necessary for the provision of electricity to the
service user, which are provided by a service supplier
or non-utility service supplier to a service user. The tax
shall be collected from the service user by the service
supplier or non-utility service supplier, or its billing agent.

B.	As used in this section,	the term

"charges” shall apply to all services, components and
items that are: (i) necessary or common to the receipt,
use and enjoyment of water and sewer service; or (ii)
historically have been, included in a single or bundled
rate for such service to a class of retail customers.
“Charges" includes but is not limited to, the foffowing:

1.	Water use charges;

2.	Sewer service charges;

3.	Distribution or transmission charges;
4.	Metering charges and related service
	charges.
3.07.080	Gas user tax.
A.	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every

person in the city, other than a gas corporation or electrical
corporation, using gas in the city which is delivered through a
pipeline distribution system. The tax imposed by this section
shall be at a rate of three and one-half percent (3.5%) of the
charges made for such gas, including all services related
to the storage, transportation and delivery of such gas,
and shall be collected from the service user by the service
supplier or non-utility service supplier, or its billing agent.

B. As used in this section, the term "charges”
shall apply to all services, components and items for gas
service that are: (i) necessary or common to the receipt,
use and enjoyment of gas service; or (ii) currently, or
historically have been, included in a single or bundled
rate for gas service to a class of retail customers.
“Charges" shall include, but is not limited to, the following:

1.	Commodity charges for purchased gas, or
the cost of gas owned by the service user (including the
actual costs attributed to drilling, production, lifting, storage,
gathering, trunkline, pipeline, and other operating costs
associated with the production and delivery of such gas),
which is delivered through a gas pipeline distribution system;

2.	Gas transportation charges (including
interstate charges to the extent not included in commodity
charges);

3.	Storage charges; provided, however, that
the service provider shall not be required to apply the
tax to any charges for gas storage services when the
service provider cannot, as a practical matter, determine
the jurisdiction in which such stored gas is ultimately
used; but it shall be the obligation of the service user to
pay the tax not applied to any charge for gas storage by
the service provider and to remit the tax to the city if the
storage services have minimum contacts with the city;

4.	Capacity or demand charges, late
charges, service establishment or reestablishment
charges, transition charges, customer charges,
minimum charges, annual and monthly charges, and
any other charges which are necessary or common
to the receipt, use and enjoyment of gas service, and

5.	Charges, fees, or surcharges for gas
services or programs mandated by the California Public
Utilities Commission or the Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission, whether or not such charges, fees or
surcharges appear on user’s bills on a bundled or line item
basis.

C.	As used in this section, “charges” shall
include the value of any other services, credits, property
of every kind or nature, or other consideration provided by
a service user in exchange for gas or services related to
the delivery of gas. If a non-taxable service and a taxable
service are billed together under a single charge, the
entire charge shall be deemed taxable unless the service
supplier can reasonably identify charges not subject to the
utility users tax based upon books and records kept in the
regular course of its business, which shall be consistent
with generally accepted accounting principles and which
are not created and maintained only for tax purposes.

D.	The tax administrator, from time to time,
may survey gas service suppliers to identify the various
unbundled billing components of gas retail service they
commonly provide to retail customers in the city, and the
charges therefor, including items mandated by state or
federal regulatory agencies as a condition of providing gas
service. The tax administrator may issue and disseminate to
such gas service suppliers administrative rulings identifying
those components and items which are: i) necessary or
common to the receipt, use and enjoyment of gas service;
or, ii) currently, or historically have been, included in a
single or bundled rate for gas service to a class of retail
customers. Unbundled charges for such components and
items shall be subject to the tax of subsection A. above.

E.	There shall be excluded from the base s
on which the tax imposed in this section is computed:

i

1.	Charges made for gas which is to be |
resold and delivered through a pipeline distribution system; \

j

2.	Charges made for gas sold for use in the j
generation of electricity or for the production or distribution i
of water by a public utility or governmental agency; and j

3.	Charges made by a gas public utility for j

gas used and consumed in the conduct of the business of j
gas public utilities.	j

F.	The tax that is calculated on charges for
gas provided by self-production or by a non-utility service
supplier shall be collected and remitted as set forth in
section 3.07.100 of this chapter. A gas service supplier or
its biding agent shall collect from service users all other
taxes imposed in this section. The tax collected in a month
shall be remitted to the tax administrator on or before the
20th day of the following month in accordance with section
3.07.200 of this chapter; or, at the option of the person
required to collect or remit the tax, such person shall remit
an estimated amount of tax measured by the tax billed in
the previous month or upon the payment pattern of the
service user on or before the 20th day of the following
month in accordance with section 3.07.200 of this chapter:

3.07.100	Collection of tax from service users
receiving direct purchase of gas or electricity.

A.	Any service user in the city subject to the
tax imposed by section 3.07.040 or by section 3.07.060 of
this chapter, who or which produces gas or electricity for
self-use, or which receives gas or electricity, including any
related supplemental services, directly from a non-utility
service supplier, or which, for any other reason, is not having
the full tax collected and remitted by its service supplier, a
non-utility service supplier, or its billing agent on the use
of gas or electricity, including any related supplemental
services, shall report that fact to the tax administrator
and remit the tax due to the tax administrator within 30
days of such use. Alternatively, a service user may, at its
option, remit to the tax administrator within 30 days of
such use an estimated amount of tax measured by the tax
due in the previous month, or upon the payment pattern
of similar customers of the service supplier using similar
amounts of gas or electricity, provided that the service user
shali submit an adjusted payment or request for credit,

! as appropriate, within 60 days following each calendar
quarter. The credit, if approved by the tax administrator,
j may be applied against any tax due subsequently.

j	B. The tax administrator may require such a

service user to identify its non-utility service supplier and
provide subject to audit, invoices, books of account, or
other satisfactory evidence documenting: (i) the quantity of
gas or electricity used, including any related supplemental
| services, and (ii) the cost or price thereof, if a service user
is unable to provide such satisfactory evidence, or, if the
! tax administrator deems the cost to the service user to
calculate the tax to be unreasonable, the tax administrator
may determine the tax by applying the tax rate to the
equivalent charges the service user would have incurred
had the primary provider of gas or electricity services in
I the city provided the gas or electricity used, including any
! related supplemental services by. Rate schedules for this
I purpose shall be available from the tax administrator.

3.07.120 Cable television user tax.

A.	There is imposed a tax on every person in
the city, other than a cable television corporation, using
cable television service in the city whether delivered by
cable, microwave, or any other method within the city.
The tax imposed by this section shall be at the rate of
three and one-half percent (3.5%) of the charges made
for such cable television and shall be collected from the
service user by the service supplier, or its billing agent.

B.	As used in this section, “charges” shall
apply to ail services, components, and items that
are: (i) necessary or common to the receipt, use and
enjoyment of cable television service; or (ii) currently, or
historically have been, included in a single or bundled
rate for cable television service by a service supplier.
"Charges” shall include, but is not limited to, the following:

1.	Customer charges, late charges, service
establishment or reestablishment charges, franchise fees,
franchise surcharges, annual and monthly charges, and
other charges, fees and surcharges which are necessary
for or common to the receipt, use and enjoyment of cable
television service; and

2.	Charges, fees, or surcharges for cable
television services or programs, which are mandated by a
state or federal agency, whether or not such charges, fees,
or surcharges appear on customer bills on a bundled or
line item basis.

C.	As used in this section, “charges" shall
include the value of any other services, credits, property of
every kind or nature, or other consideration provided by a
service user for cable television services. If a non-taxabie
service and a taxable service are billed together under a
single charge, the entire charge shall be deemed taxable
unless the service supplier can reasonably identify charges
not subject to tax based upon books and records that are
kept in the regular course of its business, which shall be
consistent with generally accepted accounting principles
and not created and maintained only for tax purposes.

D.	The tax on cable television service
imposed by this section shali be collected from a service
user by a service supplier or its billing agent. The amount
of tax collected in a month shall be remitted to the tax
administrator on or before the 20th day of the following
month in accordance with section 3.07.200 of this chapter.

3.07.140 Decisions on amounts imposed.

If any court of competent jurisdiction holds any
tax, penalty, or interest charge imposed by this chapter
to be discriminatory or invalid in amount for any reason
such holding shali not affect the validity of a lesser amount
imposed by the tax administrator with the concurrence of
the city attorney. The city council hereby declares that it
would have imposed a valid utility users tax, penalty, or
interest charge of the maximum nondiscriminatory amount
permitted by law, up to but not exceeding, the amount
provided under this chapter on the person or persons in
question, irrespective of the fact that any one or more of
the taxes, penalties, or interest charges imposed herein
may be declared discriminatory or invalid in amount.

3.07.150 Citizen review board to be appointed;

Cypress Lakes Community Facilities
District reimbursement

A. Within one-hundred twenty days of
passage, a citizen review board shall be appointed by
the city council, of five to seven members, to monitor and
recommend the use of any tax revenues collected pursuant
to this chapter.

B. if any revenues collected pursuant to this

CC 123-055

chapter are utilized for fire services, City shall request that
the East Contra Costa Fire Protection District reimburse
service users that live within the Cypress Lakes Community
Facilities District any annual fire tax/assessment paid
by these service users to the East Contra Costa Fire
Protection District,

3.07.160 Duty to collect; procedures.

The duty of service suppliers to collect and remit the
taxes imposed by this chapter shall be performed as follows:

A.	The tax shall be collected insofar as
practicable at the same time as and along with the charges
made in accordance with the regular billing practice of
each service supplier.

B.	Section 3.07,260 of this chapter applies
when a service user has notifies a service supplier of
refusal to pay the tax.

C.	The duty to collect tax from a service user
shall commence as provided in Public Utilities Code section
799. Provided, however, that the tax administrator may
enter into agreements with service suppliers to induce them
to collect the tax more quickly than the 60 days provided
by that section in exchange for the right to withhold from
taxes remittances to the city their reasonable costs, as
specified in such agreement, to initially implement the tax.

D.	Where a service user receives more
than one billing for different periods, the duty to
collect shall arise separately for each billing period.

E.	Whenever a service supplier negligently
fails in its duty to determine and collect the required
tax from a service user, any other amount collected
by the service supplier from the service user shall
then be subject to a constructive trust in the favor
of the city for the full amount of the uncollected tax.

3.07.180	Duty to remit; procedures.

A,	Each person required by this chapter to
remit a tax shall file a return with the tax administrator
on forms approved by the tax administrator on or before
the due date in accordance with section 3.07.200 of this
chapter. The full amount of the tax owed shall be included
with the return and filed with the tax administrator. The
tax administrator is authorized to require such additional
information as he or she deems necessary to determine
if the tax is being levied and collected in accordance with
this chapter. Returns are due immediately upon cessation
of business for any reason. Pursuant to state Revenue
and Taxation Code Section 7284,6, the tax administrator,
and his or her agents, shall maintain such filing returns as
confidential information not subject to the Public Records
Act.

B.	If a service supplier uses a billing agent or
billing aggregator to bill, collect, and/or remit the tax, the
service supplier shall: (i) provide to the tax administrator the
name, address, and telephone number of each billing agent
and billing aggregator authorized by the service supplier to
bill, collect, and/or remit the tax to the city; and (ii) upon
request of the tax administrator, deliver any information or
records in the possession of such billing agent or billing
aggregator that, in the opinion of the tax administrator, is or
are necessary to verify the proper application, calculation,
collection and/or remittance of such tax.

3.07.200 Timely filing and remittance.

A.	Returns and taxes may be filed and
remitted by the following means: (i) personally, (ii) by United
States Mail, (iii) by express carrier, and (iv) by electronic
means acceptable to the tax administrator. Returns and
taxes actually received by the tax administrator on or
before the due dates provided in this chapter shall be
timely; otherwise, returns are late and subject to any
remedy permitted under this Code and taxes are delinquent
and subject to the penalties imposed pursuant to section

3.07.220	of this chapter. Provided, however, that when the
last day upon which a return may be filed or a tax remitted
falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or a holiday or a day city hall
is not open for business, a timely filing and remittance
may be made upon the first following business day.

B.	A direct deposit, including electronic
fund transfers and other similar methods of electronically
exchanging monies between financial accounts, made by
a service supplier in satisfaction of its obligations under
this chapter shall be timely if the transfer is initiated on or
before the due dates provided in this chapter, and settles
into the city’s account on the following business day.

3.07.220	Penalty and interest; delinquencies
and deficiencies in collection and remittance

A.	Taxes collected but not remitted by due
date—delinquencies in remittance. If taxes collected by
a service supplier from a service user, or self-collected
by a service user subject to section 3.07.100 of this
chapter are not remitted to the tax administrator on
or before the due dates provided in this chapter, such
taxes shall be delinquent. The tax administrator shall
attach a one-time penalty for such delinquencies in
remittance of 15 percent of the delinquent amount.

B.	Taxes not collected—delinquencies in
collection. If a service supplier required to collect any
tax hereunder fails to collect such tax, or, if a service
user required to pay and remit the tax pursuant to
section 3.07.100 of this chapter, fails to timely do so,
the tax administrator shall attach a penalty for such
delinquencies in collection at the rate of 15 percent
of the total tax amount that is determined to be due.

C.	Taxes not fully collected—deficiencies
in collection. If a service supplier required to collect
and remit any tax hereunder fails to collect the full
amount of the tax, or, if a service user subject to section

3.07.100	of this chapter fails to properly pay the full
amount of the tax, the tax administrator shall attach
a one-time penalty of 15 percent of the unpaid tax.

D.	Taxes not fully remitted—deficiencies in
remittance. If a service supplier required to collect and
remit any tax hereunder fails to remit the full amount
of the tax collected, the tax administrator shaii attach
a one-time penalty of 15 percent of the unpaid tax.

E.	Fraud or gross negligence—additional
penalties. Ifthetaxadministratordeterminesanydelinquency
or deficiency in collection and/or remittance by any service
supplier, or service user required to pay and remit the tax
pursuant to section 3.07.100 of this chapter, is due to fraud
or gross negligence, the tax administrator may impose an
additional one-time penalty of 15 percent of the unpaid tax.

F.	Penalties—maximum	amount. The

cumulative amount of all applicable penalties imposed
under this chapter shall not exceed the tax originally owed.

G.	Interest-due from date of delinquency.
Any person subject to any penalty imposed by this section,
shall also pay interest on the unpaid tax and penalties at
the rate of 0.75 percent per month, or any fraction thereof
from the date on which the remittance of such amount
first became delinquent or deficient, and the date the
penalty was or penalties were imposed, until fully paid.

H.	Penalties and interest. All penalties
and all interest imposed under this chapter shall
constitute a single debt to the city of the person
obligated to pay and shall therefore be subject to
the same actions to collect and the same provisions
for enforcement as the tax imposed by this chapter.

I.	Penalties, interest, delinquencies, and
deficiencies owed. All penalties and interest imposed
under this chapter together with all delinquencies and
deficiencies owed shall be due and payable as of the
date of notification which shall be given in the manner as
administrative assessments under section 3.07.280 of this
chapter. Any person assessed any amount as delinquency,
or deficiency, or penalty, or interest shall have the same
right of appeal as provided in the case of administrative
assessments under section 3.07.280 of this chapter.

3.07.240	Actions to collect.

Any tax, penalty, or interest required to be paid by
a service user under the provisions of this chapter shall
be deemed a debt owed by the service user to the city.
Any such tax collected from a service user together with
any penalties or interest due thereon which have not

been remitted to the tax administrator shall be deemed a
debt owed to the city by the service supplier required to
collect and remit. The amount of any tax required to be
collected from a service user by a service supplier which
is held in constructive trust in the favor of the city shall
be a debt owed by the service supplier to the city. Any
person owing money to the city under the provisions of this
chapter shall be liable to an action brought in the name of
the city for the recovery of such amount plus related costs
incurred by the city and such other legal and equitable
remedies as are provided by this Code or other law.

3.07.260 Tax administrator, ex officio collector
of utility user taxes; additional powers and duties of
tax administrator.

A.	The tax administrator shaii be ex officio
utility users tax collector.

B.	The tax administrator shall have the power
and authority to enforce all of the provisions of this chapter.

C.	The tax administrator may adopt
administrative rules, regulations, and guidelines, or
make administrative agreements consistent with the
intent of the provisions of this chapter for the purpose
of administering the provisions herein regarding the
payment, collection, and remittance of said taxes.

3.07.280	Assessment; administrative remedy.

The tax administrator may make an assessment
for taxes not collected and/or not remitted or paid by
any person required to collect and/or remit or pay.

A.	Service supplier or service user—failure
to collect and/or remit tax. If any service supplier, or any
service user subject to section 3.07.100 of this chapter,
(hereinafter in this subsection, “service supplier") required
to collect and/or remit the tax imposed by this chapter
shall fail or refuse to collect said tax or to timely make any
report and remittance of said tax or any portion thereof,
the tax administrator shall determine the tax due (tax,
penalties, and interest on both; collectively hereinafter in
this subsection, “amount assessed"). The tax administrator
shall give a written notice of the amount assessed by
personal service or by depositing it in the United States mail,
addressed to the service supplier at the service supplier's
address last known to the city. The service supplier may,
within 10 days after serving or mailing such notice, apply in
writing to the tax administrator for a hearing on the amount
assessed under section 3.07.380 of this chapter. If such
application is not made in that time, the amount assessed
shall become final and immediately due and payable.

B.	Service	user—failure	to pay tax.

Whenever the tax administrator determines a service user
has deliberately withheld from a service supplier tax owed
by him or her, or has failed to pay the tax to such service

CC-9016-X10

CC 123-057

supplier for two or more billing periods, or whenever the
tax administrator deems it in the best interest of the city, he
or she may relieve such service supplier of the obligation
to collect taxes due under this chapter from such service
users for specified billing periods. In the case, the service
supplier shall provide the tax administrator the names,
account numbers, billing and service addresses, and other
required information of such non-paying service users
together with the amounts owed under this chapter and
the specified billing periods for which they are owed. The
tax administrator shall give written notice to the non-paying
service user that he or she has assumed responsibility to
collect the taxes due for the stated periods and demand
payment of such taxes. The notice shall be served on
the service user by personal service or by notice via the
United States mail, addressed to the service user at the
address to which billing was made by the person required
to collect the tax or such other address for the service
user as is last known to the tax administrator. If a service
user fails to remit the tax to the tax administrator within
15 days of mailing or personal service of the notice, the
tax administrator shall impose an additional, one-time
penalty of 25 percent of the amount assessed, but not
less than five dollars. Interest shall thereafter accrue at
the rate of 0.75 percent per month, or any fraction thereof,
on the amount assessed plus the additional penalty.

3.07.300 Records.

A.	it shall be the duty of every person required
to collect and/or remit to the city any tax imposed by this
chapter to keep and preserve, fora period of three years, all
records as may be necessary to determine the amount of
such tax as he may have been obliged to collect and remit
to the tax administrator, which records the tax administrator
shall have the right to inspect at all reasonable times. The
city may issue an administrative subpoena to compel a
person to deliver to the tax administrator copies of all records
deemed necessary by the tax administrator to establish
compliance with this chapter, including the delivery of
records in a common electronic format on readily available
media if such records are kept electronically by the person
in the usual and ordinary course of business. The tax
administrator is authorized to execute a non-disclosure
agreement approved by the city attorney to protect the
confidentiality of customer information pursuant to state
Revenue and Taxation Code Sections 7284.6 and 7284.7.

B.	The tax administrator may request from
any person providing transportation or distribution services
of gas or electricity to service users in the city, a list of the
names, billing, and service addresses, quantities of gas
or electricity delivered, and other pertinent information,
of its transportation customers within the city pursuant
to Public Utilities Code section 6354, subdivision (e).

C.	The tax administrator may impose a
penalty of $500.00 on any person subject to record-
keeping under this section who unreasonably denies

the tax administrator, or any designated agent of the tax
administrator, access to such records, or fails to produce
the information requested in an administrative subpoena
within the time specified for each day he or she refuses
such access. This penalty shall be in addition to any other
penalty imposed by this chapter.

3.07.320	Refunds.

A.	The tax administrator may refund any tax
that has been overpaid or paid more than once or has
been erroneously or illegally collected or received by the
tax administrator under this chapter, as provided in this
section.

B.	The tax administrator shall pay no refund
shall be paid under this section unless the claimant or his
or her guardian, conservator, executor, or administrator
submits a written claim to the tax administrator within
12 months of the overpayment or erroneous or illegal
collection of said tax. Such claim must clearly establish
claimant’s right to the refund by written records showing
entitlement thereto. Nothing herein shall permit the filing
of a claim on behalf of a class or group of taxpayers.

C.	The submission of a written claim
shall be a prerequisite to a suit thereon as provided
In Government Code section 935. The city shall act
upon the refund claim within the time period set forth in
Government Code Section 912.4. If the city fails or refuses
to act on a refund claim within that time, the claim shall
be deemed rejected on the last day on which the city
might have timely acted upon the claim under that section.

D.	Notwithstanding subsection B. above, a
service supplier may take any overpayment as a credit
against an underpayment whenever such overpayment
has been received by the city within 3 years before
a notice of tax deficiency or assessment by the tax
administrator, or during any year for which the service
supplier, at the request of the tax administrator, has
executed a waiver of the defense of the statute of
limitations with regard to any claim the city may have
for a utility users tax. Under no circumstances shall an
overpayment taken as a credit against an underpayment
pursuant to this subsection qualify a service supplier for
a refund to which it would not otherwise be entitled under
the 12-month written claim requirement of this section.

3.07.340 Low-income household exemption.

A. The utility users tax imposed by this
chapter shall not apply to any service user who uses
electric, water, sewer, gas or cable television services in
his or her primary residence, provided the combined gross
income of ail members of his or her household was less
than an amount established from time to time by resolution
of the city council.

B.	The exemption granted by this section shall
not eliminate the duty of the service supplier to collect taxes
from such exempt individual or the duty of such exempt
individual to pay such taxes to the service supplier, unless
an exemption is applied for by the service user and granted
in accordance with the provisions of subsection C. below.

C.	Any service user exempt from the taxes
imposed by this chapter because of the provisions
of subsections A. and B. above may apply to the tax
administrator for an exemption. Such an application shall
be made upon forms supplied by the tax administrator and
shall recite facts under oath which qualify the applicant
for an exemption. The tax administrator shall review all
such applications and certify as exempt those applicants
determined to qualify and notify all service suppliers
affected that such exemption has been approved, stating
the name of the applicant, the address to which such
exempt service is being supplied, the account number,
and such other information as may be necessary for the
service supplier to exempt the exempt service user. Upon
receipt of such notice, the service supplier shall not be
required to continue to bill any further tax imposed by
this chapter from such exempt service user until further
notice by the tax administrator is given. The service
supplier shall eliminate such exempt service user from
its tax billing procedure upon receipt of such notice
from the tax administrator, no later than sixty (60) days
after receipt of such notice from the tax administrator.

D.	All exemptions shall be renewed annually
by the exempt service user in April of each year. The tax
administrator shall notify all service suppliers by May
31 of those not renew their exemptions. Each service
supplier shall commence collection of tax from such the
service users no later than 60 days after the date of such
notice. Exemptions shall automatically terminate with any
change in the service address or residence of the exempt
service user; provided such individual may nevertheless
apply for a new exemption with each change of address or
residence. Any individual exempt from the tax shall notify
the tax administrator within 10 days of any change in fact
or circumstance which might disqualify said individual from
receiving such exemption. It shall be a misdemeanor for any
person to knowingly receive the benefits of the exemptions
provided by this section when the basis for such exemption
either does not exist or ceases. The city may seek any
remedy available under this code or otherwise at law or
in equity to recoup taxes unpaid by those who wrongfully
claim or maintain an exemption under this section.

E.	Notwithstanding any of the provisions of
this section, however, any service supplier who determines
by any means that a new or nonexempt service user is
receiving service through a meter or connection exempt
by virtue of an exemption issued to a previous user,
such service supplier shall immediately notify the tax
administrator of such fact and the tax administrator shall
conduct an investigation to ascertain whether the service

user has this chapter and, where appropriate, order the
service supplier to commence collecting the tax from the
nonexempt service user.

3.07.360	Violation; misdemeanor; remedies

cumulative.

A.	Any person other than the city or an
officer, agent or employee of the city acting within the
course and scope of his or her relationship with the city
who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor and shall upon conviction be punishable
thereafter as provided in this code and applicable law.

B.	The conviction and fine or imprisonment
of any person for violation of this chapter shall not
relieve such person from paying the tax together with
any penalty or interest due, nor shall the payment of any
tax, penalty, or interest prevent a civil action or criminal
prosecution for violation of any provision of this chapter.
All remedies and penalties prescribed by this chapter or
which are available under any other provision of law or
equity, including but not limited to the California False
Claims Act (Government Code section 12650 et seq.)
and the California Unfair Practices Act (Business and
Professions Code section 17000 et seq.), are cumulative.
The city’s use of one or more remedies to enforce this
chapter shall not bar the use of any other remedy.

3.07.380 Right to administrative hearing;
appeals.

A. If any service user or service supplier
(hereinafter in this subsection, “applicant”) is aggrieved
by any decision, assessment, or ruling of the tax
administrator, or by denial of a refund or exemption,
under this chapter, may appeal to the tax administrator in
writing within 30 days of the decision, assessment, ruling
or denial. If no application is timeiy made, the decision,
assessment, ruling or denial shall be final. If such
application is made, the tax administrator shall conduct
a hearing on the appeal on five or more days’ written
notice. Such notice shall be given by personal service or
by depositing it in the United States mail, addressed to
the applicant's last known address. The applicant may
appear before the tax administrator or a hearing officer he
or she appoints (hereinafter in this subsection, “hearing
officer”) and offer evidence. After such hearing the hearing
officer determine the appeal under the standards of
this chapter and give the applicant written notice of that
determination. The of hearing officer’s determination
shall be final as to the city but subject to judicial review
as provided in Code of Civil Procedure section 1094.5

3.07.400 Nonpayment of tax - Bar to writ of
mandate or other legal or equitable process; "pay
first, litigate later” rule.

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal

CC-9016-X12

CC 123-059

or equitable process shall issue in any suit, action, or
proceeding in any court against this city or against any
officer of the city to prevent or enjoin the collection of
any tax, penalty or interest owed. Rather, the persons
obliged under this chapter shall perform the duties
it prescribes under protest, seek an administrative
hearing under section 3.07.360 and thereafter seek
judicial review and a post-payment judicial remedy,

3.07.420 Savings clause.

The adoption of this chapter shall not be
construed to affect prosecution for violation of any chapter,
article, code, or ordinance before the effective date hereof,
nor be construed as a waiver of any tax or any penal
provision applicable to any such violation, and all rights
and obligations thereunto appertaining shall continue in
full force and effect.

3.07.440	Severability.

if any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph,
sentence, clause or phrase of this chapter or any part
thereof is for any reason held to be unconstitutional
or unenforceable for any reason, such decision, and
the decision not to enforce such, shall not affect the
validity of the remaining portion of this chapter or
any part thereof. To that end, the City Council hereby
declares the provisions of this chapter to be severable.

3.07.460	Notice of changes to utility user tax.

If a tax under this chapter is added, repealed,
increased, reduced, or the tax base is changed, the
tax administrator shall provide the notice required by
Public Utilities Code section 799. Before the effective
date of the change, the service supplier shall provide
the tax administrator with a copy of any written
procedures describing the information the service
supplier needs to implement the change. If the service
provider fails to provide such written instructions, the
tax administrator, or his or her agent, shall send, by
first class mail, a copy of the change to all collectors
and remitters of the city’s utility user taxes according
to the latest payment records of the tax administrator.

3.07.480 Effect of state and federal reference/
authorization.

A. Any reference to a statute in this
chapter shall mean such statute, as amended from time
to time; excluding, however, any amendment or change
of interpretation by a state or federal agency or court that
would: (i) Increase the tax imposed by this chapter or
otherwise trigger voter approval under article XIII C of the
California Constitution or Government Code section 53720
et seq., or (ii) result in a tax decrease (as by excluding
all or a part of a utility service, or charge therefor, from
taxation). If a statute referenced in this chapter is amended

as provided in subdivisions (i) and (ii) of the previous
sentence, the prior version or interpretation of the statute
shall remain applicable under this chapter unless and
until it is amended with any requisite voter approval.

B. To the extent that the city’s authorization
to collect or impose any tax imposed under this article
is expanded or limited as a result of changes in state
or federal law, no amendment or modification of this
article shall be required to conform the tax to those
changes, and the tax shall be imposed and collected to
the full extent of the authorization up to the full amount
of the tax imposed under this article without additional
voter approval to the full extent permitted by law.

3.07.500 No increase in fax percentage or
change in methodology without voter approval;
amendment or repeal.

The city council may repeal or amend this chapter
without a vote of the people. However, as required by
Government Code section 53720 et seq. and Chapter XIii
C of the California Constitution, voter approval is required
for any amendment to increase the tax due under this
chapter from any taxpayer. The following actions shall not
constitute an increase of the rate of a tax requiring further
voter approval:

A.	Restoration of the rate of the tax to
a rate that is no higher than that last approved by the
voters following city council action to reduce the tax;

B.	An administrative or legislative action
that interprets or clarifies the methodology of the tax,
or any definition applicable to the tax, so long as such
interpretation or clarification (even if contrary to some prior
interpretation or clarification) is not inconsistent with the
language of this chapter;

C.	The exemption of a class of service users
or class of service from the tax or the discontinuation
of any such exemption or exception (other than the
discontinuation of an exemption or exception expressed in
this chapter); or

D.	The collection of the tax imposed by this
chapter, even if the city had, for some period of time, failed
to collect the tax.

3.07.520 Sunset of Tax.

If the share of property taxes distributed to the
city and to special districts providing municipal services
to the city, including but not limited to the East Contra
Costa Fire Protection District, is increased so as to
provide additional funding for those services in amounts
comparable to those provided by the taxes imposed
by this chapter, the City Council shall repeal this tax.

CC 123-060

SECTION 2. Severability.

If any section, sentence, clause, phrase, or portion of this
Ordinance is held to be invalid or unenforceable by a court
of competent jurisdiction for any reason, the remaining
sections, sentences, clauses, phrases, or portions of this
ordinance shall nonetheless remain in full force and effect.
The People of the City of Oakley hereby declare that they
would have adopted each section, sentence, clause,
phrase, or portion of this Ordinance, irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, sentences, clauses,
phrases, or portions of this Ordinance be declared
invalid or unenforceable and, to that end, the provisions
of this Ordinance are hereby declared to be severable.

SECTION 3. General Tax; Majority Approval; Effective
Date

The tax imposed by this Ordinance is a general tax for
general governmental purposes. If a majority of votes
cast on the question favor the ballot measure regarding
this Ordinance, this Ordinance shall be effective on
the date the vote therefor is declared by the City
Council and shall go into effect 10 days thereafter in
accordance with California Elections Code section 9217.

SECTION 4. Execution of Ordinance.

The People of the City of Oakley hereby authorize the
Mayor and City Clerk of the City to execute this Ordinance
to reflect its adoption at the November 8, 2016 election.

I hereby certify that the foregoing ordinance was
duly adopted by a majority of the voters of the City
casting votes on the question on November 8, 2016.

APPROVED:

Kevin Romick, Mayor

ATTEST:

Libby Vreonis, City Clerk Date

CC-9016-X14

CC 123-061