Rincon Valley Union School District,
California, Parcel Tax, Measure H
(November 2016)

| Text of measure

Ballot question

The following question appeared on the ballot:!1!

tt To renew the community’s commitment to great local schools by enhancing
computer and technology education, maintaining libraries, preserving
classroom and instrumental music programs, and supporting science
programs with $1.1 million In annual funding, shall the Rincon Valley Union
School District renew its existing annual tax beginning In 2018 for twelve
years at the rate of $96 per parcel with annual $3 increases and a complete
exemption for parcels owned and occupied by senior citizens 65 years and
older?!2!

Impartial analysis

The following impartial analysis of the measure was prepared by the office of the
Sonoma County Counsel:

The Rincon Valley Union School District has called an election on a special tax
measure to fund educational programs. State law requires voter approval before a
school district can impose a special tax.

Currently, the District imposes a special tax of $90 per year per parcel to fund
educational programs. That tax expires on June 30, 2018. This measure would
continue the special tax for another twelve (12) years. The new tax would begin on
July 1, 2018, at a rate of $96 per parcel per year and would increase by $3 each
fiscal year beginning in July 2019. The tax would be collected and administered in
the same manner as regular ad valorem property taxes.

If Measure H is approved, the proceeds of the tax would be placed in a special fund
and could only be used for the purposes set forth in the full text of Measure H. The
stated purposes of the special parcel tax are attracting high quality teachers,
providing necessary educational programs and materials, providing instructional
assistance and materials for students who struggle with basic skills and for students
who excel, keeping school libraries open, extending library hours, managing
increased class size, maintaining and expanding music and band programs, adding
science labs and purchasing equipment and supplies for them, and expanding

technology programs at each District school by providing necessary equipment,
software, and training.

The tax would apply to each parcel of taxable land in the District, with some
exceptions described below. Measure H defines “parcel” as any unit of real property
that receives a separate tax bill from the Sonoma County Tax Collector. Parcels
which are exempt from property tax, or on which no property tax is otherwise
levied, are exempt from this tax. Additionally, upon application to the District, an
exemption shall be available to parcels owned by one or more persons who are aged
65 years or older and own and occupy the parcel as a principal residence, or to
persons who receive Supplemental Security Income for a disability, regardless of
age, and own and occupy the parcel as a principal residence. Applications for an
exemption must be made to the District on or before May 31 of the first year the
exemption would apply.

Each year that tax funds remain unspent, the District’s chief fiscal officer would
prepare and present a report to the Board of Education detailing (1) the amount of
revenue received and expended under the special tax during the prior year, and (2)
the status of any projects or description of any programs funded by said tax
revenue. The first report must be filed by December 31, 2018, and annual reports
must be filed not later than December 31 each ensuing year. The period covered by
the report may be a fiscal or calendar year, or other appropriate annual period.

If two-thirds of the voters in the Rincon Valley Union School District who vote on
this measure vote “yes,” the measure will pass and the special tax will be levied.[2]

—Sonoma County Counsel111

RESOLUTION 06-16-22

BEFORE THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE
RINCON VALLEY UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT

RESOLUTION OF THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE RINCON VALLEY UNION
SCHOOL DISTRICT OF THE COUNTY OF SONOMA, STATE OF CALIFORNIA, CALLING
AN ELECTION FOR APPROVAL OF AN EDUCATION PARCEL TAX, ESTABLISHING
SPECIFICATIONS OF THE ELECTION ORDER, AND REQUESTING CONSOLIDATION
WITH OTHER ELECTIONS OCCURRING ON NOVEMBER 8, 2016

RESOLVED by the Board of Trustees ("Board") of the Rincon Valley Union School
District ("District"), a school district of the County of Sonoma, State of California, that:

WHEREAS, the Board is committed to preserving quality in educational programs
and providing the best possible education to our students in all grades; and

WHEREAS, the State budget provides education funding below the national
average; and

WHEREAS, the District is committed to quality education for every student and high
standards of academic achievement and performance; and

WHEREAS, a high quality public education is vital to the community's well-being and
fosters the growth of society's greatest natural resource - the minds of children; and

WHEREAS, the investment in children's education is beneficial to the economic well-
being of our community and our country; and

WHEREAS, the Board has determined that in order to continue meeting the
educational needs of all of the District's students and to provide stable local funding for area
schools, it is necessary to reauthorize a special tax; and

WHEREAS, California Constitution, Article XIIIA, section 4 and Government Code
sections 50075 et seq. authorizes the District, upon approval of two thirds of the electorate,
to levy qualified special taxes on property in the District for the purpose of providing quality
educational programs in the District and other lawful purposes of the District; and

WHEREAS, in the judgment of this Board, following a public hearing and comment,
it is advisable to request that the Sonoma County Superintendent of Schools call an election
and submit to the voters of the District the question of whether the District shall levy a
qualified special tax within the District, for the purpose of raising revenue for the District;
and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the Education Code and Elections Code such election may be
completely or partially consolidated with any other election held on the same day and in the
same territory or territory that is in part the same.

NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS DETERMINED AND ORDERED as follows:

Section 1. Recitals. This Board hereby finds and determines that the foregoing recitals
are true and correct.

Section 2. Resolution Constitutes Order of Election. This resolution shall constitute
an order of election pursuant to the Education Code to the Sonoma County Superintendent
of Schools to call an election within the boundaries of the District on November 8, 2016.

Section 3. Date and Purpose of Measure. Pursuant to the California Constitution and
Government Code, an election shall be held within the boundaries of the District on
Tuesday, November 8, 2016, for the purpose of voting on a measure ("Measure") which will
be presented to voters in substantially the form attached hereto as Exhibit A, containing
the question of whether the District shall impose a qualified special tax for the educational
purposes stated therein. In addition, the full text of the Measure ("Full Ballot Text") shall
appear in the ballot pamphlet in substantially the form attached hereto as Exhibit B. The
authority for the specifications of this election order is contained in the Education Code, and
the authority for ordering the election is contained in the Education Code, Elections Code,
Government Code, and California Constitution.

Section 4. Exemptions from Qualified Special Tax. An exemption from the tax will
be made available to the following individuals:

(a)	Persons in the District who will attain 65 years of age prior to July 1 of the tax
year, own a beneficial interest in the parcel, and occupies that parcel as his or
her principal place of residence ("Senior Citizen Exemption"); or,

(b)	Persons receiving Supplemental Security Income for a disability, regardless of
age, and occupying said parcel as a principal residence ("SSI Exemption"); or

(c)	Persons receiving Social Security Disability Insurance benefits, regardless of
age, whose yearly income does not exceed 250 percent of the 2012 federal
poverty guidelines issued by the United States Department of Health and
Human Services ("SSDI Exemption").

Applications for all exemptions shall be made to the District in accordance with District
policies and on or before May 31 prior to the tax year in which the exemption may first be
granted. No retroactive exemptions will be granted. Any one application from a qualified
applicant will provide an exemption for the parcel for the remaining term of the tax so long
as such applicant continues to meet the requirements for the exemption. Approved
exemptions in effect for a prior parcel tax measure will not require re-approval and the
exemption will remain in effect so long as such applicant continues to meet the
requirements for the exemption. The District shall annually provide to the Sonoma County
Tax Collector ("County Tax Collector") or other appropriate County official a list of parcels
that the District has approved for an exemption.

Section 5. Collection of the Tax. Beginning July 1, 2018, if adopted by voters, the
qualified special tax shall be collected by the County Tax Collector, at the same time, in the
same manner, and subject to the same penalties as ad valorem property taxes collected by
the County Tax Collector. Unpaid special taxes shall bear interest at the same rate as the
rate for unpaid ad valorem property taxes until paid.

With respect to all general property tax matters within its jurisdiction, the County Tax
Collector shall make all final determinations of tax exemption or relief for any reason, and
that decision shall be final and binding. With respect to matters specific to the levy of the
special tax, including the exemptions, the application of the definition of "Parcel of Taxable
Real Property" to any parcel(s), the legality or validity of the special tax, or any other
disputed matter specific to the application of the special tax, the decisions of the District
shall be final and binding.

Section 6. Reporting and Oversight

(a)	Specific Purpose. The proceeds of the special tax shall be applied only to the
specific purposes identified in the Full Ballot Text. The proceeds of the special
tax shall be deposited into a fund, which shall be kept separate and apart
from other funds of the District.

(b)	Annual Report. No later than December 31 of each year while the special tax
is in effect, the District shall prepare and file with the Board a report detailing
the amount of funds collected and expended, and the status of any project
authorized to be funded by this Measure.

Section 7. Authority for Ordering Election. The authority for ordering the election is
contained in the Education Code, Elections Code, Government Code, and California
Constitution.

Section 8. Authority for Specifications. The authority for the specification of this
election order is contained in the Education Code.

Section 9. Resolution to County Officials. The Secretary to the Board is hereby
directed to cause certified copies of this Resolution and order to be delivered not later than
August 10, 2016, to the County Superintendent, the Sonoma County Registrar of Voters
("Registrar"), and the Clerk of the Board of Supervisors of Sonoma County ("Board of
Supervisors").

Section 10. Formal Notice. The County Superintendent is hereby requested to prepare
and execute a Formal Notice of Parcel Tax Election and consolidation order in substantially
the form attached hereto as Exhibit C (the "Formal Notice"), and to call the election by
causing the Formal Notice to be posted in accordance with the applicable law no later than
August 10, 2016, or to otherwise cause the notice to be published as permitted by law. The
Secretary to the Board, on behalf of and as may be requested by the County
Superintendent, is authorized to cause all notices required by law in connection herewith to
be published and posted, as the case may be.

Section 11. Conduct of Election.

(a)	Request to Registrar. Pursuant to State law, the Registrar is requested to
take all steps to hold the election on November 8, 2016, in accordance with
law and these specifications. The election may be consolidated with another
election as specified below, if such consolidation is feasible and appropriate.

(b)	Voter Pamphlet. The Registrar is hereby requested to reprint the Full Ballot
Text in substantially the form attached hereto as Exhibit B in the voter
information pamphlet to be distributed to voters pursuant to the Elections
Code. In the event the Full Ballot Text will not be reprinted in the voter
information pamphlet in its entirety, the Registrar is hereby requested to
print, immediately below the impartial analysis of the Measure, in no less than
10-point boldface type, a legend substantially as follows:

"The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure . If you desire a

copy of the Measure, please call the Sonoma County Registrar of Voters at
707-565-6800 and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you."

3

(c)	Consolidation. The County Superintendent and the Board of Supervisors are
hereby requested to consolidate the election ordered hereby with any and all
other elections as may be held on the same day in the same territory or in
territory that is in part the same.

(d)	Canvass and Declaration of Results. The Board of Supervisors is authorized to
canvass the returns of the election and declare the result pursuant to the
Elections Code.

(e)	Cost of Election. The District will reimburse the Registrar and the County for
costs associated with the election as required by law.

Section 12. Appropriations Limit. The Board shall provide in each year for an increase
in the District's appropriations limit as shall be necessary to ensure that the proceeds of the
special tax may be spent for its authorized purposes.

Section 13. Ballot Arguments. The Board President and/or her designees are hereby
authorized to prepare and file with the Registrar any ballot argument prepared in connection
with the election, including a rebuttal argument, each within the time established by the
Registrar, which shall be considered the official ballot arguments of the Board as sponsor of
the Measure and to take all necessary action to prevent inclusion of false and/or misleading
information in ballot materials related to the Measure.

Section 14. Official Actions. The District Superintendent, Board President, or their
designees are hereby authorized to execute any other document and to perform all acts
necessary to place the Measure on the ballot, including making alterations to the Measure
and Full Ballot Text stated in Exhibits A and B hereto, and to this Resolution to comply
with requirements of law and election officials or which are, in the judgment of the
Superintendent and/or Board President, in the best interests of the District.

Section 15. Effective Date. This Resolution shall take effect from and after its adoption.

The foregoing resolution was introduced by	G~Q9=.pe^__________,

who moved its adoption, seconded by	.Rnv-r	1	.	and	adopted on

June 14, 2016 by the following vote:

AYES:	,*7

NOES:

ABSENT:. JL________

WHEREUPON, the President declared the foregoing resolution adopted, and

SO ORDERED.

Board Preside

4

EXHIBIT A

Summary of Measure

The Measure shall be summarized in the following form, and the County of Sonoma
Registrar of Voters is requested to cause this summary of the Measure to appear on
ballot:

To renew the community's commitment to great local schools by enhancing
computer and technology education, maintaining libraries, preserving
classroom and instrumental music programs, and supporting science
programs with $1.1 million in annual funding, shall the Rincon Valley Union
School District renew its existing annual tax beginning in 2018 for twelve
years at the rate of $96 per parcel with annual $3 increases and a complete
exemption for parcels owned and occupied by senior citizens 65 years and
older?

Exhibit A

EXHIBIT B

FULL BALLOT TEXT
RINCON VALLEY UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT
EXCELLENCE IN EDUCATION ACT OF 2016
Measure___________________

[letter designation to be assigned by Sonoma County]

Proceeds of the Excellence in Education Act of 2016 shall be authorized to be
used by the Rincon Valley Union School District ("District") to continue to attract high
quality teachers, provide for necessary educational programs and materials, provide
instructional assistance and materials for students who struggle with basic skills and
students who excel, keep school libraries open and extend library hours, manage
increases in class sizes, and maintain and expand music and band programs, add
science labs (including equipment and supplies), and expand the technology program
at each school site including necessary equipment, software and training. The
District shall be further authorized to apply the proceeds of the tax to such
educational materials, program and staff expenses as may be required to
supplement or enhance any of the purposes described above for the furtherance of
student achievement.

A.	Amount and Basis of Tax

This qualified special tax shall authorize the District to levy a special tax of
$96 per Parcel of Taxable Real Property beginning July 1, 2018, and continuing for a
period of twelve (12) years. After the first year in which this qualified special tax is
levied, the rate of the qualified special tax shall be increased by $3 each year.

This qualified special tax is estimated to raise $1.1 million in annual local
funding for District schools. The amount of annual local funding raised by this
qualified special tax will vary from year-to-year due to a number of factors, including
annual increases, and changes in the number of parcels exempt from the levy.

"Parcel of Taxable Real Property" is defined as any unit of real property in the
District that receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem property taxes from the
County Tax Collector's Office. All property that is otherwise exempt from or upon
which no ad valorem property taxes are levied in any year shall also be exempt from
the special tax in such year.

B.	Exemptions

Under procedures adopted by the District, upon application or confirmation of
a continuing exemption, an exemption from payment of the special tax may be
granted on any parcel owned by one or more persons who is/are:

1.	An individual who will attain 65 years of age prior to July 1 of the tax
year, owns a beneficial interest in the parcel, and occupies that parcel
as his or her principal place of residence ("Senior Citizen Exemption");
or,

Exhibit B-l

2.	Receiving Supplemental Security Income for a disability, regardless of
age, and occupying said parcel as a principal residence ("SSI
Exemption"); or

3.	Receiving Social Security Disability Insurance benefits, regardless of
age, whose yearly income does not exceed 250 percent of the 2012
federal poverty guidelines issued by the United States Department of
Health and Human Services ("SSDI Exemption").

Applications for all exemptions shall be made to the District in accordance with
District policies and on or before May 31 prior to the tax year in which the exemption
may first be granted. No retroactive exemptions will be granted. Any one
application from a qualified applicant will provide an exemption for the parcel for the
remaining term of the tax so long as such applicant continues to meet the
requirements for the exemption. Approved exemptions in effect for a prior parcel tax
measure will not require re-approval and the exemption will remain in effect so long
as such applicant continues to meet the requirements for the exemption. The District
shall annually provide to the Sonoma County Tax Collector ("County Tax Collector")
or other appropriate County official a list of parcels that the District has approved for
an exemption.

C.	Claims / Exemption Procedures

With respect to all general property tax matters within its jurisdiction, the County
Tax Collector or other appropriate County tax official shall make all final
determinations of tax exemption or relief for any reason, and that decision shall be
final and binding. With respect to matters specific to the levy of the special tax
including any exemptions, the application of the definition of "Parcel of Taxable Real
Property" to any parcel(s), the legality or validity of the special tax, or any other
disputed matter specific to the application of the special tax, the decisions of the
District shall be final and binding. The procedures described herein, and any
additional procedures established by the Board shall be the exclusive claims
procedure for claimants seeking an exemption, refund, reduction, or re-computation
of the special tax. Whether any particular claim is to be resolved by the District or
by the County shall be determined by the District, in coordination with the County as
necessary.

D.	Appropriations Limit

Pursuant to California Constitution Article XIIIB and applicable laws, the
appropriations limit for the District will be adjusted periodically by the aggregate sum
collected by levy of this qualified special tax.

E.	Mandatory Accountability Protections

1.	Specific Purposes. The proceeds of the special tax shall be applied
only to the specific purposes identified above. The proceeds of the
special tax shall be deposited into a fund, which shall be kept separate

, and apart from other funds of the District.

2.	Annual Reports. No later than December 31 of each year while the tax
is in effect, the District shall prepare and file with the Board a report
detailing the amount of funds collected and expended, and the status
of any project authorized to be funded by this measure. The report

Exhibit B-2

may relate to the calendar year, fiscal year, or other appropriate
annual period, and may be incorporated into or filed with the annual
budget, audit, or other appropriate routine report to the Board.

F.	Protection of Funding

Current law forbids any decrease in State or federal funding to the District
resulting from the adoption of qualified special tax. However, if any such funding is
reduced or affected because of the adoption of this local funding measure, then the
Board may reduce the amount of the special taxes levied as necessary in order to
restore such State or federal funding and/or maximize the District's fiscal position for
the benefit of the educational program. As a result, whether directly or indirectly, no
funding from this measure may be taken away by the State or federal governments.

G.	Severability

The Board hereby declares, and the voters by approving this Measure concur,
that every section and part of this Measure has independent value, and the Board
and the voters would have adopted each provision hereof regardless of every other
provision hereof. Upon approval of this Measure by the voters, should any part of
the Measure or taxing formula be found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be
invalid for any reason, all remaining parts of the Measure or taxing formula hereof
shall remain in full force and effect to the fullest extent allowed by law.

Exhibit B-3

EXHIBIT C

FORMAL NOTICE OF SPECIAL TAX ELECTION
[For Use by County Superintendent]

NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN to the qualified electors of the Rincon Valley Union School
District of Sonoma County, California, that in accordance with the provisions of the
Education Code and the Government Code of the State of California, an election will be held
on November 8, 2016, for the purpose of submitting to the qualified electors of the District
the measure summarized as follows:

To renew the community commitment to great local schools by enhancing computer
and technology education, maintaining libraries, preserving classroom and
instrumental music programs, and supporting science programs with $1.1 million in
annual funding, shall the Rincon Valley Union School District renew its existing
annual tax beginning in 2018 for twelve years at the rate of $96 per parcel, with
annual $3 increases and a complete exemption for parcels owned and occupied by
senior citizens 65 years and older?

By execution of this formal Notice of Election the Sonoma County Superintendent of
Schools orders consolidation of the election with such other elections as may be held on the
same day in the same territory or in territory that is in part the same.

The Sonoma County Superintendent of Schools, by this Notice of Election has called
the election pursuant to a Resolution and Order of the Governing Board of the Rincon V II v
Union School District adopted June 14, 2016, in accordance with the provisions of fh a<--
Code Sections 5302, 5325 and 5361.	tducation

2016.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this day,

/StP yen D. Herringte^T, Ph.D.

Sonoma County (Superintendent of Schools
Santa Rosa, California



Exhibit C