Ballot question

The following question appeared on the ballot:[i]

Shall an initiative of the people of the County of Mendocino to add a
temporary half-cent sales tax to fund facilities in Mendocino County to
assist in the diagnosis and treatment of mental health and drug
dependence be approved?[2]

Impartial analysis

The following impartial analysis of the measure was prepared by the office of the

Mendocino County Counsel:

This ballot measure seeks voter approval for the adoption of a Mental
Health Facility Development Initiative which would temporarily impose a
special one-half of one percent (0.5%) sales tax applicable in both the
unincorporated and incorporated areas of the County of Mendocino. On a
purchase of one hundred dollars ($100.00), the increase would be fifty
cents ($.50) in the unincorporated areas, and fifty cents ($.50) in the cities.
The tax imposed will automatically sunset and will no longer be collected
five (5) years after it becomes operative.

The voters of the Cities of Willits, Ukiah, Point Arena, and Fort Bragg
previously adopted sales tax increases applicable to the incorporated
areas of those cities. If approved by two-thirds of the voters, this measure
would result in increasing the total sales tax in the unincorporated area of
the County from 7.625% to 8.125%, the total sales tax in the Cities of
Willits, Ukiah and Point Arena from 8.125% to 8.625%, and the total sales
tax in the City of Fort Bragg from 8.625% to 9.125%.

The County currently receives 1% of the 7.625% sales tax (0.25% goes to
County transportation funds and 0.75% goes into the County general fund
for County operations). State law allows the electorate to seek voter
approval for this additional half cent (0.5%) special sales tax. Revenue
from this tax will be placed into a special fund to be used only for the
planning, preparation, development, furnishing and maintenance of
facilities that would provide mental health services. Ten percent (10%) of
those funds would be used for the purpose of establishing and maintaining
a public safety/mental health training facility. Under existing State law,
these funds may not be diverted by the State for any other use.

The tax will be administered by the California State Board of Equalization
pursuant to a contract with the County, and can only be administered if
Measure AH also passes. Because of the time required by the State to
begin collecting the tax, the measure does not become operative until 110
days after it is approved by the voters.

The funds produced by this special tax are to be reviewed by an
independent oversight committee composed of eleven members.

This initiative was placed on the ballot by a petition signed by the requisite
number of voters.

This initiative must be adopted by two-thirds (2/3) of the voters.

A YES vote will be a vote in favor of adoption of the proposed initiative.

A NO vote will be a vote against the adoption of the proposed initiative.[2]

Mendocino County Counsels