Humboldt County, California,
Transportation Sales Tax, Measure U
(November 2016)

Ballot question

The following question appeared on the ballot:^

To supplement existing funding for maintenance, rehabilitation, and reconstruction of
existing transportation including trails and transit; local match leveraging of
state/federal funds for road, trail, and transit infrastructure; and retention of existing
commercial air service, shall the Humboldt County voters adopt an ordinance
establishing a 1/20 per dollar sales tax throughout Humboldt County for 20 years,
raising approximately $10,000,000 annually, requiring independent audits, separate
accounts, public oversight and local revenue control?^

Impartial analysis

The following impartial analysis of the measure was prepared by the office of the Humboldt

County Counsel:

M Measure U would authorize the adoption of a one-half percent (1/2 %) local

transportation authority transaction and use tax to be in effect for a period of twenty
(20) years countywide. Revenue from the tax could only be used to fund the eligible
uses listed in the adopted Humboldt County Transportation Ballot Measure
Expenditure Plan, a complete copy of which is included in the voter information
handbook. Because Measure U calls for the adoption of a special tax for a specific
purpose, the maintenance and improvement of local road and transportation
infrastructure projects, it must be approved by a two-thirds vote of the electorate as
required by California Constitution Article XIII C, Section 2 (d).

If passed, Measure U would ratify the Humboldt County Association of Governments
(HCAOG) Transaction and Use Tax Ordinance No. 16-02, adopted by HCAOG acting
in its capacity as the Humboldt County Transportation Authority (HCTA) on July 21,

2016. If Measure U fails to pass, Ordinance No. 16-02 would be ineffective.

//

The one half percent (1/2 %) retail sales tax would be applicable within both the
incorporated cities and the unincorporated area of the County of Humboldt. Revenues

will be allocated on an annual basis to the County of Humboldt and to the Cities of
Areata, Blue Lake, Eureka, Femdale, Fortuna, Rio Dell, and Trinidad in accordance
with a formula set forth in the ordinance. No more than one half percent (.5%) of funds
may be used for administration by HCAOG. Ordinance No. 16-02 establishes a system
of accountability, including annual independent audits, a taxpayer oversight committee,
and an annual report. The tax would be collected and administered by the State Board
of Equalization, under contract with the HTCA.

By law (Revenue and Tax Code section 7251.1), the combined rate of all local
transaction and use taxes imposed in Humboldt County may not exceed two percent
(2%).

Measure U was placed on the ballot by vote of the Humboldt County Board of
Supervisors on August 9, 2016, as authorized by California Public Utilities Code
section 180203.^

—Humboldt County Counsel111
Full text

The full text of the measure is available here.

Support

Supporters

The following individuals signed the official argument in favor of the measure:1^1

•	FrankJager

•	Rex Bohn

•	Mark Lovelace

Arguments in favor

Official argument

The following official argument was submitted in favor of the measure:1^

If you walk, ride, or drive on streets and roads in Humboldt County, you know they
need help. In recent years, state and federal funding for road maintenance has fallen
significantly. We can no longer rely on these sources to take care of our streets and
roads. By voting YES on Measure U, voters will generate $200 million over the next
20 years for maintenance of existing transportation infrastructure.

VOTE YES ON MEASURE U to reverse the trend of deteriorating city streets and
county roads. Current funding for street and road maintenance doesn’t allow us to keep
up, let alone improve the situation.

VOTE YES ON MEASURE U to save money in the future. The longer we delay fixing
roads, the more expensive it becomes. We are on the edge of never being able to catch
up.

VOTE YES ON MEASURE U to inject money back into our local economy. $200
million in street and road maintenance will generate badly needed jobs!

VOTE YES ON MEASURE U to ensure that first responders have safe access in an
emergency. Well maintained streets and roads mean quicker response times for police
and fire.

VOTE YES ON MEASURE U to increase local control of transportation funding.
Despite numerous efforts and promises, state and federal legislators have failed to
provide adequate funding to maintain our streets and roads.

VOTE YES ON MEASURE U to hold local officials accountable. With independent
audits of expenditures and a taxpayer oversight committee, citizens will know that
funds are being spent appropriately.

VOTE YES ON MEASURE U and join a broad coalition on both sides of the political
aisle to safeguard our transportation infrastructure for the future! ^

Opposition

Opponents

The following individuals signed the official argument against the measure:^

• Kent Sawatzky, concerned citizen

Arguments against

Official argument

The following official argument was submitted in opposition to the measure:^

Although this measure is a dedicated transportation tax, limited to the maintenance of
existing services, there is no assurance that roads, which have hundreds of millions of
dollars in deferred maintenance, will be given priority.

It can only be spent on existing services. It cannot be spent on new trails, or other new
transportation needs.

It could, however, be spent be spent on our constantly money loosing existing
commercial air service.

HCAOG has stated that they fully expect the promotion of this measure to be provided
by large construction companies who will then be the beneficiaries.

At four times longer than the normal sunset for such tax measures, the 20 years sunset
for this measure is entirely too long.

Any new $200,000,000 tax is much more needed to maintain safety and protection for
the public, be it 9-1-1 emergency response, protection of abused children or the proper
care of the mentally ill.^