Wilmar Union School District,
California, Parcel Tax, Measure I
(November 2016)

| Text of measure

Ballot question

The following question appeared on the ballot:'1]

// To provide stable funding the State cannot take away, protect academic
programs in reading assistance, writing, math, art, science and vocal and
instrumental music, retain qualified teachers, maintain student counseling
services, and provide books and instructional materials, shall the Wilmar
Union School District be authorized to levy $75 per parcel annually for nine
(9) years, (approximate total $79,500 annual funds raised): have no funds
for administrators’ salaries, provide a senior citizens’ exemption and have all
funds stay local?'2]

Impartial analysis

The following impartial analysis of the measure was prepared by the office of the
Sonoma County Counsel:

The Wilmar Union School District has called an election on a special tax measure
to fund identified educational purposes. State law authorizes school districts to levy
a special tax upon approval of two-thirds of the voting electorate.

This measure proposes a special tax of $75 per year per parcel for each parcel of
land within the District’s boundaries. The tax would begin on July 1, 2017, and
would remain in effect for no more than nine (9) years. The tax would be collected
and administered in the same manner as regular ad valorem property taxes.

If Measure I is approved, the proceeds of the tax would be deposited in a special
fund and could only be used for the purposes set out in the full text of the measure.
The stated purposes of the special parcel tax are protecting core academic programs,
retaining teachers, maintaining student counseling services, helping protect the
number of instructional days, and providing books and instructional materials
(including classroom technology). No portion of the proceeds may be used to pay
for administrators’ salaries.

The proposed tax would apply to each parcel of taxable land in the District, with
some exemptions described below. Measure I defines “parcel” as any unit of land in
the District that receives a separate tax bill from the Sonoma County Tax Collector.
The tax would not apply to parcels that are exempt from property taxes.

Additionally, upon application to the District, an exemption shall be available to
parcels owned by one or more persons who are aged 65 years or older and own and
occupy the parcel as a principal residence, or to persons who receive Supplemental
Security Income for a disability, regardless of age, and own and occupy the parcel
as a principal residence.

The District’s chief fiscal officer would make an annual report to the District Board
of Trustees detailing the amount of revenue collected and expended under the
special tax and the status of any project funded by said tax revenue.

If two-thirds of the voters in the Wilmar Union School District who vote on this
measure vote “yes,” the measure will pass and the special tax will be levied.[2'

—Sonoma County Counsel111