Section

Ballot Measures-SS	7

CC City of Westminster, Westminster Police/9-1-1/

Essential City Services Measure

To address state takeaways of local funds, protect property values, drinking water supplies and prevent cuts to: 9-1-1
response times; police officers/firefighters/paramedics; drug/gang prevention, domestic violence/sex crimes/human
trafficking units; and other general city services, shall an ordinance establishing a 1% transactions and use (sales) tax,
expiring December 31, 2022, providing estimated $13.9 million annually, requiring audits, citizens' oversight, all funds

remaining in Westminster, be adopted?	
What your vote means	
YES	NO
A "Yes" vote is a vote in favor of authorizing the transactions and use tax for a period of six years.	A "No" vote is a vote against authorizing the transactions and use tax.

For and against

FOR	AGAINST
Diana Lee Carey  Westminster City Councilmember & Educator	Robert W. Me Cray  Westminster Resident and Taxpayer
Jill Dominguez  Neighborhood Watch Captain & Westminster Resident/ Tax Payer	Carolyn Cavecche  CEO, Orange County Taxpayers Association
Don Anderson  Citizens Financial Task Force Member	
Ken Kaiden  Westminster Auto Dealers Association	

r^-\	Section

Ballot Measures-SS	7

Full Text of Measure SS
City of Westminster

AN ORDINANCE OF THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF WESTMINSTER, ADDING CHAPTER 3.10 TO TITLE 3
(REVENUE AND FINANCE) OF THE WESTMINSTER MUNICIPAL CODE, RELATING TO A TRANSACTIONS AND
USE ("SALES") TAX

WHEREAS, due to Sacramento takeaways, the City of Westminster ("City") has lost over $12 million annually in local tax dollars, and now faces
a $5.3 million budget deficit which will double by 2017;

WHEREAS, the City has depleted its rainy-day fund, will soon be unable to present a balanced budget as required by state law, and is facing
Bankruptcy as soon as the 2018 Fiscal Year;

WHEREAS, this ordinance ensures that our city has a guaranteed source of funding for local services that cannot be seized by Sacramento, and
requires that our tax dollars remain local and can only be used in Westminster;

WHEREAS, in just the last year there have been more than 42,000 9-1-1 calls in Westminster that have required emergency medical attention.
This ordinance will help to maintain firefighters and paramedics, and keep rapid 9-1-1 emergency response times so that people suffering from heart
attacks, strokes or other medical emergencies continue to receive the immediate, life-saving care they need; and

WHEREAS, public safety is a top priority in Westminster, comprising 77% of the City's current budget, and without a local funding source the
City will be forced to make further significant cuts to public safety services, potentially including gang and drug prevention; neighborhood police
patrols; reducing the number of paramedics and firefighters; and consider eliminating the Police Narcotics, Domestic Violence, Sex Crimes, and human
trafficking units in the Westminster Police Department; and

WHEREAS, our community has a history of gang problems, and currently there are over 100 active gang members in Westminster.

WHEREAS, the adoption of this revenue measure will prevent further deep cuts to gang and drug prevention programs, and will continue after
school programs that keep children and youth off the streets and away from gangs and drugs; and

WHEREAS, we need to do more to stimulate local economic growth and create more well-paying local jobs for residents, and additional funds
will help Westminster remain attractive to businesses, visitors and homebuyers by fixing blight and filling vacant storefronts with new businesses,
strengthening local property values; and

WHEREAS, this ordinance provides the funds necessary to prevent further cuts to basic programs such as the continued provision of fast 911
emergency, police and fire protection response times, preventing cuts to paramedics, gang prevention officers and firefighters, protecting drinking
water supplies, repairing streets and potholes, and providing a good environment for businesses, and helping to financially stabilize the city and
prevent bankruptcy; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to California Revenue and Taxation Code Section 7285.9, the City of Westminster has the authority to levy a Transactions
and Use Tax for general purposes, subject to approval by a majority vote of the electorate pursuant to Article XIIIC, Section 2 of the California
Constitution ("Proposition 218")

WHEREAS, the people of the City desire to levy a one percent (1%) Transactions and Use Tax ("Sales Tax") on the sale of all tangible personal
property sold at retail in the City;

WHEREAS, the Sales Tax would be a general tax, the revenue of which would be placed in the City's general fund and used to pay for essential
City services, including public safety.

WHEREAS, this ordinance includes strict accountability provisions such as independent citizens' oversight, public spending reports and annual
independent financial audits to ensure that every cent of our money is used effectively, efficiently, and as promised to voters; and

WHEREAS, the people of the City believe that only a locally approved voter funding source would guarantee that new revenue stays in
Westminster to help the City provide essential services to its residents; and

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF WESTMINSTER DO HEREBY ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. Chapter 3.10 (Transactions and Use Tax) is hereby added to Title 3 (Revenue and Finance) of the Westminster Municipal Code as

follows:

3.10.005. This ordinance shall be known as the "City of Westminster Transactions (Sales) and Use Tax Ordinance." The City of Westminster hereinafter
shall be referred to as "City." This ordinance shall be applicable in the incorporated territory of the City.

3.10.010 Purpose.

This ordinance is adopted to achieve the following, among other purposes, and directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish
those purposes:

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the provisions of Part 1. 6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code and Section 7285.9 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 which authorizes the City to adopt this tax ordinance which shall be
operative if a majority of the electors voting on the measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax at an election called for that purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates provisions identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State
of California insofar as those provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code.

Section

Ballot Measures-SS	7

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax and provides a measure therefore that can be administered and
collected by the State Board of Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and requires the least possible deviation
from, the existing statutory and administrative procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization in administering and collecting the
California State Sales and Use Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be administered in a manner that will be, to the greatest degree possible,
consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting the transactions and
use taxes, and at the same time, minimize the burden of record keeping upon persons subject to taxation under the provisions of this ordinance.

3.10.020 Contract with state.

Prior to the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing more than 110 days after the adoption of this ordinance ("operative date"), the City shall
contract with the State Board of Equalization to perform all functions incident to the administration and operation of this transactions and use tax
ordinance; provided, that if the City shall not have contracted with the State Board of Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall nevertheless so
contract and in such a case the operative date shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter following the execution of such a contract.

3.10.030	Transactions tax rate.

For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated territory of the City at the
rate of one percent (1%) of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail in said territory on and after
the operative date of this ordinance.

3.10.040 Place of sale.

For the purposes of this ordinance, all retail sales are consummated at the place of business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is
delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts
from such sales shall include delivery charges, when such charges are subject to the state sales and use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery
is made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the State or has more than one place of business, the place or places at which
the retail sales are consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the State Board of Equalization.

3.10.050 Use tax rate.

An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other consumption in the City of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on
and after the operative date of this ordinance for storage, use or other consumption in said territory at the rate of one percent (1%) of the sales price
of the property. The sales price shall include delivery charges when such charges are subject to state sales or use tax regardless of the place to which
delivery is made.

3.10.060 Adoption of provisions of state law.

Except as otherwise provided in this ordinance and except insofar as they are inconsistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted
and made a part of this ordinance as though fully set forth herein.

3.10.070 Limitation on adoption of state law and collection of use taxes.

In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the name of the City of Westminster shall be substituted therefor.
However, the substitution shall not be made when:

1.	The word " State' is used as a part of the title of the State Controller, State Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Board of Equalization,
State Treasury, or the Constitution of the State of California.

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against this City or any agency, officer, or employee thereof
rather than by or against the State Board of Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the administration or operation of this
Ordinance.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sections referring to the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where
the result of the substitution would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property
which would not otherwise be exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other consumption remain subject to tax
by the State under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property which would not
be subject to tax by the state under the said provision of that code.

4.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711, 6715, 6737, 6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

B.	The word "City" shall be substituted for the word " State' in the phrase "retailer engaged in business in this State" in Section 6203 and in the
definition of that phrase in Section 6203.

3.10.080 Permit not required.

If a seller's permit has been issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional transactor's permit shall not be
required by this ordinance.

Ballot Measures-SS

3.10.090 Exemptions, exclusions and termination.

Section

7

A. There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the use tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State
of California or by any city, city and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the amount of any
state-administered transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax the gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum products, to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally
outside the county in which the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or
property under the authority of the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the City which is shipped to a point outside the City, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery
to such point by the retailer or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at such point. For the
purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point outside the City shall be satisfied:

a.	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 ( commencing with
Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code,
and undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration
to an out-of-City address and by a declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that such address is, in fact,
his or her principal place of residence; and

b.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of business out-of-City and declaration under penalty of perjury,
signed by the buyer, that the vehicle will be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to furnish the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered
into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated
to lease the property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, the sale or lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be
obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right
to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this ordinance, the storage, use or other consumption in this City of tangible personal
property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a transactions tax under any state administered transactions and use tax
ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of aircraft and used or consumed by such operators directly and
exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under a certificate of public
convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign government. This exemption is in
addition to the exemptions provided in Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of
this ordinance.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the tangible personal property arises under a lease which is a continuing
purchase of such property for any period of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by a lease
prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this subsection (C), storage, use, or other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of
any right or power over, tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period
of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether
or not such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7) of this subsection (C), a retailer engaged in business in the City shall not be required to collect
use tax from the purchaser of tangible personal property, unless the retailer ships or delivers the property into the City or participates
within the City in making the sale of the property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving the order, either directly or
indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer in the City or through any representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person
in the City under the authority of the retailer.

7.	A retailer engaged in business in the City" shall also include any retailer of any of the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant
to Chapter 1 commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of
the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code.
That retailer shall be required to collect use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address
in the City.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit against that tax any transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid
to a district imposing, or retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code with respect
to the sale to the person of the property the storage, use or other consumption of which is subject to the use tax.

Ballot Measures-SS

E. The transactions and use tax imposed hereunder shall be levied until December 31, 2022, at which time it will terminate.

3.10.100 Amendments.

Section

7

A.	All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales
and use taxes and which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and all amendments to
Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part of this ordinance, provided however,
that no such amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this ordinance.

B.	The following amendments shall not be effective unless they are first approved by the voters of the City: any increase to the tax rate; any
revision to the methodology for calculating the tax such that a tax increase would result; any imposition of the tax on transactions and uses
not previously subject to the tax (unless such amendment occurs automatically under state law by operation of section 3.10.100A). Except as
limited above, the City Council is authorized to amend this Ordinance.

3.10.110 Enjoining collection forbidden.

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit, action or proceeding in any court against the State or the
City, or against any officer of the State or the City, to prevent or enjoin the collection under this ordinance, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.

3.10.120 Fiscal Accountability Provisions; Citizen Oversight and Independent Annual Financial Audits.

Consistent with the City's ongoing commitment to citizen involvement as a fundamental principle of good government, specific citizen oversight and
fiscal accountability provisions regarding the revenues collected as a result of the adoption of this ordinance are hereby established as follows:

A.	Independent Annual Financial Audit. The amount generated by this new general purpose revenue source and how the revenues were used
shall be included in the annual audit of the City's financial operations by an independent certified public accountant.

B.	Integration of the Use of Funds into the City's Budget and Strategic Planning Process. The estimated revenue and proposed use of funds
generated by this ordinance shall be an integral part of the City's budget and strategic planning process, and significant opportunities will be provided
for meaningful participation by citizens in determining priority use of these funds.

C.	Annual Community Report. A written report will be provided annually to every household in the City detailing how much revenue is being
generated by the ordinance and how funds are being used.

D.	Bi-annual Citizen Oversight Meeting. An oversight committee appointed by City Council will convene twice in a yearly period to review and
discuss the use of the revenue generated by the measure. City staff will also be available to meet with any group that requests a specific briefing with
their members to discuss and answer questions about the revenue generated by the measure and its uses.

SECTION 2. Approval by the Voters.

Pursuant to California Elections Code section 9217, this Ordinance shall take effect only if approved by a majority of the eligible voters of the City of
Westminster voting at the Regular Election of November 8, 2016, and shall take effect ten (10) days after the City Council has certified the results of
that election by resolution.

SECTION 3. Severability.

If any provision of this ordinance or the application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the ordinance and the
application of such provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

Ballot Measures-SS

Impartial Analysis
City of Westminster
Measure SS

Section

7

If approved by a majority of voters, this measure would adopt an ordinance imposing a one percent (1%) transactions and use tax in the City of
Westminster. This tax would operate for a period of six years.

This transactions and use tax was placed on the ballot by the Westminster City Council on June 22, 2016. The tax would be administered for the City by
the State Board of Equalization, which also administers state and local sales and use taxes. Generally, the tax would be applied in the City along with
existing state and local sales and use taxes. With respect to sales and leases of vehicles, vessels and aircraft, the transactions and use would apply not
based on the point of sale, but on the location where the vehicle, vessel or aircraft will be registered.

All proceeds of the tax would be placed in the City's general fund, except for any administrative expenses of the State Board of Equalization. The funds
are available to the City for any lawful municipal purpose.

The measure requires an independent annual financial audit of the revenue generated by this measure and how the revenue is used. The measure also
requires an annual community report be created and provided to every Westminster household. This report will detail how much revenue is being
generated and how funds are being used. Finally, the measure requires the City Council to appoint an oversight committee that will convene twice a
year to review and discuss the use of the revenue generated by this measure.

Collection of the tax would begin on the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing more than 110 days after the adoption of this ordinance
by both the voters and by the City Council.

A "yes" vote is a vote in favor of authorizing the transactions and use tax for a period of six years. A "no" vote is a vote against authorizing the
transactions and use tax.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure SS. If you desire a copy of the measure, please call the Office of the City Clerk at
714-548-3174 and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you.

Section

Ballot Measures-SS	7

Argument in Favor of Measure SS

VOTE YES ON MEASURE SS!

MEASURE SS will provide locally funding, that cannot be taken by the
State, and give Westminster police the resources they need to combat
crime, crack down on gangs, drugs homelessness, and keep our families
safe.

DID YOU KNOW?

•	State money grabs have forced Westminster to cut police funding
by millions of dollars, reducing the number of sworn officers in
Westminster to the same number as we had in the 1980s.

•	There are over 100 active gang members in Westminster.

•	There were more than 37,000 emergency 911 calls in Westminster
the last year.

•	That without Measure SS more cuts will have to be made.

IN AN EMERGENCY SECONDS COUNT

YES on Measure SS will help protect Westminster's 911 emergency and
medical response services that protect residents from crime, provide
medical assistance, and save lives.

NOTHING HURTS HOME VALUES MORE THAN HIGH CRIME RATES

YES on Measure SS will protect our home values by maintaining
neighborhood police patrols and crime prevention programs.

FIGHT GANGS AND DRUGS

YES on Measure SS will prevent devastating cuts to gang and drug
prevention programs and continue after school programs that keep
children and youth off the streets and away from the dangers of gangs
and drugs.

HOLDING THE CITY COUNCIL ACCOUNTABLE

MEASURE SS includes STRICT ACCOUNTABILITY and FISCAL
SAFEGUARDS including independent citizens' oversight, public spending
reports and annual independent audits to make sure that every cent of
Measure SS is used effectively, efficiently and as promised to voters.

ALL MEASURE SS funds are required by law to REMAIN LOCAL and can
only be used in Westminster.

PROTECT OUR FAMILIES, OUR NEIGHBORHOODS, and OUR HOMES.

Join your Westminster Police Officers, Emergency Responders and
Neighborhood Leaders in voting YES on Measure SS

s/ Diana Lee Carey

Westminster City Councilmember & Educator
s/ Jill Dominguez

Neighborhood Watch Captain & Westminster Resident/Tax Payer
s/ Don Anderson

Citizens Financial Task Force Member

Rebuttal to Argument in Favor of Measure SS

Measure SS supporters claim that increasing your taxes is needed to
provide for public safety. Don't be fooled: Measure SS is NOT a special
tax for public safety.

Measure SS is a general sales tax that goes directly into the general
fund and can be used for anything the city council decides it wants to
spend it on.

Salary increases,

Increases to pension benefits,

New Buildings,

Land deals,

Anything.

The city council could have made this a special tax for public safety, but
they did not!

Why hasn't the city council cut their own salaries, pensions, and benefits
before asking the taxpayers to pay more?

Why has the city council continued year after year to pass budgets that
are not balanced?

The taxpayers of Westminster need to ask themselves if they can trust city
hall with more of their hard earned dollars.

Send a clear message, enough is enough.

Vote No on Measure SS

s/ Robert W. Me Cray
Westminster Resident and Taxpayer

s/ Carolyn Cavecche

CEO Orange County Taxpayers Association

s/ Ken Kaiden

Westminster Auto Dealers Association

Section

Ballot Measures-SS	7

Argument Against Measure SS

Measure SS will give Westminster one of the highest sales tax rates
in Orange County

This tax increase will hit taxpayers in every aspect of our lives:

Buying gasoline

Shopping for clothes or vitamins
Eating out in a restaurant
Buying school or office supplies
Shopping for items for your home

This tax increase will even follow you wherever you buy a car, even if that
is not in Westminster.

Westminster businesses will suffer as they lose customers to businesses
in other cities,

Don't be mislead, this is a general tax that goes directly into the general
fund. It cannot be used for a specific purpose, no matter what you are
being told. It can be used for salary increases, increases to pension
benefits, anything the city council decides.

Westminster taxpayers already pay a utility tax on telephone use,
electricity, gas, water and cable TV.

For years city councils have passed yearly budgets that have not been
balanced, yearly pension payments have been increasing by millions of
dollars, and the city has been paying to defend themselves in federal
lawsuits.

Now the politicians want the taxpayers to step up and pay more, almost
14 million dollars more every year.

Tell City Hall to live within their means and Vote No on Higher Taxes.

s/ Robert W. Me Cray
Westminster Resident and Taxpayer

s/ Carolyn Cavecche

CEO, Orange County Taxpayers Association

Rebuttal to Argument Against Measure SS

Nobody likes taxes, but what's worse is the condition of public safety in
our city.

HERE ARE THE FACTS OPPONENTS WANT YOU TO IGNORE.

S Crime is on the rise in Westminster

S Home invasions, burglaries, and other property crimes are out of
control.

S Gangs and drugs are taking over our city
S Homelessness has hit astronomic levels
S 911 response times have become longer

YES on SS will:

•	Prevent cuts to the number of paramedics and firefighters in
Westminster

•	Put more sworn police officers on the street to patrol our
neighborhoods and schools

•	Ensure fast 911 emergency and medical response to emergencies

•	Increase police gang suppression and prevention

YES on SS protects 911 emergency and medical response services that
are essential for fighting crime, providing medical assistance, and saving
lives.

YES on SS protects home values by combating crime in our neighborhoods.

YES on SS prevents cuts to gang/drug prevention and after school
programs which are critical to keeping youth off the streets and away
from gangs and drugs.

Over the past few years the State has taken millions of dollars away from
Westminster. Police and 911 services have been cut to the bone and are
at 1980s levels.

Measure SS is about protecting our Police and 911 services.

Measure SS provides ACCOUNTABLE LOCAL FUNDS that cannot be
taken by the state. Measure SS requires INDEPENDENT OVERSIGHT and
ANNUAL FINANCIAL AUDITS to monitor funds.

Join us in Voting YES on SS to Save Westminster's Police and 911 services,
s/ Mike Ogawa

President, Westminster Police Officers Association

s/ Tony Lam

Business Owner & Former Councilmember
s/ Steve James

Police Lieutenant & Westminster Resident
s/ Gilbert Cruz

Citizens Financial Task Force Member

s/ John Gentile

Business Owner & Westminster Resident