online editio: San Francisco Voter Information Pamphlet & Sample

BallotConsolidated General Election
November 8, 2016

General Sales Tax

Shall the City increase its sales tax by 0.75%, for a total tax of 9.25%?

Digest by the Ballot Simplification Committee

The Way It Is Now: San Francisco has an 8.75% sales tax, with two parts:

•	7.5% in State taxes, of which the City receives 1.25%; and

•	1.25% in local sales taxes that fund the Bay Area Rapid Transit District (BART), the San Francisco County

Transportation Authority and the San Francisco County Public Finance Authority.

After December 31, 2016, the overall sales tax in San Francisco will be reduced to 8.5%.

State law allows the City to increase the local sales tax up to an additional 0.75%, with voter approval.

State law limits the amount of revenue, including tax revenue, the City can spend each year. Under State law,
San Francisco voters can approve increases to this limit for a maximum of four years.

The Proposal: Proposition K is an ordinance that would increase the sales tax in San Francisco by 0.75%, for
a total tax of 9.25%. This 0.75% increase would go into the General Fund.

If voters approve this proposition, the increase would start on April 1, 2017. The sales tax increase would
expire after 25 years.

Proposition K would also increase the State’s limit on the City’s annual tax revenue spending by the amount of
additional taxes collected under the proposed rate increase. The increased limit would last for four years.

A “YES” Vote Means: If you vote “yes,” you want the City to increase its sales tax by 0.75%, for a total tax
of 9.25%.

A “NO” Vote Means: If you vote “no,” you do not want to make this change.

Controller’s Statement on “K”

City Controller Ben Rosenfield has issued the following statement on the fiscal impact of Proposition K:

Should this ordinance be approved, in my opinion, it would result in an annual tax revenue increase to the City
of an estimated $37.5 million in fiscal year (FY) 2016-2017 and $155.1 million in FY 2017-18. The tax is a
general tax and proceeds would be deposited into the General Fund.

The measure would amend the City’s Business Tax and Regulations Code to increase the local sales tax rate by
0.75% (three-quarters of one percent) as of April 2017, for a period of twenty-five years.

How “K” Got on the Ballot

On July 26, 2016, the Board of Supervisors voted 8 to 3 to place Proposition K on the ballot. The Supervisors
voted as follows:

Yes: Avalos, Breed, Campos, Cohen, Farrell, Mar, Tang, Wiener.

No: Kim, Peskin, Yee.

This measure requires 50%+l affirmative votes to pass.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of this measure. Some of the words used in the ballot digest are

explained in Words you need to know >.

HideProponent’s Argument in Favor of Proposition K

Proposition K restores and grows funding for vital local services.

Proposition K will generate $150 million for San Francisco’s General Fund to invest in housing the homeless,
fixing public transportation, improving neighborhood public safety and building more affordable housing.

Proposition K is progressive and fair because the wealthy, big corporations and visitors to San Francisco
who spend more will always pay more.

Proposition K is a progressive approach to funding vital services, because wealthy individuals and
corporations that make large purchases always pay more. What’s more, only about half of our local sales tax is
paid by local residents, with the rest paid for by tourists, visitors and businesses buying from other businesses.

San Francisco’s sales tax rate will STILL be lower than many other Bay Area Cities & Counties.

San Francisco today has a lower sales tax rate than many other Bay Area cities and counties, including
adjacent Alameda and San Mateo Counties. In addition, a quarter-cent sales tax increase approved by
California voters in 2012 is set to expire in 2017. Proposition K will increase the overall local sales tax by just
half a penny over what it is today. And even with the passage of Proposition K, San Francisco will STILL have
a lower sales tax rate than many other Bay Area cities and counties.

The funds generated by Proposition K will remain in San Francisco to be spent 100% on local priorities
and vital services.

Please join us in voting for much-needed funding for vital public services. For progress on homelessness, for
better transportation, for improved public safety, affordable housing and investing in our future, please vote
YES on Proposition K.

Mayor Ed Lee
Supervisor John Avalos
Supervisor London Breed
Supervisors Malia Cohen
Supervisor Mark Farrell
Supervisor Eric Mar
Supervisor Katy Tang
Supervisor Scott Wiener

Arguments are the opinions of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency. Arguments are
published as submitted. Spelling and grammatical errors have not been corrected.

HideRebuttal to Proponent’s Argument in Favor of Proposition K
VOTE NO on PROP K
BAIT, SWITCH and GRAB

Fight to change the way we spend our money!

The proponent’s misrepresentations are reason to reject Prop K.

Please consider independent analysis and data:

•	City Economist’s economic impact report: “Higher prices will lead consumers to reduce their consumption of

local goods and services subject to the higher taxes, which will reduce sales at local merchants selling these
items. Depending on how price-sensitive consumers are, sales at merchants selling non-taxable goods and
services may decline as well.”

•	City Economist’s economic impact report: “Business-to-business categories constitute 16% of the city’s sales

tax revenue; 57% is generated by San Francisco residents.” [Locals pay most sales taxes, not wealthy
tourists].

•	City Economist’s economic impact report: “The tax increase is expected to generate nearly as much tax

revenue as it costs in consumption spending [lost retail sales] —approximately $154 million by 2017-18.”

•	Instead of wisely managing the City’s $9.6 billion budget, which exceeds that of 13 states and many small

countries, City Hall continues to propose muddled, Christmas-tree ballot measures that lockout numerous
needed city services.

•	While eliminating bus lines, shortening routes, cutting night/ weekend hours and frequency, $600 million of

state and local matching funds were diverted to the over-priced, low-ridership Central Subway.

•	Despite billions of dollars in expenditures and in violation of San Francisco’s Prop H, City Hall continues to

impede the downtown extension of Caltrain, the one project that would actually reduce traffic on San
Francisco streets.

Save Muni

Error! Hyperlink reference not valid.

Arguments are the opinions of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency. Arguments are
published as submitted. Spelling and grammatical errors have not been corrected.

HideOpponent's Argument Against Proposition K
VOTE NO on PROP K
BAIT, SWITCH and GRAB

A regressive sales tax is counterproductive. Prop K uses the lure of homelessness to divert funds from cash-
strapped city services to one city agency—which we have already given billions of dollars in sales taxes,
bonds, fares, fees and fines. For any one of the following reasons, Vote No on Prop K:

•	City Economist’s economic impact report of Prop K: “The tax increase is expected to generate nearly as

much tax revenue as it costs in consumption spending [lost retail sales] —approximately $154 million by
2017-18.”

•	As shoppers flee San Francisco for lower sales taxes, particularly along the southern border and easily into

nearby neighborhoods, small businesses will be disproportionately impacted.

•	With ever-rising sales taxes and fees, low and middle-income residents and families will be

disproportionately impacted.

•	Double-Dipping: San Francisco’s sales tax already has an existing fixed transportation allocation.

•	Prop K is the economic-equivalent of rearranging deck chairs on the Titanic—instead of managing the City’s

$9.6 billion budget, which exceeds that of many states and small countries.

•	Despite billions of dollars in expenditures, with a $241 million annual budget, homelessness is worsening.

•	Despite billions of dollars in expenditures, Muni’s per capita ridership has declined—indicating the need for

sound decision-making, not just money.

•	Despite billions of dollars of expenditures and one of the largest budgets in history, voters are taxed more and

more for less and less.

Save Muni
www.SaveMuni. org

Arguments are the opinions of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency. Arguments are
published as submitted. Spelling and grammatical errors have not been corrected.

HideRebuttal to Opponent’s Argument Against Proposition K

VOTE YES ON PROPOSITION K!

Proposition K raises much-needed revenue to address our City’s most urgent challenges, including
HOMELESSNESS, TRANSPORTATION, MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES, STREET REPAVING,
TRAFFIC CONGESTION, AND MORE.

The opponents’ claims are simply wrong.

Proposition K is PROGRESSIVE because big corporations and wealthy people who make large purchases and
spend more will always pay more, while basic necessities like food are exempt.

Proposition K is PROGRESSIVE because it will allow the City to spend $150 million per year on San
Franciscans who most need our help, on homelessness, public transportation, health care and other vital
services.

Proposition K is PROGRESSIVE because it will be spent 100% on local social needs — NONE of this revenue
will be diverted to the State coffers. San Francisco residents only pay about half the tax. The rest is paid by big
businesses buying from each other, non-residents and visitors to our City.

We must address our growing City’s most urgent challenges. Proposition K provides PROGRESSIVE,
RELIABLE General Fund revenues for homelessness, transportation and other vital public services. PLEASE
VOTE YES ON PROPOSITION K!

SPUR

San Francisco Bicycle Coalition

TransForm

WalkSF

San Francisco Transit Riders

Larkin Street Youth Services

Community Housing Partnership

Human Services Network

Episcopal Community Services

Michael Pappas, San Francisco Interfaith Council*

Hamilton Family Services

Homeless Emergency Services Providers Association

JeffKositsky, Director of San Francisco Department of Homelessness & Supportive Housing*

Ed Reiskin, Director, San Francisco Municipal Transportation Agency*

*For identification purposes only; author is signing as an individual and not on behalf of an organization.
Arguments are the opinions of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency. Arguments are
published as submitted. Spelling and grammatical errors have not been corrected.

HidePaid Arguments in Favor of Proposition K

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition K

Funding to end homelessness and fix transit

The City is counting on this measure to fund services and exits from homelessness for people living on the
streets, and improve MUNI service and affordability for low and middle-income residents that depend on
public transportation. We support this sales tax because it will provide crucial funding for services that all San
Franciscans need!

San Francisco Human Services Network

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this argument: San Francisco Human Services Network.

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition K

Proposition K is Smart Money for the Most Important Needs in Our City

Transportation and homelessness are two of the biggest issues facing San Francisco. And now we have the
chance to do something about them.

Not empty words, but actual funding to improve transportation and get people off the street.

Better yet — this money comes mostly from tourists and businesses, but all of it will go to programs that make
life better here for residents.

Prop K is a smart funding measure, and we are proud to join with the majority of transportation and
homelessness advocates in San Francisco to support it.

Vote Yes on Prop K.

SPUR

Full SPUR Voter Guide at spur.org/voterguide2016

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this argument: SPUR.

Arguments are the opinions of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency. Arguments are
published as submitted. Spelling and grammatical errors have not been corrected.

HidePaid Arguments Against Proposition K

Paid Argument AGAINST Proposition K

“LAFFING SAL” ISN’T LAUGHING!!!

Prop “K” NO FUNHOUSE GAME!

Why oppose SF Municipal Transportation Authority?

“K” funds MTA’s war against personal cars. “K” is a black hole disappearing public comment, confidence and
huge sums of money. Who’s laughing?

What’s wrong with the 0.75% sales tax increase?

•	A “General Sales Tax”? “K” skirts Prop 218’s 2/3rds vote for a dedicated sales tax.

•	Called a general sales tax, it’s a dedicated tax to address homelessness and transportation as revealed in Prop

“J”.

Just how generous are we with transportation sales taxes?

In the next 25-years this sales tax increase plus the two existing taxes will garner $8.9 billion.

What will this tax mean to you?

•	It will cost more to shop in SF, especially for low-income families.

•	Big-ticket items like cars and appliances will be bought outside of SF.

•	Spending in SF will drop $150-$155 million/yr.

•	480 small business jobs will be lost, but we’ll add more government jobs.

Opposition to this tax isn’t a NIMBY thing. SFMTA’s war already has moved commuter, rideshare and
delivery traffic onto residential streets. Getting anywhere in the City is an exercise in futility. Look now to
Ocean Ave, Mission St., Lombard and Taraval St. Coming next is Fulton Street where bulb-outs will cause
loading #5 Fulton buses to reduce Fulton to one lane in each direction. On the horizon are BRT’s for Van Ness
Ave. and Geary Blvd. where more small businesses will be lost, more trees uprooted, and more street parking
lost.

Don’t be their fool.

Send the MTA jokers a message!

Vote NO on “K”!

George Balakas *

Coalition for San Francisco Neighborhoods
David W. Dippel*

John M. Fong*

Samuel Lee Horn *

Elena Lazareva *

*For identification purposes only; author is signing as an individual and not on behalf of an organization.

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this argument: Author.

Paid Argument AGAINST Proposition K

Proposition K is a blatant attempt to end run the California Constitution which requires a two-thirds vote for
special taxes. Proposition K purports to require a simple majority vote to pass. But make no mistake about it,
Proposition J and Proposition K together comprise a special sales tax to be used for specified (but no other)
purposes. They all but tell you that in Proposition K! Don’t let City Hall get away with financial
misrepresentation or San Franciscans will continue to be bombarded by requests for tax measures and related
set-asides, clothed in sheep’s clothing of two ’’innocent and separate” majority vote measures which should
together require a two-thirds vote. Please Vote No on Propositions J and K.

Coalition For San Francisco Neighborhoods

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this argument: CSFN.

Paid Argument AGAINST Proposition K

No on K — It's Contrary to Common Sense!

Have you ever seen politicians foster a tax increase, which results in DECREASED revenue? Well, get ready
for Prop K - which increases San Franciscans sales tax to 9.25% (about the highest in California), yet
predictably will cause lower total sales tax income because buying of taxed goods will decline!

You needn’t take our word for it.

City Hall’s own expert Chief Economist concluded that sales tax intake will go up $150,000 but fewer taxpayer
purchases will cause a slump of $15,000,000-$155,000,000 in collections. More taxes means less buying that's
simple logic, ignored by 8 Supervisors who want us to fall for it.

Further, he declares the tax will cause "the loss between 430-80 private sector jobs, but a gain of
approximately 580 jobs in the public sector".

No on K is simple logic, because sales taxes are regressive soaking poor people disproportionately.

VOTE NO ON K!

San Francisco Taxpayers Association

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this argument: San Francisco Taxpayers Association.

The two contributors to the true source recipient committee: Yes on F - 2014, Save Golden Gate Park- Yes on H - No on

I.

Paid Argument AGAINST Proposition K

Vote NO on Proposition K.

Proposition K is a companion piece with Proposition J. It is a cynical maneuver by Supervisors to avoid the 2/3
approval required by Proposition 13.

The Controller’s Statement says Proposition J will set aside $151,600,000 for the homeless and transportation.
Proposition K will generate $155,100,000 for the General Fund that, if lawfully earmarked for Proposition J,
would require a 2/3 vote to pass rather than a simple majority.

San Francisco Republican Party
Jason P. Clark, Chairman

Chantal Anderson, Christopher L. Bowman, Charles Cagnon, Howard Epstein, Stephanie Jeong, Ken Loo,

Lisa Remmer, Richard Worner

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this argument: San Francisco Republican Party.

The sole contributor to the true source recipient committee: Charles Moore, Stephanie Jeong.

Paid Argument AGAINST Proposition K

City Hall should address critical issues in existing budget... not dump problems on taxpayers.

We're in the middle of an affordability crisis, and yet City Hall continues to bungle our budget priorities.

Public taxpayers have contributed to a record $9.6 billion budget - yet conditions are objectively worse than
they’ve ever been.

Homelessness and displacement are at a record high and our streets are filthy - yet this ballot, chock-full of
set-asides and taxes, is proof that City Hall has given up on identifying progressive revenue sources or doing
the hard work of balancing budget priorities.

And this is in boom times - what will it be like during an economic downturn?

Our job as city officials is to do the work of managing the city budget responsibly - not punting the most
serious problems to the voters to solve or balancing our budget on the backs of the poorest and most vulnerable
in our city. City Hall has continually killed progressive revenue measures and brushed aside Budget Analyst
recommendations to balance our budget, holding key budget priorities hostage instead.

The sponsors of this measure are telling voters: either pass one of the highest sales taxes in California, or we
won't address the issues you care about the most.

Vote NO on Prop K. Time for real solutions, not more regressive taxes.

Supervisor Aaron Peskin

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this argument: Aaron Peskin.

Arguments are the opinions of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency. Arguments are
published as submitted. Spelling and grammatical errors have not been corrected.

HideLegal Text

Ordinance amending the Business and Tax Regulations Code to impose a transactions (sales) and use tax at the
rate of three-quarters of one percent (0.75%) for a period of 25 years, to be administered by the State Board of
Equalization in accordance with Parts 1.6 and 1.7 of Division 2 of the California Revenue and Taxation Code; and
increasing the City’s appropriations limit by the amount of the tax increase for four years from November 8,2016;
and directing submission of the tax for voter approval at the November 8,2016 general municipal election.

NOTE:

Unchanged Code text and uncodified text are in plain font.

Additions to Codes are in single-underline italics Times New Roman font.

Be it ordained by the People of the City and County of San Francisco:

Section 1. The Board of Supervisors hereby submits the following ordinance to the voters of the City and County of
San Francisco, at the general municipal election to be held on November 8, 2016.

Section 2. The Business and Tax Regulations Code is hereby amended by adding Article 12-E, consisting of Sections
1220 through 1234, to read as follows:

SEC. 1220. TITLE.

This Article 12-E shall be known as the San Francisco Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance.

The City and County of San Francisco hereinafter shall be called “City and County.” This Article shall be applicable
in the incorporated and unincorporated territory of the City and County.

SEC. 1221. OPERATIVE DATE.

“ Operative Date ” means the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing more than 110 days after the effective
date of this Article 12-E.

SEC. 1222. PURPOSE.

This Article 12-E is adopted to achieve the following, among other purposes, and directs that its provisions be
interpreted in order to accomplish those purposes:

(a)	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with
Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code and Section 7285 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 which authorize
the City and County to adopt this Article which shall be operative if a majority of the electors voting on the measure vote
to approve the imposition of the tax at an election called for that purpose.

(b)	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates provisions identical to those of the Sales
and Use Tax Law of the State of California inso far as those provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and
limitations contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

(c)	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax and provides a measure therefor that can
be administered and collected by the State Board of Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to,
and requires the least possible deviation from, the existing statutory and administrative procedures followed by the State
Board of Equalization in administering and collecting the California State Sales and Use Taxes.

(d)	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be administered in a manner that will be, to the
greatest degree possible, consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code,
minimize the cost o f collecting the transactions and use taxes, and at the same time, minimize the burden of recordkeeping
upon persons subject to taxation under the provisions of this Article.

SEC. 1223. CONTRACT WITH STATE.

Prior to the operative date, the City and County shall contract with the State Board of Equalization to perform all
functions incident to the administration and operation of this Article 12-E; provided, that if the City and County shall not
have contracted with the State Board of Equalization prior to the operative date. it shall nevertheless so contract and in
such a case the operative date shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter following the execution of such a contract.
SEC. 1224. TRANSACTIONS TAX RATE.

For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in the
incorporated and unincorporated territory of the City and County at the rate of 0.75% of the gross receipts of any retailer
from the sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail in said territory on and after the operative date of this
ordinance.

SEC. 1225. PLACE OF SALE.

For the purposes of this Article 12-E, all retail sales are consummated at the place of business of the retailer unless
the tangible personal property sold is delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common

carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts from, such sales shall include delivery charges, when
such charges are subject to the state sales and use tax. regardless of the place to which delivery is made. In the event a
retailer has no permanent place of business in the State or has more than one place o f business, the place or places at
which the retail sales are consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by
the State Board of Equalization.

SEC. 1226. USE TAX RATE.

An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use, or other consumption in the City and County of tangible personal
property purchased from any retailer on and after the operative date of this Article 12-E for storage, use, or other
consumption in said territory at the rate of 0.75% of the sales price of the property. The sales price shall include delivery
charges when such charges are subject to state sales or use tax regardless of the place to which delivery is made.

SEC. 1227. ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW.

Except as otherwise provided in this Article 12-E and except insofar as they are inconsistent with the provisions of
Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001)
of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a part o f this Article as though fully set
forth herein.

SEC. 1228. LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF STATE LAW AND COLLECTION OF USE TAXES.

In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code pursuant to Section 1227:

(a)	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the name of this City and County
shall be substituted therefor. However, the substitution shall not be made when:

(1)	The word “ State” is used as a part of the title of the State Controller, State Treasurer, Victim Compensation
& Government Claims Board, State Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or the Constitution of the State of California;

(2)	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against this City and County or any
agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than hy or against the State Board of Equalization, in performing the functions
incident to the administration or operation of this Article 12-E.

(3)	In those sections, including, hut not necessarily limited to sections referring to the exterior boundaries of the
State of California, where the result of the substitution would he to:

(A)	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use, or other consumption of
tangible personal property which would not otherwise he exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use, or other
consumption remain subject to tax by the State under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, or

(B)	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use, or other consumption of tangible personal
property which would not be sub ject to tax by the state under the said provision of that code.

(4)	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711, 6715, 6737, 6797 or 6828 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code.

(b)	The word “City and County” shall be substituted for the word “ State” in the phrase “retailer engaged in business
in this State ” in Section 6203 and in the definition of that phrase in Section 6203.

SEC. 1229. PERMIT NOT REQUIRED.

If a seller's permit has been issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional
transactor’s permit shall not be required by this Article 12-E.

SEC. 1230. EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS.

(a) There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the use tax the amount of any sales tax or
use tax imposed by the State of California or by any city, city and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns
Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the amount of any state-administered transactions or use tax.

(b Where are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax the gross receipts from:

(1)	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum products, to operators of aircraft to be used
or consumed principally outside the City and County in which the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of
such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property under the authority of the laws of this State, the United States, or
any foreign government.

(2)	Sales of property to be used outside the City and County which is shipped to a point outside the City and
County, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by the retailer or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer
to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at such point. For the purposes of this subsection (b)(2), delivery to a point
outside the City and County shall be satisfied:

(A)	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1
(commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of
the Public Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the
Vehicle Code by registration to an out-of-Citv and County address and by a declaration under penalty of perjury, signed
by the buyer, stating that such address is, in fact, his or her principal place of residence; and

(B)	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of business out-of-City and County and
declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, that the vehicle will be operated from that address.

(3)	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to furnish the property for a fixed price
pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date o f this Article 12-E.

(4)	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such property, for any period of time for
which the lessor is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of this
Article 12-E.

(5)	For the purposes of subsections (b)(3) and (b)(4) of this Section 1230, the sale or lease of tangible personal
property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to
the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right
is exercised.

(c)	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this Article 12-E the storage, use, or other consumption in this
City and County of tangible personal property:

(1)	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a transactions tax under any state-
administered transactions and use tax ordinance.

(2)	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of aircraft and used or consumed by such
operators directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property for hire or
compensation under a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this State. the United
States, or any foreign government. This exemption is in addition to the exemptions provided in Sections 6366 and 6366.1
of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of California.

(3)	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into
prior to the operative date o f this Article 12-E.

(4)	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the tangible personal property arises under a
lease which is a continuing purchase of such property for any period of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the
property for an amount fixed by a lease prior to the operative date of this Article 12-E.

(5)	For the purposes of subsections (c)(3) and (c)(4) of this Section 1230, storage, use, or other consumption, or
possession of, or exercise of any right or power over, tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated
pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional
right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

(6)	Except as provided in subsection (7) of this Section 1230, a retailer engaged in business in the City and
County shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible personal property, unless the retailer ships
or delivers the property into the City and County or participates within the City and County in making the sale of the
property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving the order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of business
of the retailer in the City and County or through any representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in
the City and County under the authority of the retailer.

(7)	“A retailer engaged in business in the City and County” shall also include any retailer of any of the
following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the
Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels
registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to
collect use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the City and
County.

(d)	Any person sub ject to use tax under this Article 12-E may credit against that tax any transactions tax or
reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a City and County imposing, or retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant
to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code with respect to the sale to the person of the property the
storage, use, or other consumption of which is subject to the use tax.

SEC. 1231. AMENDMENTS.

All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this Article 12-E to Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, shall automatically become a part of this Article, provided however, that no such amendment shall operate so as to
affect the rate of tax imposed by this Article.

SEC. 1232. ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN.

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit, action, or proceeding in
any court against the State or the City and County, or against any officer of the State or the City and County, to prevent or
enjoin the collection under this Article 12-E, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or
any amount of tax required to be collected.

SEC. 1233. SEVERABILITY.

If any provision of this Article 12-E or the application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the
remainder of the Article and the application of such provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected
thereby.

SEC. 1234. TERMINATION DATE.

The authority to levy the tax imposed by this Article 12-E shall expire 25 years after the operative date.

Section 3. Appropriations Limit Increase. Pursuant to California Constitution Article XIII B and applicable laws, for
four years from November 8, 2016, the appropriations limit for the City shall be increased by the aggregate sum collected
by the levy of the San Francisco County Transactions and Use Tax (Business and Tax Regulations Code, Article 12-E)
imposed by this ordinance.

Section 4. Pursuant to Article XIII C of the Constitution of the State of California and Section 7285 of the California
Revenue and Taxation Code, this ordinance shall be submitted to the qualified electors of the City and County of San
Francisco at the November 8, 2016, general municipal election.

Section 5. Effective Date. The ordinance shall be effective at the close of the polls of the November 8, 2016, general
municipal election.

Section 6. Letter Designation. Notwithstanding Municipal Elections Code Section 505, the Director of Elections shall
assign successive letter designations to the Charter Amendment bearing Board of Supervisors’ File No. 160581 and this
ordinance. The Director of Elections shall determine the letter designation for the Charter Amendment bearing Board of
Supervisors’ File No. 160581 by following the procedures set forth in Municipal Elections Code Section 505, and shall
designate the next letter in the alphabet for this ordinance.

http://voterguide.sfelections.org/en/general-sales-tax