Yreka, California, Sales and Transaction
Tax Increase, Measure C (November

2016)

| Text of measure

Ballot question

The following question appeared on the ballot:^

// Sales Tax to Generally Fund Law Enforcement, Road Maintenance and
Other Essential City Services

To pay for essential City services such as: improving law enforcement
response to violent crimes, burglaries and property offenses; repairing
potholes and streets; and maintaining the Yreka’s longterm financial
stability, shall Ordinance #843 be adopted to impose a V* percent
transaction and use (sales) tax on an ongoing basis, providing about
$950,000 annually, with audits and all funds staying local?^

Impartial analysis

The following impartial analysis of the measure was prepared by the office of the

Siskiyou County Counsel:

// Measure C, if approved by a majority of voters, would enact an ordinance

establishing a one-half of one percent (0.50%) transactions and use tax. This kind of
tax is commonly called a “sales” tax. The proposed tax would add a halfcent to an
item that costs $1, or 500 to the price of an item that costs $100.

The money from this tax would be deposited into the City’s general fund and could
be used for any general City purpose such as restoring essential City services cut
since the 2008 recession, including keeping Yreka’s streets from further
deteriorating; and for police patrols, firefighter and paramedic services. Funds for
road maintenance have been decreasing, resulting in deferred road maintenance.

City staff reports that the cost of regular periodic maintenance of a road is between
$.25 to $.45 per square foot, but when the road deteriorates due to deferred
maintenance, full reconstruction presently costs approximately $11.00 per square
foot.

The tax revenues will be subject to the annual audit performed by an independent
auditor, which is reported in the City Annual Financial Report. The tax would be
paid in addition to existing sales taxes. It would be collected at the same time and in
the same manner as existing sales taxes and collection of the tax would be
administered by the State Board of Equalization. It would only apply to the

purchase or rental of items that are subject to existing sales taxes. For instance,
purchases of prescription drugs and food purchased as groceries would not be taxed.
The tax imposed by this measure would only go to the City and may not be taken by
the State or any other governmental entity. City staff estimates that nonresidents
pay more than one-half of all the sales taxes collected in Yreka. If adopted, this tax
would continue until revoked by the electors at another election called for that
purpose.

A ”Yes” vote is a vote in favor of the tax, which would increase sales taxes in the
City from 7.25% to 7.75% and increase Yreka’s share of sales taxes collected from
l%to 1.50%.

A “No” vote is a vote against the tax.

Measure C would be approved if it receives a simple majority of “Yes” votes, pi
—Siskiyou County Counsel^