From Voter's Edge:

City of Gridley

Measure M3 Parcel Tax - 2/3 Approval
Required

Election Results

Failed

1,068 votes yes (52.15%)

980 votes no (47.85%)

•	100%	of precincts reporting (2/2).

•	2,048	ballots counted.

Shall an existing special property tax to fund standby costs of providing emergency room
services at the Orchard Hospital, in the amount of $70 per residential equivalent unit per year for
an additional ten years (vacant parcels and parcels without residential units shall not be subject to
the tax) to raise approximately $330,000.00 per year, as enacted by Gridley Resolution 2016-R-
020, and a corresponding increase in the City's spending limit, be approved?

What is this proposal?

Here is some helpful information about this ballot measure from trusted sources.

Measure Details — Official information about this measure

Impartial analysis / Proposal

This proposition seeks voter approval for the continued imposition of a special property tax upon
residential properties exclusively. If approved by the voters, the tax revenues would be used

exclusively to pay for stand-by costs of providing emergency room services at Orchard Hospital
in Gridley, a critical access hospital. The proposed tax, in the amount of $70.00 per residential
equivalent unit would expire after ten (10) years.

The Gridley City Council has placed this measure on the ballot due to concerns that absent
supplemental funding, the hospital might be forced to close and that such closure would
constitute a detriment to the health, welfare and safety of the citizenry.

A two-thirds vote of the qualified electors is required to continue the imposition of the proposed
special tax.

s/Anthony E. Galyean City Attorney for the City of Gridley

—	City Attorney for the City of Gridley
Arguments FOR

NO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF OR AGAINST MEASURE M-3 WAS FILED

—	Butte County Clerk-Recorder
Arguments AGAINST

NO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF OR AGAINST MEASURE M-3 WAS FILED

Butte County Clerk-Recorder