CSA #17-1 KENT WOODLANDS

MEASURE N

MEASURE N: Shall a special tax to purchase and install License Plate Readers (LPR) that record the
license plates of vehicles traveling through the Kent Woodlands neighborhood so as to deter criminal
activities, such as burglary, be levied in the amount of $100.00 for the 2016-2017 fiscal year and then
in the amount of $11.00 annually each fiscal year thereafter for maintenance of the LPR upon living
units located within CSA 17 (Kent Woodlands area)?

YES	NO

COUNTY COUNSEL'S IMPARTIAL
ANALYSIS OF MEASURE N

COUNTY SERVICE AREA 17-1
(KENT WOODLANDS)

SPECIAL TAX

This measure has been placed on the ballot by the Marin County Board of Supervisors to authorize a
special tax upon living units in Community Service Area 17-1 (Kent Woodlands) for the purchase,
installation and maintenance of license plate readers to combat and deter criminal activities.

If this measure is approved by a two-thirds vote. County Service Area 17-1 will be authorized to
impose a parcel tax upon each living unit in an amount not to exceed $100.00 in fiscal year
2016—2017 and in an amount not to exceed $11.00 each fiscal year thereafter for maintenance. This
parcel tax shall remain in effect until repealed by the Board of Supervisors, or by the registered voters
upon whose property the special tax is imposed.
s/STEVEN M. WOODSIDE
County Counsel

By s/Sheila Lichtblau, Deputy County Counsel

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE

N

VOTE YES ON LPRs — In late 2015, Kent Woodlands experienced a series of crimes — home break-ins,
attempted break-ins, car break-ins and car theft — which was of great concern to the neighborhood.

An Ad Hoc Security Committee was formed; it recommended that License Plate Reader cameras
(LPRs) be purchased and installed at the entrance to Kent Woodlands and advised homeowners to
install home security systems on their properties.

Several Marin communities (including Tiburon, Belvedere, and Bel Marin Keys) report good results
with LPRs. They deter some crime and help law enforcement solve certain crimes. Obviously the
cameras alone will not eliminate crime completely, but they will provide a vital tool for our sheriff
patrols to use in protecting our neighborhood.

The special tax to fund the LPRs will cost each household $100 during year one only (fiscal
2016-2017) to fund the purchase and installation of the cameras and related equipment. Thereafter,
the annual cost will be only $11.00 per household to fund ongoing maintenance and replacement
costs.

I very strongly urge a "YES" vote.
s/BARRY EVERGETTIS

President, representing Kent Woodlands Property Owners Association

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE
N WAS SUBMITTED.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE N

RESOLUTION NO. 2016-83
RESOLUTION OF THE MARIN COUNTY BOARD OF SUPERVISORS
CALLING FOR AN ELECTION TO CREATE A SPECIAL TAX UPON LIVING UNITS LOCATED
WITHIN CSA 17 (KENT WOODLANDS) FOR THE PURPOSE OF RAISING FUNDS TO BE USED
TO INSTALL AND MAINTAIN LICENSE PLATE READERS (LPR) THAT RECORD LICENSE

PLATES FOR SECURITY PURPOSES
WHEREAS, as set forth in Resolution No. 85-196, some residents of CSA 17 who live in the area
described in Exhibit A to that resolution requested that said area be empowered to provide extended
police services; and

WHEREAS, as set forth in Resolution No. 85-196, former Section 5210.31 of the California
Government Code authorized the extension of such services in certain circumstances; and
WHEREAS, as set forth in Resolution No. 85-196, this Board found that the Marin County Local
Agency Formation Commission did not condition approval of the creation of CSA 17; and
WHEREAS, Government Code Section 25210.3 provides that as a Community Service Area in
existence before January 1, 2009, it may remain in existence and carry on as if formed under
Government Code Section 25217, et seq.

WHEREAS, the Board of Supervisors, as the governing body of County Service Area ("CSA") 17, has
been requested by the local home owners association for Kent Woodlands, the KWPOA, to take the
action herein so that KWPOA may purchase, install, and maintain License Plate Readers (LPR) that
record the license plates of vehicles traveling through the Kent Woodlands neighborhood so as to
deter criminal activities, such as burglary, and to fund said additional police services through
imposition of a special tax; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to California Government Code §§ 25215.2 and 50075, et seq., and in
compliance with California Constitution Article XIII, the Board of Supervisors is hereby authorized to
adopt this Resolution to increase (subject to voter approval) the special tax upon all living units
located within the area set forth in Exhibit A to Resolution No. 85-196; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Supervisors proposes to create a special tax upon each living unit in the
amount not to exceed $100.00 in fiscal year 2016 - 2017 to purchase and install LPR and in the
amount not to exceed $11.00 each fiscal year thereafter to maintain the LPR and that said special tax
shall remaining in effect until repealed by the Board of Supervisors or the registered voters upon
whose property the special tax is imposed; and

WHEREAS, any proceeds received from the measure are deemed taxes of the receiving agency and,
where appropriate, subject to Article XIIIB of the California Constitution (Gann limit).

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED as follows:

1.	The new special tax shall be collected annually by the Marin County Tax Collector in the same
manner and subject to the same penalties as County property taxes are collected from every
person who owns a living unit within this Area as reflected upon the rolls of the County
Assessor. The County shall be entitled to deduct its reasonable costs incurred in collecting the
special tax before such tax is remitted to CSA 17.

2.	This Board shall determine annually, based upon a budget recommended to it, the tax rate up
to the maximum allowed.

3.	The special tax established by this Resolution shall be submitted to the registered voters
within CSA 17 upon whose property the tax would be imposed at an election to be
consolidated with the election to be conducted on November 8, 2016. The special tax shall not
become effective unless approved by two-thirds of the registered voters within the area set
forth in Exhibit A to Resolution No. 85-196 pertaining to CSA 17. The question submitted to
the voters shall read substantially as follows:

4.	Shall a special tax to purchase and install License Plate Readers (LPR) that record
the license plates of vehicles traveling through the Kent Woodlands neighborhood so
as to deter criminal activities, such as burglary, be levied in the amount of $100.00
for the 2016-2017 fiscal year and then in the amount of $11.00 annually each fiscal

year thereafter for maintenance of the LPR upon living units located within CSA 17
(Kent Woodlands area)?

5.	The Board of Supervisors hereby orders that this election shall be consolidated with any other
election scheduled on Tuesday, November 8, 2016.

6.	Pursuant to the provisions of Elections Code Section 1002, the Marin County Board of
Supervisors authorizes and directs the Marin County Registrar of Voters to render all services
necessary for the conduct of the election. The costs of the election shall be borne by CSA 17.

7.	The increase in the special tax shall be deemed in effect beginning with the 2016-2017 fiscal
year upon certification of the election results evidencing approval by at least two-thirds of the
registered voters voting thereon.

8.	Pursuant to California Government Code Section 50077.5 and the California Code of Civil
Procedure Section 860, any judicial action or proceeding to attack, review, set aside, or annul
this special tax, if approved by the voters, shall be commenced within 60 days of the effective
date of this Resolution.

PASSED AND ADOPTED at a regular meeting of the Board of Supervisors of the County of Marin held
on this 2nd day of August 2016, by the following vote:

AYES: SUPERVISORS Judy Arnold, Katie Rice, Damon Connolly, Kathrin Sears, Steve Kinsey

NOES: NONE

ABSENT: NONE

s/STEVE KINSEY

President, Board of Supervisors

ATTEST:

s/MATTHEW HYMEL
Clerk