MEASURE M
CITY OF PITTSBURG

To provide funding that stays in Pittsburg and cannot
be seized by the State, to be used for Public Safety,
gang prevention, job creation programs for local
residents, Senior Center operations, repair roads,
operate youth programs, and maintain other City
services, shall the City of Pittsburg extend its current
half-cent sales tax through fiscal year 2034-2035,
providing $3.6-$3.8 million annually, then the increase
be terminated, altogether, with citizens’ oversight,
mandatory audits and consistent community
reporting?

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF
MEASURE M

In 2012, City of Pittsburg voters approved a
temporary transactions and use tax of one-half of
one percent (0.5%) for a period of five years. In
October 2017, that tax amount is scheduled to
become one-quarter of one percent (0.25%) for a
period of five years, after which the tax will expire.

The City of Pittsburg City Council has placed
Measure M on the ballot, asking voters to approve
continuing the current temporary transactions and
use tax amount of one-half of one percent (0.5%)
through fiscal year 2034-2035, after which the tax
will automatically expire.

The tax results in one-half of one cent per dollar spent
in Pittsburg going to the City, on the conditions listed
below.

The Measure maintains the Citizens’ Oversight
Committee consisting of at least three members of the
public. The City Council appoints Committee
members, who review the receipt and expenditures of
the tax revenues. The Committee's reports and
recommendations are public record, provided to the
City Council at a public meeting.

The Measure is a “general tax,” not a “special tax.”
The City may use the funds for a variety of purposes,
including public safety, gang and domestic violence
prevention, job creation programs for residents,
Senior Center operations, road repairs, and operation
of youth programs.

The tax is a combination of a “sales and use tax” and
“transactions and use tax.” With some exceptions,
both are levied on the sale or use of tangible personal
property sold at retail and are generally known as a
“sales tax.” Retailers collect the tax at the time of sale

and remit the funds to the State Board of Equalization,
which administers the tax.

Currently, the total existing tax on retail sales in
Pittsburg is 9.00% of the purchase price. The City
receives a total of 1.5% of the revenue generated by
this tax, with the remainder going to the State (6.25%),
Contra Costa

County (.25%), Contra Costa Transportation Authority
(0.5%), and BART (0.5%). Proceeds of the temporary
tax extension proposed in Measure M would go only
to the City and not to the State, County,
Transportation Authority, or BART.

If Measure M is approved, the current general tax
would continue at its present level. Pittsburg’s portion
of sales tax proceeds would remain at 1.5% through
fiscal year 2034-2035. If Measure M is not approved,
Pittsburg’s portion of sales tax proceeds will drop to
1.25% in October 2017, and to 1.00% in October
2022.

A “Yes” vote will approve a temporary continuation of
the existing half-cent tax, with receipt and
expenditures overseen by the Citizens’ Oversight
Committee. A “No” vote will not extend the tax.
Measure M would be approved if it receives a simple
majority of “Yes” votes.

Dated: March 22, 2016

Ruthann G. Ziegler
Pittsburg City Attorney