Voter Information Guide

and
Sample Ballot

Presidential General Election
Tuesday, November 8,2016

Elections Office of the Registrar of Voters
777 E. Rialto Avenue, San Bernardino, CA 92415
www.SBCountyElections.com

Gula de informacion el votante
en espanol en el interior

Measure P

COMMERCIAL MARIJUANA ACTIVITY. Shall
San Bernardino Municipal Code Chapter 5.05
and Section 19.06.026, which prohibit the sale,
possession, cultivation, use, and/or distribution
of marijuana be replaced and repealed and
allow the City of San Bernardino to regulate
commercial marijuana activity?

YES ^ ^
NO ^ M

City of Rancho Cucamonga Measure

Measure Q

Shall four members of the City Council of the
City of Rancho Cucamonga be elected by
geographic districts with the Mayor elected at
large as described in Ordinance No. 887?

YES ^ ^

NO ^ ^

City of Adelanto Measures

Measure R

Commercial Marijuana Activity Excise Tax

Shall the Adelanto City Council be authorized
to impose excise taxes, with no termination
date, on each commercial marijuana activity
business licensed or operating within the City
of Adelanto in an amount of not more than five
percent of the gross revenue attributable to that
business’s revenue earned from within the City
of Adelanto, potentially generating millions of
dollars annually in additional tax revenue for
the City of Adelanto?

YES ^ ^
NO ^ ^

Measure S

Gross Revenue Business Tax Shall the
Adelanto City Council be authorized to impose
a tax, with no termination date, on each
business licensed or operating within the City
of Adelanto in the amount of not more than
0.05 percent of the gross revenue attributable
to that business’s revenue earned from within
the City of Adelanto, potentially generating
several thousands of dollars annually in
additional tax revenue for the City of Adelanto?

YES ^ ^
NO ^ M

City of Colton Measure

Measure T

Shall the City of Colton increase the Transient
Occupancy (Room) Tax rate from 10% to
12.5%, with the extra 2.5% rate increase
generating approximately $150,000 annually
that will specifically pay for the construction,
maintenance and rehabilitation of the City’s
athletic/recreational fields and related facilities,
until ended by voters, and to apply the Tax to
all rent charged by hotel operators, including
online travel and short term rental companies,
for transient occupancy of any hotel room?

YES ^ ^
NO ^ M

City of Upland Measure

Measure U

An Ordinance to Allow Medical Marijuana
Dispensaries in the City of Upland. Shall the
voters approve an ordinance to allow three
medical marijuana businesses in the
City of Upland?

	YES ^ ^
	NO ^ ^
Town of Apple Valley Measures	
Measure V	

Shall an ordinance be adopted requiring voter
approval before the Town of Apple Valley can
issue public debt of more than $10,000,000 to
pay for acquiring, improving, or financing a
project, such as the acquisition of the Town’s
water system, which is currently owned by a
private company, when the debt is to be repaid
by fees collected by the Town and not from the
Town’s taxpayer revenues?

YES ^ ^
NO ^ ^

0525E

MEASURE T
CITY OF COLTON

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE T

This Impartial Analysis of Measure T has been prepared by the City Attorney
pursuant to Section 9280 of the California Elections Code.

The City of Colton currently imposes a transient occupancy tax ("TOT"), also
generally known as a "hotel" tax, at the rate often percent (10%) of rent paid by guests
to occupy a room or space in a hotel or similar lodging (referred to herein as a "hotel").
This TOT is imposed upon occupancy of a room or hotel space within the City, for
dwelling, lodging, or sleeping purposes, for a period of thirty (30) consecutive days or
less. The TOT currently provides approximately $600,000 annually to the General Fund
to pay for general City services and programs.

Measure "T" was placed on the November, 2016 ballot by the City Council. It would
amend and update the City's Municipal Code as follows:

•	Increases the rate of TOT from ten percent (10%) to twelve and one-half
percent (12.5%) of the rent paid by guests to occupy a room or space in a hotel.
It is anticipated that this rate increase will generate an additional $150,000 in
new revenues;

•	Expressly provides that the 2.5% TOT rate increase is a "special tax", and
therefore those revenues shall be spent only for a specific purpose: the
construction, maintenance and/or rehabilitation of athletic/recreational fields
and facilities within the City of Colton. The current basic 10% TOT rate will
remain a "general tax" and those revenues will continue to be spent on general
City services and programs.

•	Clarifies that if a guest occupies a hotel for longer than 30 consecutive days,
the TOT will apply only to the first 30 days of hotel occupancy;

•	Includes online travel companies (e.g., Expedia, Travelocity), online shortterm
rental companies (e.g., AirBnB) and other similar third parties as hotel
"operators" for the purpose of collecting the City's TOT from guests who
purchase a hotel room or similar space via the Internet, or by similar electronic
means;

•	Clarifies that the taxable rent paid for a hotel room or space includes all rates
and fees commonly charged for hotel occupancy, such as room rates, service
charges, parking fees, block or group reservation charges, retail markup,
commissions, processing fees, cancellation charges, and online booking fees;

•	Addresses "block reservation" arrangements by providing that the period of
taxable occupancy is measured by the length of an individual guest's stay, not
the length of the "block reservation" or similar agreement entered into by the
guest's employer or agent; and

•	Includes certain clarifying amendments regarding exemptions from the TOT.

Measure "T" is a "special tax", the revenues from the increased TOT can only be
used for athletic/recreational fields and facilities within the City of Colton, as described
above. Therefore, pursuant to California Proposition 218, Measure "T" must be
approved by a two-thirds (2/3) supermajority of the voters.

PR-9020-IA-1

A "Yes" vote on Measure "T" will authorize the 2.5% TOT rate increase as a special

tax.

A "No" vote on Measure "T" will not authorize the 2.5% TOT rate increase as a
special tax.

s/ CARLOS CAMPOS, City Attorney

PR-9020-IA-2

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE T

This Argument in Favor of Measure T was submitted pursuant to Section
9282 of the California Elections Code. It is the opinion of the author(s), and
has been printed exactly as submitted.

Measure T, the "Colton Youth Sports Initiative" is a common sense solution to one of
Colton's top priorities; funding the building, improvement and maintenance of much
needed and long awaited Colton Youth Sports facilities. As most residents in Colton
know, the city has struggled for years to provide quality facilities for our youth. Colton
is one of the few cities in California with NO CITY OWNED SOCCER or FOOTBALL
FIELDS. Our youth soccer and football leagues are completely dependent on the
School District for use of their sports fields. City and District sports facilities are in need
of renovation and maintenance from constant use. The passage of Measure T will help
resolve these serious issues.

Measure T increases the Transient Occupancy Tax (TOT) which visitors pay as part of
their hotel/motel room rate to 12.5%. Our TOT rate has not been raised since 1975,
bringing Colton in line with what other cities are currently receiving. Revenue raised,
estimated at $150,000 annually, will be used strictly for Youth Sports Facilities
expenditures.

Important facts about Measure T, the "Colton Youth Sports Initiative":

*	ALL revenue generated will be in a separate fund and used ONLY for building,
improving and maintaining youth sports facilities.

*	NO direct financial impact on Colton residents since revenues will be generated
from out of town visitors.

*	Will benefit Colton hotels/motels and other businesses as youth leagues will host
regional tournaments.

*	City of Colton will benefit from additional sales tax revenues.

*	Revenue generated will help Colton obtain grant funding for development and
construction of future sports facilities.

*	Measure T has UNANIMOUS SUPPORT from the Mayor and Colton City Council.

Please join parents, community leaders, businesses and youth sports advocates in
voting YES on Measure T.

si Richard DeLaRosa, Mayor, City of Colton
s/ Gary Grossich, Business Owner
s/ Joe G. Perez, Citizen
si Jimmy Ramirez, Citizen

PR-9020-AF-1

FULL TEXT FOR MEASURE T

ORDINANCE NO. 0-14-16

AN ORDINANCE OF THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF COLTON AMENDING
THE CITY'S TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY (ROOM) TAX CODE BY
INCREASING THE RATE FROM 10% TO 12.5%, DEDICATING THE
ADDITIONAL 2.5% OF THE TAX RATE ABOVE 10% FOR SPECIFIC
PURPOSES, AND ADDRESSING ONLINE TRAVEL COMPANY AND
OTHER THIRD PARTY BOOKINGS, AND MAKING VARIOUS
CONFORMING CHANGES.

(NOTE:	additions	are	highlighted	in	bold	italics	and	deletions	are highlighted in

strikeout)

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF COLTON, CALIFORNIA DO HEREBY ORDAIN
AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. Section 3.24.020 of Chapter 3.24 of Title 3 of the Colton Municipal
Code is hereby amended to read as follows:

"3.24.020. Definitions.

Except where the context otherwise requires, the definitions given in this section
govern the construction of this chapter.

"Block Reservation" means an arrangement whereby a person reserves,
whether on an exclusive or non-exclusive basis, a room or block/group of rooms
for a defined period of time under a written or oral agreement with an operator,
intending for such room(s) to be occupied by that person's employees or agents
on an intermittent, periodic or "as needed" basis during that defined period of
time.

"Hotel" means any structure, or any portion of any structure, which is occupied or
intended or designed for occupancy by transients for dwelling, lodging or sleeping
purposes, and includes any hotel, inn, tourist home or house, motel, studio hotel,
bachelor hotel, lodging house, rooming house, apartment house, dormitory, public or
private club, mobile home or house trailer at a fixed location, or other similar structure
or portion thereof.

"Occupancy" means the use or possession, or the right to use, or possession of any
room or rooms or portion thereof (whether or not the person entitled to the use or
possession actually uses or possesses such room or rooms or portion thereof),
in any hotel for dwelling, lodging or sleeping purposes. The use or possession or right
to use or possess any room or any suite of connecting rooms as office space,
banquet or private dining rooms, or exhibits, sample or display space shall not be
considered "occupancy" within the meaning of this definition unless the person
exercising occupancy uses or possesses, or has the right to use or possess all
or any portion of such room or suite of rooms for dwelling, lodging or sleeping
purposes.

"Online Short Term Rental Company" shall mean any person, whether
operating for profit or not for profit, which facilitates the connection between
transients aiming to purchase occupancy in any hotel via the Internet, or by
similar electronic means.

"Online Travel Company" shall mean any person, whether operating for profit
or not for profit, which enables transients to purchase occupancy in a hotel via
the Internet, or by similar electronic means.

"Operator" means the person who is proprietor of the hotel or any other person
who has the right to rent rooms within the hotel to customers or to facilitate the
rental of rooms via an online short term rental company, whether in the capacity of
owner, lessee, sublessee, mortgagee in possession, licensee, seller, reseller, or any
other capacity. Where the operator performs his functions through a managing agent
or booking agent of any type or character, other than an employee (including, but not
limited to, an online travel company or online short term rental company), the
managing agent or booking agent shall also be deemed an operator for the purposes
of this chapter and shall have the same duties and liabilities as his principal. Full
Gcompliance with the provisions of this chapter by either the principal or the managing
agent or booking agent shall, however, be considered to be compliance by both.

"Person" means any individual, firm, partnership, joint venture, association, social
club, fraternal organization, joint stock company, corporation, estate, trust, business
trust, receiver, trustee, syndicate, or any other group or combination acting as a unit.

"Rent" means the total consideration charged to the transient, (including but not
limited to, room rates, service charges, parking fees, purchase price, advance
registration, block or group reservation charges, assessments, retail markup,
commission, processing fees, cancellation charges, attrition fees, or online
booking or broker fees), whether or not received, for the occupancy of space in a hotel
valued in money, whether to be received in money, goods, labor or otherwise, including
all receipts, cash, credits and property and services of any kind or nature, without any
deduction therefrom whatsoever. Nothing in this definition shall be construed to
mean that rent is charged directly or indirectly for occupancy in a hotel when a
room is provided to the transient as a compliment for the operator and where no
consideration is charged to or received from any other person. Further, bona fide
charges for food and beverages which are subject to tax under the California
Sales and Use Tax Law (Revenue and Taxation Code Sections 6001 et. sea.) shall
not be deemed rent subject to the tax imposed by this Part.

"Tax Administrator" means city manager or such other city employee/official, as
shall be designated by the City Councilmanager.

"Transient" means any person who exercises occupancy or is entitled to occupy by
reason of concession, permit, right of access, license or other agreement for a period of
thirty consecutive calendar days or less, counting portions of calendar days as full days.
The following rules shall apply to this definition:

A. Any such person so occupying space or entitled to occupy a room in a hotel
shall be deemed to be a transient until the period of (30) calendar days has
expired unless there is an agreement in writing between the operator and the
occupant providing for a longer period of occupancy. Any individual who
exercises or is entitled to occupancy for a period of thirty consecutive calendar
days or less shall be deemed to be a transient, regardless of whether the
reservation and payment or payment for occupancy is made directly by the
individual exercising or entitled to occupancy or another person or entity. The
intent is to tax the individual occupying or having the entitlement to occupy
the hotel room.

For purposes of this definition, the exercise of or entitlement to occupancy shall be

evidenced by any of the following:

1.	An individual's signature on a Hotel registration card or form, a Hotel
invoice or receipt or any other document associated with an individual's
Occupancy in a Hotel; and/or

2.	An individual's providing identification to Hotel staff as proof of
employment, membership or affiliation with a Person as defined in
subsection D. of this section as a condition of or in connection with
exercising Occupancy in a Hotel.

B.	In determining whether a person is a transient, uninterrupted periods of time
extending both prior and subsequent to the effective date of this Part may be
considered.

C.	In the event a person exercises or is entitled to occupancy for a
continuous and uninterrupted period of longer than 30 calendar days, he
or she shall be deemed a transient and subject to the tax for only the first
30 calendar days of occupancy and shall cease being a transient and the
tax shall not apply on the 31st calendar day of occupancy and following.
However, any break or interruption in occupancy shall start a new 30 day
period subject to the tax.

D.	In the case of a block reservation, a person's employee or agent shall be
deemed a transient if that employee or agent exercises or is entitled to
occupancy of a room for a period of 30 consecutive calendar days or less,
regardless of the duration of any block reservation agreement. By way
of example, if a corporation enters into a one-year block reservation
agreement with an operator and one of the corporation's employees
occupies a room for 30 calendar days, the employee shall be deemed a
transient whose occupancy is subject to the tax, notwithstanding the fact
that the block reservation agreement has a duration longer than 30
calendar days."

SECTION 2. Section 3.24.030 of Chapter 3.24 of Title 3 of the Colton Municipal
Code is hereby amended to read as follows:

"3.24.030 Imposition—Rate—Purposes of Tax.

A.	For the privilege of occupancy in any hotel, each transient is subject to and
shall pay a tax in the amount of 40 12.5 percent of the rent charged by the
operator. This tax constitutes a debt owed by the transient to the City which is
extinguished only by payment to the operator of the hotel at the same time the
rent is paid. If the rent is paid in installments, a proportionate share of the tax
shall be paid with each installment. The unpaid tax shall be due when the
transient ceases to occupy space in the hotel occupancy. If for any reason
the tax due is not paid to the operator of the hotel, the Tax Administrator may
require that such tax shall be paid directly to the Tax Administrator.

B.	The basic 10% rate of the tax is and shall remain a general tax, the
revenues from which shall be deposited into the City's general fund and
which may be used to pay for any valid general expenditures of the City
of Colton.

C.	The additional 2.5% of the tax rate is hereby declared to be a special tax,
the revenues from which shall be deposited into a special fund of the City
and which may only be expended for the following specific purposes: The
construction, maintenance and/or rehabilitation of athletic/recreational
fields and related facilities located within the City of Colton.

PR-9020-FT-3

SECTION 3. Section 3.24.040 of Chapter 3.24 of Title 3 of the Colton Municipal
Code is hereby amended to read as follows:

"3.24.040. Exemptions.

No tax shall be imposed upon:

A.	Any person as to whom, or any occupancy as to which, it is beyond the power
of the City to impose the tax herein provided;

B.	Any federal or State of California officer or employee when occupying a room
while on official government business. For purposes of this section, non-
employee students, supporters and volunteers of California public universities
and colleges shall not be deemed to be officers or employees of the State of
California.

C.	Any officer or employee of a foreign government who is exempt by reason of
express provision of federal law or international treaty.

D.	No exemption shall be granted except upon a claim therefor made at the time
rent is collected and under penalty of perjury upon a form prescribed by the
Tax Administrator. Any federal or State of California officer or employee
when on official government business claiming such an exemption shall
provide to the operator as conclusive evidence that his or her occupancy
is for the official business of his or her employer:

(1)	Travel orders from his or her government employer; or a
government warrant issued by his or her employer to pay for the
occupancy; or a government credit card issued by his or her
employer to pay for the occupancy; and

(2)	proof of his or her governmental employment as an employee or
officer as described in subsection (B), and proof, consistent with
these provisions, that his or her occupancy is for the official
business of his or her governmental employer.

It shall be the duty of an operator to keep and maintain for a period of
three (3) years written documentation in support of each exemption
granted under this Section."

SECTION 4. Effective Date. Pursuant to California Constitution Article XIIIC
§(2)(d) and California Elections Code §9217, if a two-thirds (2/3) supermajority of the
qualified voters voting in the election on Measure "T" vote in favor of the adoption of
such measure, this ordinance shall be deemed valid and binding and shall be considered
as adopted upon the date that the vote is declared by the City Council, and shall go into
effect ten (10) days after that date.

SECTION 5. Severability. If any section, sentence, clause or phrase of this
ordinance is for any reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional by a decision of any
court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining
provisions of this ordinance. The People of the City of Colton hereby declare that they
would have adopted this ordinance and each section, sentence, clause or phrase
thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or more section, subsections, sentences,
clauses or phrases be declared invalid or unconstitutional.

SECTION 6. Certification/Summary. Following the City Clerk's certification that
the citizens of Colton have approved this Ordinance, the Mayor shall sign this Ordinance
and the City Clerk shall cause the same to be entered in the book of original ordinances
of said City; and shall cause the same, or a summary thereof, to be published as required
by law.

Adopted by the People of the City of Colton on the 8th day of November, 2016.
Richard A. DeLaRosa, Mayor
ATTEST:

Carolina R. Padilla, City Clerk

APPROVED AS TO FORM:

Carlos Campos, City Attorney
Best Best & Krieger

PR-9020-FT-5