FULL TEXT FOR MEASURE S

Shall the Adelanto City Council be authorized to impose a tax, with no termination date,
on each business licensed or operating within the City of Adelanto in the amount of not
more than 0.05 percent of the gross revenue attributable to that business's revenue
earned from within the City of Adelanto, potentially generating several thousands of
dollars annually in additional tax revenue for the City of Adelanto?

AUG 2 5 2016

nv	DEPUTY

registrar of Voters

\ I hereby certify, the fo }ing

fE$®>

Office of the City bier''

PepZf

MG im

MEASURE

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY B<

City of Adelanto

Ballot Measure Authorizing Gross Revenue Business Tax

This measure authorizes the City Council for the City of Adelanto (“City”) to adopt a tax on all
businesses licensed or operating in the City proportional to the revenue earned by that business
within the City. The City Council would be authorized to impose a new tax of up to one-
twentieth of one percent (0.05%) of the gross revenue earned by each business in the City unless
otherwise exempt by law. This measure would authorize the City Council to adopt any
appropriate tax amount provided it does not exceed the 0.05% of each business’s gross revenue.
The tax will result in increased general fund revenues for the City over the current business tax
system from most business earning more than $200,000 in gross revenue per year, while
relieving the tax burden on most small businesses earning less than $200,000 in gross revenue
per year.

For example, a small business operating solely within the City of Adelanto earning $100,000 in
gross revenue could owe up to, but not more than, $50, which is less than the current flat tax of
$100 for most businesses. A business with total statewide revenues equal to $20 Million, with
$500,000 attributable to business activity within the City, could owe up to, but no more than,
$250, which would be $150 over the current flat tax of $100 for most businesses.

This measure would authorize the imposition of a new business tax in addition to other taxes and
fees. This measure is intended to allow the City Council to replace the existing flat business tax
structure that the City currently employs. The City Council would be authorized to impose this
tax in addition to other legitimate licensing fees imposed by the Adelanto Municipal Code.

All revenues received by the City from this tax must be deposited in the general fund to be used
locally for the benefit of the City.

A “Yes” vote is in favor of adopting this measure and this business tax. A “No” vote is against
adopting this measure and prevents imposition of this new business tax structure. If a majority
of voters vote “Yes,” then this measure will authorize the City Council for the City of Adelanto
to adopt resolutions and ordinances imposing the prescribed tax. This measure was placed on the
ballot by the City Council.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure______.

Dated:	I	<?



% ! hereby certify, the forcing
t-jA instrument to be a full, t and
Ap correct copy of the original on file.

Attest:

Office ef tte Csitv Glertr

RESOLUTION NO. 16-54

jJJVdSO

9WZS0

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
ADELANTO AMENDING RESOLUTION NO. 16-48 AND SUBMITTING
AN ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF THE CITY’S PROPOSITION TO
AUTHORIZE IMPOSITION OF A GROSS REVENUE BUSINESS TAX

WHEREAS, the City of Adelanto (“City”) is holding a General Municipal Election, to
be consolidated with the statewide election, on November 8, 2016 in accordance Adelanto
Municipal Code section 1.15.010.

WHEREAS, City Council Resolution No. 16-48 (“Resolution 16-48”) submits a measure
to voters at the November 8, 2016 authorizing the imposition of a gross revenue business tax on
businesses within the City.

WHEREAS, Elections Code section 9282 authorizes the City Council to file a written
argument in favor of the business tax.

WHEREAS, Resolution 16-48 reserved the City Council’s right to file an argument in
favor of the City’s gross revenue business tax measure.

NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF ADELANTO
RESOLVES AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1: The above recitals are true and correct and are incorporated herein.

SECTION 2: Pursuant to Elections Code section 13119(b), the City Council hereby
amends Resolution 16-48, Section 2, to read as follows:

Pursuant to Elections Code sections 10201 and 9222, the City Council hereby
submits the following proposition to the voters at the General Municipal Election on
November 8, 2016:

Measure________—Gross Revenue Business Tax

Shall the Adelanto City Council be authorized to impose a tax, with
no termination date, on each business licensed or operating within the City
of Adelanto in the amount of not more than 0.05 percent of the gross
revenue attributable to that business’s revenue earned from within the City
of Adelanto, potentially generating several thousands of dollars annually in
additional tax revenue for the City of Adelanto?

YES

NO

SECTION 3: Pursuant to Elections Code section 9282(b) and Resolution 16-48, the City
Council hereby submits the following argument in favor of the measure for a Gross Revenue
Business Tax:

Argument In Favor Of Measure_________

Gross Revenue Business Tax

Submitted by the City Council for the City of Adelanto

The City of Adelanto (“City”) is working to cure the City’s long running budget deficits
without adding additional tax burdens on its citizens by adopting a fairer and more equitable
business tax structure. Rather than imposing additional taxes on the general public, or
overburdening small businesses, the City seeks to adopt a tax on businesses proportional to
their size and the benefits which they receive from the City. Larger more profitable businesses
reaping greater financial rewards from the City will shoulder a larger proportional tax burden
whereas smaller businesses deserve relief from burdensome taxes.

The City faces severe budget deficits and needs to find additional sources of revenue to avoid
municipal bankruptcy. The proposed tax will help create a fair, efficient, and stable source of
tax revenue for the City without having to tax the general public directly. The revenue
generated by this tax will ensure stability of the City’s business environment and the
continuity of essential municipal services. The tax burden meanwhile will be borne by
businesses according only to their gross revenue and capacity to pay.

Finally, the proposed tax rate is minimal and amounts to no more than a multiplier of only
0.0005 on businesses’ gross revenues.

In its ongoing efforts to address the City’s budget deficits, the City Council unanimously
supports this new business revenue tax and respectfully requests that People of Adelanto vote
in favor of this measure.

This is not a tax on the People of Adelanto.

City Council of the City of Adelanto

Richard Kerr, Mayor	Jermaine	Wright	Sr.,	Mayor	Pro	Tern

Ed Camargo, Council Member	Charley	B.	Glasper,	Council	Member

John Woodard Jr., Council Member

Resolution No. 16-54
Page 3

SECTION 4:	Pursuant	to	Elections	Code section 9285, the City Council hereby

authorizes Richard Kerr, Mayor for the City of Adelanto, to submit a rebuttal argument to any
argument submitted against the measure for a Gross Revenue Business Tax.

SECTION 5: All arguments submitted pursuant to this Resolution shall be submitted to
the San Bernardino Elections Office of the Registrar of Voters in accordance with the Elections
Code and other applicable laws.

SECTION 6:	The	City Council determines that this Resolution does not have the

potential to have a physical effect on the enviromnent. Therefore, pursuant to the California
Environmental Quality Act (“CEQA”) and its implementing regulations, this activity is not

subject to CEQA. (Cal. Pub. Res. Code, § 21000 et seq.; 14 Cal. Code Regs., §§ 15060(c)(2),
15378(a).)

SECTION 7: If any section, subsection, or other provision of this Resolution is for any
reason held to be invalid, unconstitutional, illegal, or unenforceable by any court of competent
jurisdiction, or contravened by reason of any preemptive legislation, then such section or
provision shall be severed and shall be inoperative, and the remainder of this Resolution shall
remain in full force and effect.

PASSED, APPROVED, AND ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of Adelanto on
this 3rd day of August, 2016.

Richard Kerr, Mayor

Attest:

7

Approved as to Form

I,	Cindy M. Herrera, City Manager / City Clerk of the City of Adelanto, do hereby certify that
the foregoing Resolution No. 16-54 was duly adopted at a special meeting of the City Council of
the City of Adelanto held on the 3rd day of August, 2016, by the following votes:

AYES: Council Members Camargo, Glasper, and Mayor Kerr

NOES: None

ABSENT. Mayor Pro Tem Wright
ABSTAIN:	Council	Member	Woodard





/A/ //

Cindy M. Herrera, MMC, City Manager / City Clerk

Statement Against Adelanto Tax Measure

The Measure S Tax is deceptive and misleading. Supporters of Measure S insist that this is not a tax on
all Adelanto residents. But that is not true!

Increasing taxes on businesses in Adelanto will lead to higher costs for Adelanto families and residents.
The cost of groceries, gas, and goods will be higher for Adelanto residents than other High Desert
citizens. That is not right!

In addition to higher costs, this will be the only tax of its kind in the High Desert. That could force local
businesses to leave Adelanto for other cities, or worse, for other states. If businesses leave Adelanto,
jobs will leave Adelanto. The unemployment rate in the High Desert is already higher than the California
and national average, and the Measure S tax will make things worse. Can we really afford to lose more
jobs?

The supporters of Measure S claim that this will solve the city's money problems, but they have
proposed the marijuana tax measure to achieve the same goal. That means the Measure S tax is
unnecessary. At what point do we say enough is enough?

Lastly, the language of the measure states that this tax can be imposed "in addition to other legitimate
licensing fees," meaning that the council could leave the current flat tax structure in place and add this
tax on top of it. That is double taxation, and that is wrong. We should not be solving our budget
problems on the backs of hardworking Adelanto businesses and residents

The Measure S tax will negatively impact Adelanto residents and families, especially the poor. We
cannot afford the Measure S Tax. Vote to keep jobs in Adelanto. Vote no on the Measure S Tax.

RECEIVED

FILED

OFFICE OF THE
‘"•'SJV CITY CLERK



filed

AUG 2 5 20J6

DATE

-______ U	\	A.	9	A	..





This Rebuttal Argument in Favor of Measure S was submitted pursuant to Section
9285 of the California Elections Code. It is the opinion of the author, and has been
printed exactly as submitted.

There is nothing misleading or deceptive about the tax proposed in Measure S. The City
Council has been completely forthright about the large budget deficits that this City faces,
the risks of municipal bankruptcy, and the dire need to find sources of revenue. Measure
S is designed to restructure the business tax system to both relieve the tax burden on
small businesses and provide a minor, but stable, source of revenue from businesses
generating annual revenue of over $200,000.

Contrary to the argument submitted against Measure S, this tax measure does not
authorize double taxation. Instead, all business license taxes would be limited to 0.05
percent of the business’ revenue generated within the City of Adelanto. Therefore, the
proposed tax would decrease the local tax burden on small businesses generating less
than $200,000 of annual revenue in the City. Further, the 0.05 percent tax on larger
businesses would be extremely minimal.

Of course, businesses will still be subject to all applicable State and federal taxes and
licensing fees, but many small business in the City will see a reprieve from the local
business tax pursuant to this Measure. As a result, this tax will not drive businesses or
jobs away from the City; rather it will encourage business ventures and entrepreneurship
in Adelanto.

s/ Richard Kerr, Mayor

AUG 3 0 2016

DEPUTY

REGISTRAR OF VOTERS