FULL TEXT FOR MEASURE R

Shall the Adelanto City Council be authorized to impose excise taxes, with no
termination date, on each commercial marijuana activity business licensed or operating
within the City of Adelanto in an amount of not more than five percent of the gross
revenue attributable to that business's revenue earned from within the City of Adelanto,
potentially generating millions of dollars annually in additional tax revenue for the City of
Adelanto?

AUG 2 5 2016



DEPUTY

REGISTRAR OF VOTERS

/	\	I	hereby	certify,	the foregoing

instrument to be a full, true and
\%..Xy coned copy o( the original on file
Date:11 Attest: dJi



MEASURE

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY

JUL 2 8 £0)5

RY	DEPUTY

REGISTRAR OF VOTERS

City of Adelanto

Ballot Measure Authorizing Taxes on Commercial Marijuana Activities

This measure authorizes the Adelanto City Council to adopt general excise taxes on businesses
engaged in commercial marijuana activities within the City of Adelanto (“City”). As set forth by
this measure, the City Council may adopt taxes of up to five percent of the revenue attributable
to commercial marijuana activities occurring within the City. Taxable commercial marijuana
activities include all business activities licensed, authorized, or otherwise permitted by State or
local law.

The City adopted an ordinance on May 25, 2016 authorizing the cultivation and manufacturing
of medical marijuana pursuant to permits issued by the City. This measure would authorize the
City Council to adopt taxes of up to five percent of the revenue attributable to each of these
activities within the City. Other commercial activities which may be subject to taxation could
include transportation/dislribution, testing, and dispensing of marijuana.

All revenues received by the City from these taxes must be deposited in the general fund to be
used locally for the benefit of the City.

A “Yes” vote is in favor of adopting this measure and this commercial marijuana activity tax. A
“No” vote is against adopting this measure and prevents the imposition of these taxes on
commercial marijuana activities. If a majority of voters vote “Yes,” then this measure will
authorize the City Council for the City of Adelanto to adopt resolutions and ordinances imposing
the prescribed taxes. This measure was placed on the ballot by the City Council.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure_________.

Dated: 7/27/2016

\ I hereby certify, the foregoing
jA instrument to be a full, true and

—u

/ correct copy of the original on file.

RESOLUTION NO. 16-53

JUL 2 8 2016

BY:

DEPUTY

REGISTRAR OF VOTERS

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
ADELANTO AMENDING RESOLUTION NO. 16-47 AND SUBMITTING
AN ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF THE CITY’S PROPOSITION TO
AUTHORIZE IMPOSITION OF EXCISE TAXES ON COMMERCIAL
MARIJUANA ACTIVITIES

WHEREAS, the City of Adelanto (“City”) is holding a General Municipal Election to be
consolidated with the statewide election on November 8, 2016 in accordance Adelanto
Municipal Code section 1.15.010.

WHEREAS, City Council Resolution No. 16-47 (“Resolution 16-47”) submits a measure
to voters at the November 8, 2016 authorizing the imposition of excise taxes on commercial
marijuana activities within the City.

WHEREAS, Elections Code section 9282 authorizes the City Council to file a written
argument in favor of the commercial marijuana activity tax measure.

WHEREAS, the City Council retained the right to file an argument in favor of the City’s
commercial marijuana activity tax measure in Resolution 16-47.

NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF ADELANTO
RESOLVES AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1: The above recitals are true and correct and are incorporated herein.

SECTION 2: Pursuant to Elections Code section 13119(b), the City Council hereby
amends Resolution 16-47, Section 2, to read as follows:

Pursuant to Elections Code sections 10201 and 9222, the City Council hereby
submits the following proposition to the voters at the General Municipal Election on
November 8,2016:

Measure_________—Commercial Marijuana Activity Excise Tax

Shall the Adelanto City Council be authorized to impose excise taxes,
with no termination date, on each commercial marijuana activity business
licensed or operating within the City of Adelanto in an amount of not more
than five percent of the gross revenue attributable to that business’s revenue
earned from within the City of Adelanto, potentially generating millions of
dollars annually in additional tax revenue for the City of Adelanto?

YES

NO

SECTION 3: Pursuant to Elections Code section 9282(b) and City Council Resolution
16-47, section 6, the City Council hereby submits the following argument in favor of the
measure for a Commercial Marijuana Activity Excise Tax:

Argument In Favor Of Measure________

Commercial Marijuana Activity Excise Tax

Submitted by the City Council for the City of Adelanto

The City of Adelanto (“City”) faces a significant budget deficit that threatens the viability of
this great City. Despite eveiy effort to cut costs and raise revenue, the City still faces deficits
that undermine essential services and threaten the health and of safety of the People of
Adelanto. The City is at a cross-roads and must find additional sources of revenue or risk
facing the potentially severe consequences of municipal bankruptcy.

The State of California recently adopted the Medical Marijuana Regulation and Safety Act that
authorizes and regulates commercial medical marijuana activities within the State. The
Adelanto City Council has determined that the medical marijuana industry will generate a
significant source of revenue that is taxable by the City.

As one of the first cities in the State to authorize and regulate commercial medical marijuana
activities, the City of Adelanto is on the cutting edge of this industiy. The City’s own
safeguards, coupled with State regulations, will create a safe and profitable environment for
businesses in the medical marijuana industiy to flourish. Consequently, the adoption of these
taxes will provide the City with a significant and much needed source of tax revenue without
having to tax the City’s citizens directly.

hi its ongoing efforts to address the City’s budget deficits, the City Council unanimously
supports these new taxes and respectfully requests that the People of Adelanto vote in favor of
this measure.

This is not a tax on the People of Adelanto.

City Council of the City of Adelanto

Richard Kerr, Mayor

Jermaine Wright Sr., Mayor Pro Tern

Ed Camargo, Council Member	Charley	B.	Glasper,	Council	Member

Resolution No. 16-53
Page 3

SECTION 4:	Pursuant to Elections Code section 9285, the City Council hereby

authorizes Richard Kerr, Mayor for the City of Adelanto, to submit a rebuttal argument to any
argument submitted against the measure for a commercial marijuana activity excise tax.

SECTION 5: All arguments submitted pursuant to this Resolution shall be submitted to
the San Bernardino Elections Office of the Registrar of Voters in accordance with the Elections
Code and other applicable laws.

SECTION 6: The City Council determines that this Resolution does not have the
potential to have a physical effect on the environment. Therefore, pursuant to the California
Environmental Quality Act (“CEQA”) and its implementing regulations, this activity is not
subject to CEQA. (Cal. Pub. Res. Code, § 21000 et seq.; 14 Cal. Code Regs., §§ 15060(c)(2),
15378(a).)

SECTION 7: If any section, subsection, or other provision of this Resolution is for any
reason held to be invalid, unconstitutional, illegal, or unenforceable by any court of competent
jurisdiction, or contravened by reason of any preemptive legislation, then such section or
provision shall be severed and shall be inoperative, and the remainder of this Resolution shall
remain in full force and effect.

Resolution No. 16-53
Page 4

PASSED, APPROVED, AND ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of Adelanto on
this 27h day of July, 2016.

Attest:

/W-Cindy M. Herrera, MMQ City Clerk

Approved as to Form