From Contra Costa County Elections Division Website

Measure K

City of Pleasant Hill

Measure Wording

To provide and maintain Pleasant Hill city services and facilities, including fixing potholes, and
repairing neighborhood and city streets; replacing the aging library with a 21st century facility
including space for after-school homework and tutoring; creating additional walking and biking
paths; maintaining storm drains; and other city services; shall the City of Pleasant Hill levy a 1/2
cent sales tax, providing $4,000,000 annually for 20 years, providing locally controlled funding
that cannot be taken by the State?

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE K

On August 1, 2016, the City Council unanimously voted to place Measure “K” on the November
8, 2016 ballot. If approved by a majority of Pleasant Hill voters, this Measure would authorize a
one-half percent (1/2%) retail transactions and use (sales) tax within the City of Pleasant Hill. It
is estimated that Measure “K” will provide an additional $4,000,000 in annual funding. This tax
would be a “general tax,” meaning that revenues raised from the tax would go into the City’s
general fund to pay for any lawful City program, improvement, or service such as maintenance
of streets, sidewalks and storm drains and construction of a new library.

California Revenue and Taxation Code section 7285.9 authorizes the City to levy a general
transactions and use (sales) tax at a rate of one-half percent (1/2%) so long as the tax is approved
by a majority of the voters voting in an election on that issue. If approved, the tax would become
effective on April 1, 2017 and expire on March 31, 2037, unless extended by Pleasant Hill voters
voting at a subsequent election.

The tax would be paid in addition to current sales taxes and would be collected at the same time
and in the same manner as existing sales taxes. All revenues raised by the tax would belong to
the City and would not be shared with the State or any other agency.

Measure “K” requires annual independent audits to verify that tax revenues are collected,
managed and expended in accordance with its terms. Measure “K” also establishes a “Pleasant
Hill Transactions and Use Tax Oversight Committee” to review the collection and expenditure of
tax revenues and to make recommendations to the City Council as appropriate. The number,
qualifications and duties of Committee members shall be established by the City Council.

By placing Measure “K” on the ballot, the City complies with Article XIIIC of the California
Constitution (Proposition 218), which requires a majority of the voters to approve an ordinance
which establishes a general tax.

A “yes” vote on Measure “K” will authorize the 1/2% transactions and use (sales) tax.

A “no” vote on Measure “K” will not authorize the 1/2% transactions and use (sales) tax.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure “K”. If you desire a copy of the
Measure, please call Danielle Habr, the City’s elections official at (925) 671-5237 and a
copy will be mailed to you at no cost.

JANET COLESON
City Attorney

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE K

YES on K Improves Neighborhood and City Streets by providing funding to address
$19,000,000 in infrastructure repair for potholes, failing streets, sidewalks, and bike paths.

YES on K Maintains Our Quality of Life services and will replace our 55-year old Pleasant
Hill Library so that it is SAFE and meets TODAY’S health, safety, fire, and seismic standards
for the security of our community and library users.

YES on K addresses $9,000,000 in storm drain improvements needed to prevent flooding.

For the past 10 years, Sacramento politicians have taken over $20,000,000 from Pleasant Hill!

By law, every penny of Measure K money must continue to be spent on our LOCAL Pleasant
Hill services, and cannot be taken by the State.

YES on K creates LOCAL funds for LOCAL needs - providing a reliable source of local
funding and making infrastructure repairs now, before they become more expensive in the future.

YES on K includes Tough Fiscal Accountability Guarantees including Independent Citizens
Oversight, mandatory annual financial audits to monitor spending and yearly reports to the
community — guaranteeing funds are spent responsibly and as promised.

YES on K ensures that out of town shoppers share the cost.

Here’s what Measure K will NOT do:

Measure K is NOT a tax on your home or property.

Measure K does NOT apply to purchases of groceries or prescription medication.

YES on K is supported by Pleasant Hill residents from all neighborhoods and walks of life, who
value our community and want to keep property values high. Join a unanimous City Council and
business and civic leaders committed to fixing our streets, sidewalks, and storm drains, and
providing the safe library that we expect by voting YES on K.

For factual information, visit www.pleasanthillca.org/MeasureK. Remember to VOTE LOCAL
this election season!

Safe Streets & Library, Yes on K 2016,

Susan Weaver, President

Sue Noack, Pleasant Hill Mayor

Joe Stokley, Local Pleasant Hill Business Owner

Steve Oldenbourg, Co-Founder, Foundation for Pleasant Hill Education

Chuck Murphy, Chair, PH Traffic Safety Commission

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE K

Pleasant Hill has avoided its responsibilities for years. Instead of maintaining streets, storm
drains and buildings, the city gave employees raises and benefits.

The current city budget shows annual compensation, including benefits, averages $151,207 per
employee. This average is even higher when you include the $1.64 million in UNBUDGETED
increases given AFTER Council approved the budget.

Measure K can be spent on anything. There’s no guarantee it would be spent on maintenance or a
new library.

•	They don’t have a prioritized spending plan.

o They still need to identify everything that needs maintenance and repair,
o The city says it will do a study by 2018.

o They shouldn’t ask for new taxes until priorities are clear and they know how
much they need.

•	Their library cost estimates are unrealistic.

o They say they’ll build a new library for $15-20 million, but nearby cities have
paid more than that for their libraries. (Construction of the Lafayette library cost
$43 million; Walnut Creek’s library cost $40 million.)
o The city doesn’t own land to build on. There’s no plan or budget,
o The project could easily cost $40 million or more to buy land and build at today’s
prices.

•	The city wants us to pay the county’s bills.

o Pleasant Hill’s library is owned and operated by the county,
o Pleasant Hill can’t afford to fix flooding problems, repair buildings and maintain
streets; it can’t afford to maintain county facilities, too.

Pleasant Hill Citizens for Responsible Growth (PHCRG) is an all-volunteer, non-partisan,
non-profit group that promotes fiscal responsibility and transparency in local government. We
work to ensure residents receive good value for their tax dollars.

Measure K is a blank check to a city that hasn’t done its homework.

Vote NO on Measure K!

www.PHCRG.org

Pleasant Hill Citizens for Responsible Growth,
Norman Vanhole, Treasurer

REBUTTAL TO THE ARGUMENT IN FAVOR MEASURE K

Even if Measure K generates $80 million over 20 years, it still wouldn’t satisfy the city’s
spending habits.

The city spends without thinking:

•	They over-promise.

o The city wants $28 million from Measure K to fix streets, sidewalks and storm
drains.

o They want $42 million for other capital projects.

o They also want $20 million for a new library. But there hasn’t been a local library
built for less than $40 million.

•	They forget about upcoming costs.

o The city plans to borrow money for the library. Loan payments could cost $26
million.

o Employee pension and healthcare costs grow bigger every year. (Last year 11 city
retirees each received over $100,000 in annual pension benefits:
http	\ libit.ly/2bvsTT c)

o Measure K will buy higher employee salaries, benefits and pensions.

•	They don’t plan to be held accountable.

o Oversight committees lack authority and aren’t independent,
o The Measure K oversight committee will be no different. It’s created to
rubberstamp city decisions,
o Audits don’t ensure money is spent wisely or as promised,
o The city can - and will - spend Measure K money however it wants,
o They’ll say anything to pass Measure K - their salaries and benefits depend on it.

ENOUGH IS ENOUGH! We deserve a city that thinks before it taxes and spends. Before
asking for new taxes, the city should do its homework first and be straight with us about how
the money will be spent.

STOP THIS TAX INCREASE!

Vote NO on K!

www.PHCRG.org

Pleasant Hill Citizens for Responsible Growth,

Norman Vanhole, Treasurer

REBUTTAL TO THE ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE K

Measure K provides a reliable source of local revenue for local needs with local control -

money that the City will use for local infrastructure and building a new library.

Pleasant Hill has been financially responsible. However, because of State Takeaways of over
$20 million and the recession, the City was forced to defer critical maintenance of its

infrastructure. Measure K addresses this need with a reliable funding source that cannot be taken
by the State.

Measure K will NOT be used for employee salaries and benefits.

The City’s adopted Goals include improved infrastructure and a new library, and the City’s Long
Term Financial Plan and Capital Improvement Plan clearly identify the following needs:

•	$15 million in deferred maintenance on neighborhood streets

•	$13 million in vital maintenance and improvements to sidewalks and storm drains

•	$11 million for ADA upgrades and pedestrian walkways and bike paths

While the County provides library services, it does not build libraries. The City’s Library Task
Force recommended a new 25,000 square foot library suitable for Pleasant Hill, which would
cost $15 million based on recent library construction costs. There is NO additional cost for
land.

And, to guarantee that the money is spent as promised, Measure K requires the establishment of
an INDEPENDENT CITIZENS OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE and MANDATORY
FINANCIAL AUDITS.

Join with the Pleasant Hill Chamber of Commerce, a unanimous City Council, and community
leaders in supporting Measure K to fix our deteriorating streets, sidewalks and storm drains, and
build a new library. Vote YES on Measure K!

Julie McCoy, Chairperson, Pleasant Hill Chamber of Commerce

Jim Bonato, Program Manager, Pleasant Hill Community Emergency Response Team

Mary Gray, Pleasant Hill Education Commissioner

David Durant, City Councilmember

Angela Warren, Owner, Wise Girl Ristorante