Live Oak School District, California,
Parcel Tax, Measure R (June 2016)

| Text of measure

Ballot question

The following question appeared on the ballot:!1]

// To protect quality education with funds that cannot be taken by the State,
including science, art, music, reading, math and tutoring programs, attract
and retain qualified teachers, support library services, and preserve small
class sizes and after school programs to keep children safe, shall Live Oak
School District renew its existing annual education parcel tax at $98, for
twelve years, with exemptions for senior citizens, citizen oversight,
mandatory audits and no money for administrative salaries?]2]

Impartial analysis

The following impartial analysis of the measure was prepared by the office of the
Santa Cruz County Counsel:

If this measure is approved by at least two-thirds of those voting on it, the Live Oak
School District ("the School District") will be authorized to levy a special tax on
real property. The tax would be imposed for twelve years beginning July 1, 2018, at
the rate of $98 per year on each parcel within the School District.

The proceeds of the special tax, if approved, may be applied only to the purposes
set out in the full text of Measure R which is printed in this pamphlet. It may not be
used for administrators' salaries, benefits or pensions.

In accordance with State law, the measure includes accountability measures. The
School District would create a separate account into which the proceeds of the
special tax shall be deposited. An annual written report would show the amount of
the special taxes which have been collected and expended, and the status of projects
to be funded from those proceeds.

The School District also would maintain a Citizens' Oversight Committee to
provide oversight as to the expenditure of parcel tax revenues.

The special parcel tax is to be collected in the same manner as those property taxes
which are based upon property value.

Property owners whose property is used solely for owner-occupied, single family
residential purposes and who are 65 years of age or older, or who are receiving
specified federal benefits regardless of age, may obtain an exemption from the
parcel tax by applying to the School District. Owners who currently receive an

exemption from the School District's existing Measure A parcel tax of $84 will not
need to file a new application for exemption. The School District may establish
procedures to verify the continued qualification of an exemption. Owners of
contiguous parcels meeting specified criteria may also apply to the District to have
them treated as a single parcel for purposes of the tax.

The School District Board of Trustees proposes to reduce this parcel tax if it should
develop that it has an unintended effect of decreasing or offsetting local, state or
federal government funding sources that would otherwise be available to the School
District.

This measure was placed on the ballot by the Board of Trustees of the Live Oak
School District.

A "yes" vote is to approve imposition of the special parcel tax.

A "no" vote is against imposition of the special parcel tax.[:]

—Santa Cruz County Counsel™

R1

p Live Oak School District parcel tax

Ballot question	Pregunta de boleta
To protect quality education with funds that cannot be taken by the State, including science, art, music, reading, math and tutoring programs, attract and retain qualified teachers, support library services, and preserve small class sizes and after school programs to keep children safe, shall Live Oak School District renew its existing annual education parcel tax at $98, for twelve years, with exemptions for senior citizens, citizen oversight, mandatory audits and no money for administrative salaries?  What your vote means	A fin de proteger la calidad de la educacion con fondos que no puedan ser tornados por el Estado, incluyendo programas de ciencias, arte, musica, lectura, matematicas y tutoria, atraer y retener maestros calificados, apoyar los servicios de biblioteca, y preservar el tamano reducido de las clases y los programas extracurriculares para mantener a los ninos seguros, idebe el Distrito Escolar de Oak renovar su impuesto anual a la parcela para educacion existente en $98, durante doce anos, con exenciones para ciudadanos mayores, supervision ciudadana, auditorias obligatorias y ningun dinero para salarios administrativos?
YES	NO
A "Yes" vote is to approve imposition of the special parcel tax.  For and against Measure R	A "No" vote is against imposition of the special parcel tax.
FOR	AGAINST
John Leopold  Santa Cruz County Supervisor Stacey Kyle  President, Live Oak Education Foundation and Live Oak School Parent  Jan Beautz  Retired Santa Cruz County Supervisor and Longtime Live Oak Resident  Derek Rupp  Business Owner, Pleasure Pizza and East Side Eatery and Del Mar School Parent  Jim Hart  Santa Cruz County Sheriff	No argument against was filed.

Presidential Primary Election • Santa Cruz County • Tuesday, June 7, 2016

Arguments and replies are the opinions of the authors. We print them exactly as submitted, including errors.

Argument for Measure R

Vote YES on Measure R to protect quality, well-rounded
education in Live Oak schools. Without Measure R, essential
school programs will be cut, like reading and math tutoring
and art and music programs. Every penny from Measure R will
benefit local schools, be controlled locally and cannot be
taken by the state.

This measure renews a stable source of local funds for our
neighborhood schools, which attracts and retains our valuable
teachers and helps protect a well-rounded academic program
for our students. The tutoring funded by this measure will help
students who are behind in reading and math catch up to their
grade level, and the after-school programs funded by Measure
R will help keep our children safe.

After years of state budget cuts, funding for our local schools
is still below the level it was six years ago. While the economy
has improved, local school funding has not returned to pre-
recession levels.

Vote YES on Measure R to:

•	Protect math, science, reading and writing programs

•	Preserve art and music programs

•	Attract and retain qualified teachers

•	Maintain hands-on science classes, such as Life Lab

•	Support after-school programs to keep children safe

•	Prepare our students for high school, college and high-
paying jobs

Measure R funds stay in Live Oak classrooms:

•	All funds will be used to benefit our local schools and will be
controlled locally - no funds can be taken away by the state

•	No funds can be used for administrators' salaries

•	Everyone, from local businesses to residents, will pay
their fair share

•	Use of funds will continue to be monitored by a Citizen
Oversight Committee and annual audits will continue to
ensure funds are only spent on voter-approved purposes

Join us in voting YES on Measure R to continue providing great
education in Live Oak schools!

John Leopold

Santa Cruz County Supervisor
Stacey Kyle*

President, Live Oak Education Foundation and Live Oak School
Parent

Jan Beautz

Retired Santa Cruz County Supervisor and Longtime Live Oak
Resident

Derek Rupp

Business Owner, Pleasure Pizza and East Side Eatery and Del
Mar School Parent

Jim Hart

Santa Cruz County Sheriff

*Signing on behalf of the organization listed below the name.

Presidential Primary Election • Santa Cruz County • Tuesday, June 7, 2016

No argument against Measure R was filed.

R3

Impartial analysis of Measure R

Dana McRae, County Counsel

By Jane M. Scott, Assistant County Counsel

If this measure is approved by at least two-thirds of those voting on it, the Live Oak School District ("the School District")
will be authorized to levy a special tax on real property. The tax would be imposed for twelve years beginning July 1,
2018, at the rate of $98 per year on each parcel within the School District.

The proceeds of the special tax, if approved, may be applied only to the purposes set out in the full text of Measure R
which is printed in this pamphlet. It may not be used for administrators' salaries, benefits or pensions.

In accordance with State law, the measure includes accountability measures. The School District would create a
separate account into which the proceeds of the special tax shall be deposited. An annual written report would show the
amount of the special taxes which have been collected and expended, and the status of projects to be funded from those
proceeds.

The School District also would maintain a Citizens' Oversight Committee to provide oversight as to the expenditure of
parcel tax revenues.

The special parcel tax is to be collected in the same manner as those property taxes which are based upon property
value.

Property owners whose property is used solely for owner-occupied, single family residential purposes and who are 65
years of age or older, or who are receiving specified federal benefits regardless of age, may obtain an exemption from
the parcel tax by applying to the School District. Owners who currently receive an exemption from the School District's
existing Measure A parcel tax of $84 will not need to file a new application for exemption. The School District may
establish procedures to verify the continued qualification of an exemption. Owners of contiguous parcels meeting
specified criteria may also apply to the District to have them treated as a single parcel for purposes of the tax.

The School District Board of Trustees proposes to reduce this parcel tax if it should develop that it has an unintended
effect of decreasing or offsetting local, state or federal government funding sources that would otherwise be available
to the School District.

This measure was placed on the ballot by the Board of Trustees of the Live Oak School District.

A "yes" vote is to approve imposition of the special parcel tax.

A "no" vote is against imposition of the special parcel tax.

Full text of Measure R

LIVE OAK SCHOOL DISTRICT

Education and Local Control Funding Measure R

INTRODUCTION AND PURPOSE

To continue funding for core programs in math, science and technology, provide local reliable funding for local
schools that cannot be taken by the State, attract and retain highly qualified teachers, maintain science programs,such
as Life Lab, a hands-on science class, maintain libraries, preserve programs in art and music, with no proceeds used
for administrators’ salaries, benefits and pensions, the Live Oak School District ("District”) proposesto renew and
extend its existing education and local control parcel tax for a period of twelve years from its current expiration date
(June 30, 2018), starting on July 1, 2018 at a rate of $98 per parcel per year, with an exemption available for senior
citizens and certain disabled persons, and to implement accountability measures, including citizen oversight, to ensure
the funds are used to help:

•	Protect math, science, reading and writing programs;

•	Preserve art and music programs;

•	Maintain hands-on science classes,such as Life Lab;

•	Attract and retain highly qualified teachers;

•	Support after-school programs to keep children safe; and

•	Protect the taxpayers’ investment in education and ensure District accountability by providing for taxpayer
oversight and independent financial audits of revenues and expenditures.

The proceeds of the parcel tax shall be deposited into a separate account created by the District.

Presidential Primary Election • Santa Cruz County • Tuesday, June 7, 2016

R4

DEFINITION OF "PARCEL"

For purposes of the education and local control parcel tax, the term "Parcel"means any parcel of land which lies
wholly or partially within the boundaries of the Live Oak School District, that receives a separate tax bill for ad
valorem property taxes from the Santa Cruz County Assessor/Tax Collector, as applicable. All property that is
otherwise exempt from or upon which are levied no ad valorem property taxes in any year shall also be exempt from
the education and local control parcel tax in such year.

For purposes of this education and local control parcel tax, any such "Parcels" which are (i) contiguous, and (ii)
used solely for owner-occupied, single-family residential purposes, and (iii) held under identical ownership may, by
submitting to the District an application of the owners thereof by June 15 of any year, betreated as a single "parcel"
for purposesof the levy of the high quality education and local control parcel tax.

EXEMPTION FOR SENIORS AND SSI RECIPIENTS

Pursuant to California Government Code Section 50079 (b)(1), any owner of a Parcel used solely for owner-
occupied, single-family residential purposes and who are either (a) 55 years of age or older on or before June 30
of the fiscal year immediately preceding the year in which the tax would apply, or (b) persons receiving
Supplemental Security Income for a disability, regardless of age, or (c) receiving Social Security Disability Insurance
benefits, regardless of age, whose yearly income does not exceed 250 percent of the 2012 federal poverty guidelines
issued by the United States Department of Health and Human Services, may obtain an exemption from the parcel tax by
submitting an application therefore, by June 15 of any year,to the District.

Persons who are owners of Parcels used solely for owner-occupied, single-family residential purposes and currently
exempted from the District's expiring Measure A parcel tax shall automatically be exempted from this Measure without
having to file a new application.

The District may establish administrative procedures to periodically verify the continuance of any previously granted
exemption.

With respect to all general property tax matters within its jurisdiction, the Santa Cruz County Treasurer and Tax
Collector or other appropriate county tax officials, shall make all final determinations of tax exemption or relief for
any reason, and that decision shall be final and binding. With respect to matters specific to the levy of the high
quality education and local control parcel tax, including any exemptions and the classification of property for
purposes of calculating the tax, the decisions of the District shall be final and binding.

REDUCTION IN TAX IF RESULT IS LESS OTHER GOVERNMENT SUPPORT

The collection of the education and local control parcel tax is not intended to decrease or offset any increase in local,
state or federal government revenue sources that would otherwise be available to the District during the period of the
parcel tax. In the event that the levy and collection does have such an effect, the District may cease the levy or shall
reduce the parcel tax to the extent that such action would restore the amount of the decrease or offset in other
revenues.

ACCOUNTABILITY MEASURES

In accordance with the requirements of California Government Code Sections 50075.1 and 50075.3, the following
accountability measures, among others, shall apply to the parcel tax levied in accordance with this Measure: (a) the
specific purposes of the parcel tax shall be those purposes identified above; (b) the proceeds of the parcel tax shall be
applied only to those specific purposes identified above; (c) a separate, special account shall be created into which the
proceeds of the education and local control parcel tax must be deposited; and (d) an annual written report shall be made
to the Board of Trustees of the District showing (i) the amount of funds collected and expended from the proceeds of the
high quality education and local control parcel tax and (ii) the status of any projects or programs required or authorized
to be funded from the proceeds of the parcel tax, as identified above. In addition to the accountability measures required
by law, the District will maintain its existing Citizens' Oversight Committee to provide oversight as to the expenditure of
parcel tax revenues.

Presidential Primary Election • Santa Cruz County • Tuesday, June 7, 2016

Resolution #2015/16-13

ADOPTION COPY

h^rAcfjf

rr,y

)re$ eiScr/o,YS

RESOLUTION OF THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE LIVE <5&Kty
SCHOOL DISTRICT CALLING FOR A JUNE 7, 2016 ELECTION TO
RENEW EDUCATION AND LOCAL CONTROL PARCEL TAX

WHEREAS, the Live Oak School District (the “District”) is devoted to quality,
well-rounded public education; and

WHEREAS, the District believes schools with programs in math, science, reading,
writing, art and music will attract qualified teachers, make our neighborhoods desirable,
attract families and keep our property values strong; and

WHEREAS, in 2008 the voters of the District approved an education and local
control parcel tax (the “Measure A”) for a period of nine years; and

WHEREAS, revenues from the Measure A provide a stable source of funding that
support local schools and cannot be taken by the State; and

WHEREAS, stable local funding is needed to maintain our core programs in math,
science, reading and writing, to maintain hands-on science classes, such as Life Lab, and to
attract and retain highly qualified teachers; and

WHEREAS, unless Measure A is extended by voters, the loss of funding will result
in a substantial reduction of educational programs; and

WHEREAS, Article XIIIA, Section 4 of the California Constitution and Sections
50075 et seep, of the California Government Code permit a school district to renew a parcel
tax for specified purposes and to levy such tax following approval by at least two-thirds of
the voters voting upon the proposition; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Trustees (the “Board”) of the District proposes to place a
measure on the June 7,2016 ballot to continue its quality education and local control parcel
tax upon parcels of land within the District for the purposes set forth in this Resolution; and

WHEREAS, such renewal will maintain and preserve all existing exemptions to
Measure A, without any further application being required from those eligible persons;

WHEREAS, the Board will apply all the proceeds of the parcel tax to support high
achieving core academic programs in math, science, reading, writing, music and art, and
for uses as set forth in this Resolution, and will not use any of said proceeds for
administrator’s salaries, benefits or pensions; and

WHEREAS, all expenditures of the parcel tax will continue to be subject to citizen
oversight and annual reports to ensure funds are spent appropriately; and

1

WHEREAS, the Board proposes to continue the parcel tax because the revenues
will benefit only the District’s schools and cannot be taken by the State of California or by
other school districts; and

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the Board of Trustees of the Live
Oak School District as follows:

Section 1. This Board finds and determines that the foregoing recitals are true and

correct.

Section 2. This Board hereby proposes to renew and extend the levy of the quality
education and local control parcel tax to provide stable local funding the State cannot take
away to help:

•	Protect math, science, reading and writing programs;

•	Preserve art and music programs;

•	Maintain hands-on science classes, such as Life Lab;

•	Attract and retain highly qualified teachers;

•	Support after-school programs to keep children safe; and

•	Protect the taxpayers’ investment in education and ensure District
accountability by providing for taxpayer oversight and independent financial
audits of revenues and expenditures.

UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES SHALL ANY OF THE PROCEEDS OF THE
QUALITY EDUCATION AND LOCAL CONTROL PARCEL TAX BE USED FOR
ADMINISTRATORS’ SALARIES, BENEFITS OR PENSIONS.

Pursuant to Government Code Section 50075.1 the Board determines that the
proceeds of the quality education and local control parcel tax shall only be applied for the
purposes stated above.

Section 3. Subject to voter approval, the existing Measure A parcel tax be
continued with a new $98 per parcel per year quality education and local control parcel tax
which will commence on July 1, 2018 shall be continued for twelve years from that date.

As used herein, the term “Parcel” means any parcel of land which lies wholly or
partially within the boundaries of the District, for which the applicable Santa Cruz County
Assessor/Tax Collector (together, “Tax Collector”), issues a separate tax bill for ad
valorem property taxes; provided, however, that any such parcels which are (i) contiguous,
and (ii) used solely for owner-occupied, single-family residential purposes, and (iii) held
under identical ownership, may, by submitting an application of the owners thereof by
June 15 of any year to the District be treated as a single parcel for purposes of the levy of
this high quality education parcel tax.

DOCSSF/I21187v4/200156-0004

2

Section 4. Subject to voter approval as set forth below, the parcel tax shall be
levied commencing with the 2018-2019 (starting on July 1, 2018 upon the expiration of
Measure A) fiscal year of the District, and shall be collected with, and in the same manner
and subject to the same interest and penalties as, general ad valorem taxes collected by the
Santa Cruz County Treasurer and Tax Collector. In accordance with the requirements of
Government Code Section 50075.1(c), the District shall create a separate account into
which the proceeds of the special tax shall be deposited.

Section 5. The levy and collection of the parcel tax is not intended to decrease or
offset any increase in local, state or federal government funding sources that would
otherwise be available to the District at any time during which the parcel tax may be levied.
In the event that the levy and collection of the parcel tax does have such an effect, the
District shall reduce the parcel tax levy to the extent of any such decrease or offset.
Additionally, any persons who are the owner of a Parcel used solely for owner-occupied,
single-family residential purposes, and either (a) 65 years of age or older on or before
June 30 of the fiscal year immediately preceding the fiscal year in which the tax should
apply, or (b) receiving Supplemental Security Income for a disability regardless of age, or
(c) receiving Social Security Disability Insurance benefits, regardless of age, whose yearly
income does not exceed 250 percent of the 2012 federal poverty guidelines issued by the
United States Department of Health and Human Services, may obtain an exemption from
the levy of the high quality education and local control parcel tax, by submitting to the
District an application of such owners or persons, prior to June 15 of any year.

Persons who are owners of Parcels used solely for owner-occupied, single-family
residential purposes and who currently receive an exemption from the District’s Measure A
parcel tax, shall automatically qualify for an exemption from this renewal without needing
to file a new application for that exemption.

The District may establish administrative procedures to periodically verify the
continued qualification of any previously granted exemption.

Section 6. The Board shall provide in each year (pursuant to Section 7902.1 of the
Government Code) for any increase in the District’s appropriation limit as shall be
necessary to ensure that proceeds of the parcel tax may be spent for the authorized
purposes set forth in Section 2 above and Section 7 below.

Section 7. The Board hereby requests that the Santa Cruz County Registrar of
Voters submit the measure attached hereto as Exhibit B to the voters of the District and to
print the entire Full Ballot Text in the ballot pamphlet to be published and mailed for the
election scheduled for Tuesday, June 7,2016.

The abbreviated text of the ballot proposition with respect to the foregoing measure
shall read as shown in Exhibit A hereto.

The District's Superintendent, or designee, is hereby authorized and directed to
make any changes to the text of the measure, or to the abbreviated form of the measure, as

3

may be convenient or necessary to comply with the intent of this Resolution, the
requirements of elections officials, and requirements of law.

Section 8. The measure set forth in Exhibits A and B shall be submitted to the
voters of the District at an election to be held on June 7, 2016. If approved by at least two-
thirds of the voters voting on the measure, the measure shall take effect on July 1, 2018.

Section 9. This Resolution shall stand as the order to the Santa Cruz County
Registrar of Voters, respectively, to call an election within the boundaries of the District on
June 7, 2016. This Board requests that the District election be consolidated with any and
all elections to be held within the boundaries of the District on June 7, 2016.

Section 10. The Board hereby requests that the Santa Cruz County Registrar of
Voters or other appropriate election officials of Santa Cruz County, take all actions which
are necessary or appropriate in connection with the election, including, but not limited to,
printing and mailing sample ballots, arguments and applications for absentee ballots,
canvassing election returns and certifying the results of the election to the Board. The
Board hereby agrees to reimburse each of Santa Cruz County in full for any services
performed by each for the District upon presentation of an invoice to the District.

Section 11. The Secretary of the Board is hereby authorized and directed to
deliver a copy of this Resolution to the Santa Cruz County Superintendent of Schools by
March 8, 2016 and the Registrars of Voters/Elections Department of Santa Cruz County, as
well as the Clerk of the Board of Supervisors of Santa Cruz County, not later than March
11, 2016, and to give notice of the election by causing the Registrar of Voters/Elections
Department to publish the text of the measure and other items, not later than 15 days before
the date of the election. The Secretary of the Board is hereby further authorized and
directed to post a copy of this Resolution on or near the doors of the District Office and in
three public places within the District for at least two weeks before the date of the election.

Section 12. If any section, subsection, phrase or clause of this Resolution is for
any reason found to be invalid, such section, subsection, phrase or clause shall be severed
from, and shall not affect the validity of, all remaining portions of this Resolution which
can be given effect without the severed portion.

Section 13. The members of the Board are hereby authorized, but not directed, to
prepare and file with the Santa Cruz County Registrar of Voters/Election Department,
respectively, a ballot argument in favor of the proposition contained in Section 7 hereof,
within the time established by such Department.

Section 14. Subject to two-thirds approval of the District’s voters, the parcel tax
shall be collected by the Santa Cruz County Tax Collector, at the same time and manner
and shall be subject to the same penalties as ad valorem property taxes collected by the Tax
Collector. The Parcel Tax shall bear interest at the same rate for unpaid ad valorem
property taxes until paid.

Section 15. The chief fiscal officer of the District shall, pursuant to Government
Code Section 50075.3, file an annual report to the Board of Trustees as provided herein

4

accounting for the high quality education and local control tax revenues collected and the
manner in which they have been spent.

Section 16. The officers of the District are, and each of them acting alone is,
hereby directed to take such other actions and to execute such other documents as are
necessary to carry out the purposes of this Resolution.

Section 17. Pursuant to Elections Code Section 10400 the Board requests the
governing body of any such other political subdivision, or any officer otherwise authorized
by law, to partially or completely consolidate such election and to further provide that the
canvass be made by anybody or official authorized by law to canvass the returns of the
election, and that the Board consents to such consolidation.

5

The foregoing Resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Live Oak
School District at a regular meeting held on February 23,2016 by the following vote:

AYES:

NOES:

Clerk Larry Perlin, James Henrikson, Phyllis Greenleaf
and Paul Garcia
None

ABSTAIN None

ABSENT:	onp

ljdnt, Board of Tru;
Oak School Di:

ATTEST

/s/

&

Clerk, Board of Trustees'
Live Oak School District

DOCSSF/121187v4/200156-0004

6

EXHIBIT A

ABBREVIATED BALLOT TEXT

“To protect quality education with funds that cannot be taken by the State, including
science, art, music, reading, math and tutoring programs, attract and retain qualified
teachers, support library services, and preserve small class sizes and after school programs
to keep children safe, shall Live Oak School District renew its existing annual education
parcel tax at $98, for twelve years, with exemptions for senior citizens, citizen oversight,
mandatory audits and no money for administrative salaries?”

Yes	No

9

DOCSSF/121187v4/200156-0004

A-7

EXHIBIT B

* START OF FULL BALLOT TEXT*

LIVE OAK SCHOOL DISTRICT
Education and Local Control Funding Measure_

INTRODUCTION AND PURPOSE

To continue funding for core programs in math, science and technology, provide
local reliable funding for local schools that cannot be taken by the State, attract and retain
highly qualified teachers, maintain science programs, such as Life Lab, a hands-on science
class, maintain libraries, preserve programs in art and music, with no proceeds used for
administrators’ salaries, benefits and pensions, the Live Oak School District (“District”)
proposes to renew and extend its existing education and local control parcel tax for a period
of twelve years from its current expiration date (June 30, 2018), starting on July 1, 2018 at
a rate of $98 per parcel per year, with an exemption available for senior citizens and certain
disabled persons, and to implement accountability measures, including citizen oversight, to
ensure the funds are used to help:

•	Protect math, science, reading and writing programs;

•	Preserve art and music programs;

•	Maintain hands-on science classes, such as Life Lab;

•	Attract and retain highly qualified teachers;

•	Support after-school programs to keep children safe; and

•	Protect the taxpayers’ investment in education and ensure District accountability
by providing for taxpayer oversight and independent financial audits of
revenues and expenditures.

The proceeds of the parcel tax shall be deposited into a separate account created by
the District.

A-8

DEFINITION OF “PARCEL”

For purposes of the education and local control parcel tax, the term “Parcel” means
any parcel of land which lies wholly or partially within the boundaries of the Live Oak
School District, that receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem property taxes from the
Santa Cruz County Assessor/Tax Collector, as applicable. All property that is otherwise
exempt from or upon which are levied no ad valorem property taxes in any year shall also
be exempt from the education and local control parcel tax in such year.

For purposes of this education and local control parcel tax, any such “Parcels”
which are (i) contiguous, and (ii) used solely for owner-occupied, single-family residential
purposes, and (iii) held under identical ownership may, by submitting to the District an
application of the owners thereof by June 15 of any year, be treated as a single “parcel” for
purposes of the levy of the high quality education and local control parcel tax.

EXEMPTION FOR SENIORS AND SSI RECIPIENTS

Pursuant to California Government Code Section 50079 (b)(1), any owner of a
Parcel used solely for owner-occupied, single-family residential purposes and who are
either (a) 65 years of age or older on or before June 30 of the fiscal year immediately
preceding the year in which the tax would apply, or (b) persons receiving Supplemental
Security Income for a disability, regardless of age, or (c) receiving Social Security
Disability Insurance benefits, regardless of age, whose yearly income does not exceed 250
percent of the 2012 federal poverty guidelines issued by the United States Department of
Health and Human Services, may obtain an exemption from the parcel tax by submitting an
application therefore, by June 15 of any year, to the District.

Persons who are owners of Parcels used solely for owner-occupied, single-family
residential purposes and currently exempted from the District’s expiring Measure A parcel
tax shall automatically be exempted from this Measure without having to file a new
application.

The District may establish administrative procedures to periodically verify the
continuance of any previously granted exemption.

With respect to all general property tax matters within its jurisdiction, the Santa
Cruz County Treasurer and Tax Collector or other appropriate county tax officials, shall
make all final determinations of tax exemption or relief for any reason, and that decision
shall be final and binding. With respect to matters specific to the levy of the high quality
education and local control parcel tax, including any exemptions and the classification of
property for purposes of calculating the tax, the decisions of the District shall be final and
binding.

REDUCTION IN TAX IF RESULT IS LESS OTHER GOVERNMENT SUPPORT

The collection of the education and local control parcel tax is not intended to
decrease or offset any increase in local, state or federal government revenue sources that
would otherwise be available to the District during the period of the parcel tax. In the

A-9

DOCSSF/121187v4/200156-0004

event that the levy and collection does have such an effect, the District may cease the levy
or shall reduce the parcel tax to the extent that such action would restore the amount of the
decrease or offset in other revenues.

ACCOUNTABILITY MEASURES

In accordance with the requirements of California Government Code Sections
50075.1 and 50075.3, the following accountability measures, among others, shall apply to
the parcel tax levied in accordance with this Measure: (a) the specific purposes of the
parcel tax shall be those purposes identified above; (b) the proceeds of the parcel tax shall
be applied only to those specific purposes identified above; (c) a separate, special account
shall be created into which the proceeds of the education and local control parcel tax must
be deposited; and (d) an annual written report shall be made to the Board of Trustees of the
District showing (i) the amount of funds collected and expended from the proceeds of the
high quality education and local control parcel tax and (ii) the status of any projects or
programs required or authorized to be funded from the proceeds of the parcel tax, as
identified above. In addition to the accountability measures required by law, the District
will maintain its existing Citizens’ Oversight Committee to provide oversight as to the
expenditure of parcel tax revenues.

*End of Full Ballot Text of Measure*

DOCSSF/121187v4/200156-0004

A-10

EXHIBIT C

FORMAL NOTICE OF PARCEL TAX ELECTION

NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN to the qualified electors of the Live Oak School District that
in accordance with the provisions of the Government Code of the State of California, an
election will be held on June 7, 2016, at which election the following proposition shall be
submitted to the qualified electors of the District and voted upon:

‘To protect quality education with funds that cannot be taken by the State, including
science, art, music, reading, math and tutoring programs, attract and retain qualified
teachers, support library services, and preserve small class sizes and after school programs
to keep children safe, shall Live Oak School District renew its existing annual education
parcel tax at $98, for twelve years, with exemptions for senior citizens, citizen oversight,
mandatory audits and no money for administrative salaries?”

The Santa Cruz County Superintendent of Schools, by this Notice of Election, has
called die election pursuant to a Resolution of the Board of Trustees of the Live Oak
School District, adopted on February 23,2016.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this ^ day of

^Michae/f C. Watkins
Santa Cruz County Superintendent of
Schools

DOCSSF/121187v4/200156-0004

A-l 1