KENTFIELD SCHOOL DISTRICT

MEASURE B

MEASURE B: To provide stable funding the State cannot take away, ensure excellence in core
academic programs, attract and retain highly-qualified teachers, maintain small class sizes, and
enhance enrichment programs, shall the Kentfield School District be authorized to levy $1600 per
parcel annually for ten (10) years, with a 5% annual increase, provide a senior citizens' exemption,
and have all funds stay local?

YES	NO

COUNTY COUNSEL'S IMPARTIAL
ANALYSIS OF MEASURE B

KENTFIELD SCHOOL DISTRICT
PARCEL TAX ELECTION

This measure was placed on the ballot by the Board of Trustees of the Kentfield School District to
authorize a special tax to raise money for the cost of public education not to exceed $1,600 per parcel
of taxable real property with an annual 5% rate increase, and continuing for a period of ten years.

If this measure is approved by two-thirds of the vote, the Kentfield School District would be authorized
to levy the special tax on any unit of real property in the District that receives a separate tax bill for
ad valorem taxes. A parcel shall be defined as any unit of land in the District that receives a separate
tax bill from the Marin County

Tax Collector. Any parcel that is classified by the Marin County Assessor as a timeshare property, for
the purposes of levying and collecting the special tax against such parcels, shall be set in amount
proportional to the percentage of the year owned by said timeshare, to the extent permitted by law.

All property that would otherwise be exempt from property taxes will also be exempt from the
qualified special tax. An exemption will be available to persons who are 65 years or older and own and
occupy as a principal residence a parcel and apply to the District for such exemption under procedures
established by the District or otherwise as required by law or by the Marin County Tax Collector.

The proceeds of the special tax shall be applied only for the purposes set forth in the measure.

s/STEVEN M. WOODSIDE
County Counsel

By s/Sheila Lichtblau, Deputy County Counsel

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE B

Bacich Elementary and Kent Middle are exemplary schools, both having been officially recognized with
Gold Ribbon Awards by the California Department of Education. Measure B will enable the Kentfield
School District to continue to ensure excellence in core academic programs, attract and retain highly
qualified teachers, maintain small class sizes, and enhance enrichment programs.

For over 100 years, Kentfield schools have ignited the educational curiosity of students, successfully
preparing them to excel in higher education and contribute to our community. The reputation of our
schools attracts families to the District, resulting in steadily increasing property values and retention of
that value during downtimes like the recent recession.

Measure B is vital to our schools and the health of our community. The Kentfield/Greenbrae
community has supported a District parcel tax since 1987. The parcel tax is a crucial, reliable funding
stream which represents 25% of the District's budget. Combined with prudent spending and generous
contributions from parents and the community, the parcel tax enables our schools to achieve the
excellence we have come to expect. Loss of this funding stream - up to $5 million annually - would
have a devastating effect on our program.

To conform with recent court rulings, Measure B will amend the structure of its renewed parcel tax by
charging all parcels a uniform rate instead of the tiered rates for residential and commercial rates
under the current 2008 parcel tax. The renewal will continue 5% annual increases to address inflation,
projected enrollment growth, and rising costs. Measure B provides an exemption for property owners
65 and older by applying to the District.

The excellent education provided by our schools has been a cornerstone for generations of Kentfield
and Greenbrae students and families. Please join us in extending that foundation of excellence by
voting yes on Measure B.

S/ADAM BAUMGARTEN, M.D.

s/GAVIN NEWSOM

Clerk of the Board of Trustees of the Kentfield School District

s/ ELIZABETH SCHOTT
Superintendent Kentfield School District

EXHIBIT A

BALLOT MEASURE
FULL TEXT OF MEASURE

INTRODUCTION

To ensure excellence in Kentfield's public education by supporting superior core programs, attracting
and retaining highly-qualified teachers, maintaining small class sizes, and enhancing enrichment
programs, shall the Kentfield School District be authorized to levy $1600 per parcel annually for ten
(10) years, increase rates by 5% per year, provide a senior citizens' exemption, implement an annual
financial audit, and have all funds stay local?

STATEMENT OF PURPOSES

To provide local revenue that cannot be taken by the State and to aid in maintaining public education
in our schools, the Kentfield School District proposes to levy and collect a qualified special parcel tax
as described below (see "SPECIAL TAX AND PROCEDURES" below), and to implement accountability
measures in connection with the special parcel tax to provide oversight and accountability to ensure
that funds are used to:

•	Ensure excellence in core academic programs;

•	Attract and retain highly qualified teachers;

•	Maintain small class sizes; and

•	Enhance enrichment programs.

The Board of Trustees will utilize parcel tax proceeds for the purposes listed above, unless the Board of
Trustees determines in any given year that changes in student population, fiscal constraints, or other
changes in state or federal funding make doing so unfeasible or inadvisable. In any event, the Board
of Trustees will not fund any program or reduction other than those listed above from the proceeds of
the special parcel taxes.

SPECIAL TAX AND PROCEDURES

Special Tax Generally. Subject to two-thirds approval of the voters, the special tax of $1600 per
parcel, with an annual 5% rate increase, shall be levied and collected for a period often (10) years,

requirement that the proceeds be applied only to the specific purposes identified, (c) the creation of
an account into which the proceeds shall be deposited, and (d) an annual report pursuant to
Government Code Section 50075.3 as provided in Section 7 hereof. Such accountability measures
shall be set forth on the ballot in the form of Exhibit A attached hereto and incorporated herein by
reference.

Section 7. Annual Report. Pursuant to Government Code Section 50075.3, the Board directs the
chief fiscal officer of the District to file a report with the Board each year containing (a) the amount of
funds collected and expended and (b) the status of any project required or authorized to be funded as
identified in Section 6(a) hereof.

Section 8. Delivery of this Resolution. The Clerk of the Board is hereby directed to send a copy of
this Resolution to the Marin County Superintendent of Schools, the Marin County Registrar of Voters
(the "County Registrar") and the Marin County Clerk of the Board of Supervisors.

Section 9. Consolidation of Election. The County Registrar and the Marin County Board of
Supervisors are hereby requested to consolidate the election ordered hereby with any and all other
elections to be held on November 8, 2016, within the District.

Section 10. Ballot Arguments. Any and all members of this Board are hereby authorized to act as
an author of any ballot argument prepared in connection with the election, including a rebuttal
argument. The Superintendent, President of the Board, or their designees, are hereby authorized to
execute any document and to perform all acts necessary to place the measure on the ballot.

Section 11. Notice of Election. That the Marin County Registrar of Voters is hereby requested to
prepare a formal Notice of Qualified Special Tax Election in time, form and manner as required by law.
The suggested form of notice of the election is as follows:

KENTFIELD SCHOOL DISTRICT

SPECIAL ELECTION NOTICE

NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN to the qualified electors of the Kentfield School District (the "District") of
Marin County, that in accordance with law, an election will be held on Tuesday, the 8th of November,
2016 in the District, at which election there will be submitted the question of levying a qualified
special tax of $1600 annually for (ten) 10 years, with an annual 5% rate increase, on each nonexempt
parcel of land in the District for the purpose of raising money for the cost of public education, and

exempting seniors.

Section 12. Printing. The Marin County Elections Department is requested to print the attached
measure text exactly as filed in the Voter's Information Pamphlet section of the Sample Ballot for the

commencing July 1, 2019, and be collected by the Marin County Tax Collector at the same time as and
along with, and shall be subject to the same penalties as general ad valorem taxes collected by said
tax collector.

Definition of Parcel. A parcel is defined as any unit of land in the District that receives a separate tax
bill from the Marin County Tax Collector. However, with respect to any parcel that is classified by the
Marin County Assessor as a timeshare property, for the purposes of levying and collecting the special
tax against such parcels, to the extent permitted by law such levy shall be set in amount proportional
to the percentage of the year owned by said timeshare.

Exemptions. The following exemptions shall apply to the levy of the qualified special tax.

•	Otherwise Exempt Property. All property that would otherwise be exempt from property taxes
shall also be exempt from the parcel tax.

•	Senior Citizen Exemption. An exemption shall be available to persons who are 65 years or
older and own and occupy as a principal residence a parcel subject to the parcel tax.

Exclusive Procedures. The procedures described herein with respect to the levy and collection of the

special tax and exemptions, and any additional procedures established by the Board of Trustees, shall

be the exclusive claims procedure for claimants seeking an exemption, refund, reduction, or

re-computation of the special parcel tax. Whether any particular claim is to be resolved by the District

or by the County shall be determined by the District, in coordination with the County as necessary.

The District's Board of Trustees shall adopt such additional or supplemental procedures as it deems

necessary or convenient for the administration of the qualified special tax.

ACCOUNTABILITY MEASURES

Legally Required Accountability Measures. In accordance with the requirements of California
Government Code sections 50075.1 and 50075.3, the following accountability measures, among
others, shall apply to the special parcel taxes levied in accordance with this Measure: (a) the specific
purposes of the special parcel tax shall be only those purposes identified above; (b) the proceeds of
the special parcel tax shall be applied only to those specific purposes identified above; (c) a separate,
special account shall be created into which the proceeds of the special parcel taxes must be deposited;
and (d) an annual written report shall be made by the District's chief fiscal officer to the Board of
Trustees of the District showing (i) the amount of funds collected and expended from the proceeds of
the special taxes and (ii) the status of any projects, programs, or purposes required or authorized to
be funded from the proceeds of the special taxes, as identified above.

PROTECTION OF FUNDING

Current law forbids any decrease in State or Federal funding to the District because of the District's
adoption of a parcel tax. However, if any such funds are reduced because of the adoption of this parcel

November 8, 2016 election. Cost of printing and distribution of the measure text will be paid for by the
District.

Section 13. Reimbursement for Services Performed. The Kentfield School District agrees to
reimburse Marin County Registrar of Voters for services performed when work is completed on the
election upon presentation of a bill.

Section 14. Election Pursuant to Law. In all particulars not recited in this Resolution, said election
shall be held and conducted as provided by law for holding school district elections in the District.

Section 15. Certification by Clerk of the Board. That the Clerk of the Board shall certify to the
passage and adoption of and shall make minutes of the passage and adoption therefore in the records
of the proceedings of the Board of Trustees of the District, in the minutes of the meeting at which the
same is passed and adopted.

ADOPTED, SIGNED AND APPROVED this 31st day of May, 2016.

s/JULI KAUFFMAN

President

Board of Trustees of the Kentfield School District
ATTEST:

s/ASHLEY F. PAFF

Clerk of the Board of Trustees

STATE OF CALIFORNIA)

)ss.

COUNTY OF MARIN )

I, Ashley F. Paff, Clerk of the Board of Trustees of the Kentfield School District, do hereby certify that
the foregoing Resolution was duly adopted by the Board of Trustees of said District at a regular
meeting thereof held on the 31st day of May, 2016, and that it was so adopted by the following vote:

AYES: 5

NOES: 0

ABSENT: 0

ABSTAIN: 0

s/ASHLEY F. PAFF

tax, then the amount of the special parcel taxes will be reduced annually as necessary in order to
restore such State or Federal funding.

SEVERABILITY

The Board of Trustees of the District hereby declares, and the voters by approving this measure
concur, that every section, paragraph, sentence and clause of this measure has independent value,
and the Board of Trustees and the voters would have adopted each provision hereof regardless of
every other provision hereof. Upon approval of this measure by the voters, should any part be found
by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, all remaining parts hereof shall
remain in full force and effect to the fullest extent allowed by law.

EXHIBIT B

BALLOT MEASURE
ABBREVIATED FORM*

To provide stable funding the State cannot take away, ensure excellence in core academic programs,
attract and retain highly-qualified teachers, maintain small class sizes, and enhance enrichment
programs, shall the Kentfield School District be authorized to levy $1600 per parcel annually for ten
(10) years, with a 5% annual increase, provide a senior citizens' exemption, and have all funds stay
local?