Ballot Measures-V

Section

7

City of Costa Mesa, Allow Operation of up to Eight
V Medical Marijuana (Cannabis) Businesses in the City of
Costa Mesa

Shall the ordinance, to allow operation of up to eight medical marijuana (cannabis) businesses with: six percent tax on
medical marijuana (estimated annual tax revenues $48,000 to $912,000); one percent tax on other products; exemption
from permits; regulations not subject to change by City Council except for increasing businesses; precedence to prior
businesses; and locations limited to commercial and industrial areas, be adopted?

What your vote means	
YES	NO
A "Yes" is a vote to adopt an ordinance to allow operation of up to eight medical marijuana (cannabis) businesses, including dispensaries, with: six percent tax on medical marijuana (estimated annual tax revenues $48,000 to $912,000); one percent tax on other products; exemption from permits; regulations not subject to change by City Council except for increasing businesses; precedence to prior businesses; and locations limited to commercial and industrial areas.	A "No" is a vote to not to adopt the ordinance proposed by the measure to Allow Operation of up to Eight Licensed Medical Marijuana (Cannabis) Businesses in the City of Costa Mesa.

For and against

FOR	AGAINST
Robert Taft	Robert Taft
Proponent/Sponsor of the Measure "V."	Proponent of Measure V
Natalie Dragotto	Randall T. Longwith
Mother of 11-year-old child with epilepsy	Drafter of Measure V
Randall T. Longwith	Jim Righeimer
Drafter of the Measure "V."	Mayor Pro Tern, City of Costa Mesa

Ballot Measures-V

Full Text of Measure V
City of Costa Mesa

MEDICAL CANNABIS CONTROL ACT

Section

7

Section 1 - Title

This initiative shall be known and may be cited as The Medical Cannabis Control Act.

Section 2 - Findings and Declarations

Pursuant to, and consistent with the current California law concerning medical cannabis, the City of Costa Mesa shall enact an ordinance
creating Title 9, Chapter VI of the Costa Mesa Municipal Code, and amend in its entirety Title 13, Chapter 1, Article 2, Section 13-6, and amending
Row 31(a) of Title 13, Chapter 4, section 13-30, and amending Title 9, Chapter 1, Article 5, Section 9-32 of the Costa Mesa Municipal Code, in order to
authorize the establishment of medical cannabis businesses, to restrict and limit such medical cannabis businesses by imposing strict regulations on
such businesses to protect the health, safety, and welfare of the community;

WHEREAS, the Compassionate Use Act ("CUA"), adopted by California voters in 1996, and the Medical Marijuana Program Act ("MMPA"), enacted
by the State Legislature in 2003, decriminalized the cultivation and use of marijuana by seriously ill individuals upon a physician's recommendation and
provided California's qualified patients and their primary caregivers with specified immunities under state law, thereby helping to ensure that qualified
patients and their primary caregivers, who possess and use marijuana for medical purposes, are not subject to criminal prosecution and/or sanction;

WHEREAS, the Costa Mesa Police Department ("CMPD") has reported that the number of marijuana dispensaries and commercial growing
operations proliferated though out the City in the past without sufficient legal oversight, the City and its neighborhoods have experienced negative
secondary effects, including an increase in crime at certain locations associated with unregulated medical cannabis businesses;

WHEREAS, there presently are no ordinances in the City of Costa Mesa specifically regulating or monitoring the location, zoning standards, or
other aspects of the locations and facilities where medical cannabis will be dispensed to eligible persons under state law;

WHEREAS, medical cannabis businesses must operate with reasonable regulation, to ensure that those seriously ill residents of the City benefit
from the palliative effects of medical cannabis have access they are provided under state law;

WHEREAS, by implementing a fair and reasonable registration process for medical cannabis businesses, the City will be able to maintain order
while avoiding undue burdens on its already strained financial resources;

WHEREAS, the City has a substantial and clear interest in ensuring that medical cannabis is distributed in an orderly manner, and in protecting
the public health, safety and welfare of its residents, its businesses, the neighborhoods in which medical cannabis businesses operate, while ensuring
compassionate access to seriously ill residents to medical cannabis in accordance with the CUA and the MM PA;

WHEREAS, the regulations in this initiative do not interfere with a qualified patient's right to use medical cannabis as authorized under California
law, nor do they criminalize the possession or cultivation of medical cannabis by specifically defined classifications of persons, as authorized under
California law;

WHEREAS, medical cannabis businesses shall comply with all provisions of the Costa Mesa Municipal Code ("Code"), California law, and all
other applicable local laws; nothing in this initiative purports to permit activities that are otherwise illegal under state or local law;

WHEREAS, this initiative is not intended to conflict with federal or state law, nor is it intended to respond to or invite litigation over any
unresolved legal questions posed by the California Attorney General or by case law regarding the scope and application of state law; it is intended
that this initiative be interpreted to be compatible with federal and state enactments and in furtherance of the public purposes that those enactments
encompass;

WHEREAS, the People of the City of Costa Mesa find that nonprofit medical cannabis businesses which operate in full compliance with the
State Compassionate Use Act, the Medical Marijuana Program Act, and the Attorney General Guidelines demonstrate a willingness to engage in lawful
activity which benefits economic costs associated with the City of Costa Mesa's local regulation and enforcement efforts;

WHEREAS, to that end, the People of Costa Mesa further find that those nonprofit medial marijuana businesses, as set forth in the above
paragraph, have been precluded from operation in the City of Costa Mesa due to the inability to obtain a business license under the City of Costa Mesa's
Municipal Code. Those medical cannabis businesses who never operated in in Costa Mesa without a business license yet have or have attempted to
comply with the Compassionate Use Act, the Medical Marijuana Program Act, the Attorney General's Guidelines, and the Costa Mesa Municipal Code
by applying for a business license and when denied did not violate the law and commence operation of a medical cannabis business illegally should be
given a preference for obtaining "Priority Registration" status as that term is herein defined, to operate under Title 9, Chapter VI.

WHEREAS, the People of the City of Costa Mesa recognize that an ordinance proposed by a voter initiative and adopted by a vote of the People
cannot be repealed or amended, except by a vote of the People pursuant to the California Constitution, Article 2, Section 10;

WHEREAS, the People of the City of Costa Mesa further find and declare that this initiative is enacted pursuant to the powers reserved to
the State of California, the City of Costa Mesa, and its People under the Tenth Amendment of the United States Constitution, Article 2 of the California
Constitution, and the California Health and Safety Code Sections 11362.5 and 11362.7 etseq.

NOW, THEREFORE, the People of the City of Costa Mesa ordain as follows:

SECTION 3 - Amendment to the Costa Mesa Municipal Code to Add Title 9, Chapter VI.

The People of the City of Costa Mesa do hereby enact and ordain that Title 9 of the Costa Mesa Municipal Code, entitled Licenses and Business
Regulations, is hereby amended to add Chapter VI to read as follows: (Any underlined language is new and shall be inserted into the Chapter)

Ballot Measures-V

CHAPTER VI. - MEDICAL CANNABIS BUSINESSES

9-481	Authority and title
9-482	Release of Liability and hold harmless
9-483	Purpose and intent
9-484	Phvsicians/patient confidentiality
9-485	Definitions
9-486	Medical cannabis businesses prohibited
9-487	Limited immunity
9-487.1	ODerational requirements
9-488	Cultivation of medical cannabis
9-489	Transportation of medical cannabis
9-490	Violation and enforcement
9-491	Majority approval: effective date
9-492	Competina measures.
9-493	Amendment and repeal.
9-494	Severability.
9-495	Statewide reaulation.
9-496	Special or aeneral election.

Section

7

SEC. 9-481 Authority and title.

Pursuant to the authority granted by the California Constitution. Article 2 and California Health and Safety Code Sections 11362 and 11362.7
et seq.. the People of the City of Costa Mesa do enact this Chapter, which shall be known and may be cited as "The Medical Cannabis Control Act".

SEC. 9-482 - Release of Liability and hold harmless.

To the fullest extent permitted by law, the City of Costa Mesa shall assume no liability whatsoever, and expressly does not waive sovereign
immunity, with respect to the medical cannabis business program established herein, or for the activities of any medical cannabis business.

Each medical cannabis business recognized by the city shall

a.	Release the city, its agents, officers, elected officials, and employees from any injuries, damages, or liabilities of any kind that result
from any arrest or prosecution of the medical cannabis provider association or its participants for a violation of state or federal law.

b.	Indemnify and hold harmless the City, its agents, officers, elected officers, and employees for any claims, damages, or injuries
brought bv adjacent or nearby property owners or other third parties due to the operations at the medical cannabis business and
or premises; and

c.	Indemnify and hold harmless the City, its agents, officers, elected officials, and employees for any claims, damages, or injuries
brought bv any of its participants for problems, injuries, damages, or liabilities of any kind that may arise out of the distribution,
cultivation and/or use of medical cannabis provided at the medical cannabis business and/or premises.

SEC. 9-483 - Purpose and intent.

It is the purpose and intent of this Article to limit the maximum number and concentration of medical cannabis businesses in the City, to provide
needed tax revenue to the City, and to regulate the operation of medical cannabis businesses in order to ensure the health, safety and welfare of the
residents of the City of Costa Mesa. The regulations in this Chapter, in compliance with the Compassionate Use Act, the Medical Marijuana Program
Act, and the California Health and Safety Code do not interfere with a qualified patient's right to use medical cannabis as authorized under California
law, nor do they criminalize the possession or cultivation of medical cannabis bv specifically defined classifications of persons, as authorized under
California law.

Medical cannabis businesses shall comply with all provisions of the Costa Mesa Municipal Code ("Code") and California laws. Nothing in this
Article purports to permit activities that are otherwise illegal under federal, state or local law. This Article is not intended to conflict with federal or
state law, nor is this Article intended to respond to or invite litigation over any unresolved legal questions posed bv the California Attorney General
or bv case law regarding the scope and application of state law. It is intended that this Article be interpreted to be compatible with federal and state
enactments and in furtherance of the public purposes that those enactments encompass.

SEC. 9-484 - Phvsician/Patient confidentiality

Requirements set forth pursuant to this Chapter shall preserve to the maximum extent possible all legal protections and privileges, consistent
with reasonably verifying the qualifications and status of qualified patients and primary caregivers. Disclosure of any patient information to assert facts
in support of qualified status shall not be deemed a waiver of confidentiality of that information.

SEC. 9-485. Definitions.

A. The following phrases and words, when used in this section, shall be construed as defined below. Words and phrases not defined here shall be
construed as defined in Costa Mesa municipal code or state law.

"Building" means any structure having a roof supported bv columns or walls, for the housing, shelter or enclosure of persons, animals, chattels, or
property of any kind.

"Cannabis" or "marijuana" shall be construed as defined in California Health and Safety Code Section 11018 and further shall specifically include
any product that contains marijuana or a derivative of marijuana and all parts of the plant cannabis, whether growing or not; the seeds thereof: the
resin extracted from any part of the plant; and every compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of the plant, its seeds or resin.
It includes marijuana infused in foodstuff. It does not include the mature stalks of the plant, fiber produced from the stalks, oil or cake made from

Section

Ballot Measures-V	7

the seeds of the plant, any other compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of the mature stalks (except the resin extracted
therefrom), fiber, oil, or cake, or the sterilized seeds of the plant are incapable of germination.

"Collectives" and "cooperatives" when referring to medical cannabis organizations, both mean associations of five or more qualified patients, persons
with identification cards, or primary caregivers of qualified patients and persons with identification cards, who associate, as an incorporated or
unincorporated association, to collectively or cooperatively cultivate and distribute medical cannabis for use exclusively bv their registered members,
in strict accordance with California Health and Safety Code sections 11362.5 and 11362.7 et seq.

"Cultivation" means the planting, growing, harvesting, drying, processing, or storage of one or more marijuana plants or any part thereof in any
location, indoor or outdoor, including from within a fully enclosed an secure building.

"Edible products" means marijuana cultivated bv medical cannabis businesses, and participants thereof, that is made available in an edible form and
prepared in a certified kitchen meeting all the applicable health requirements to be used and ingested solely bv qualified patient participants as part
of their medical regime, in strict accordance with state law.

"Felony Conviction" means any conviction, whether bv guilty plea, judicial ruling, or jury verdict, of any felony offense. A conviction of a felony offense
that has been dismissed, withdrawn, expunged, or set aside, whether pursuant to California Penal Code section 1203.4. California Penal Code section
1000. California Penal Code section 1385. the interest of justice, or any other judicial ruling, or agreement of the prosecution, shall not be deemed a
felony conviction.

"Live Scan" means a system for inkless electronic fingerprinting and the automated background check developed bv the California Department
of Justice ("DOJ") which involves digitizing fingerprints and electronically transmitting the fingerprint image data along with personal descriptor
information to computers at the DOJ for completion of a criminal record check: or such other comparable inkless electronic fingerprinting.

"Location" means any parcel of land, whether vacant or occupied bv a building, group of buildings, or accessory buildings, and includes the buildings,
structures, yards, open spaces, lot width, and lot area.

"Manager" means any person with responsibility for the establishment, organization, registration, supervision, or oversight of a medical cannabis
business, including but not limited to any person who performs the functions of president, vice president, board member, director, owner, operating
officer, financial officer, secretary, or treasurer of the medical cannabis business.

"Medical cannabis" and "medical Marijuana" means cannabis that is grown, used, and distributed pursuant to the provisions of California Health and
Safety Code sections 11362.5 and 11362.7-11362.83. including all cannabis products, infusions, and concentrates containing the active ingredients
of the cannabis plant.

"Medical cannabis businesses" means the following: an unincorporated or incorporated entity or association of qualified patients and/or primary
caregivers and/or persons with identification cards, who provide money and in-kind contributions, reimbursements, and reasonable compensation
towards the aforementioned entity's actual expenses for activities including, but not limited to: planting, cultivation, harvesting, transporting,
manufacturing, compounding, converting, processing, preparing, storing, packaging, providing and/or retail sales of medical cannabis. A medical
cannabis business may provide medical cannabis, products, services and assistance to qualified patients, persons with a medical cannabis identification
card (as set forth in the MMPA). or the primary caregiver of such persons. Medical cannabis businesses may assist with the acquisition of skills necessary
to cultivate or provide marijuana for medical purposes in compliance with State Law. A medical cannabis business includes any facility, building,
structure or location, whether permanent, or temporary, where marijuana is made available, sold, given away, distributed, or otherwise provided in
accordance with Health and Safety Code section 11362.5 et seq. A medical cannabis business includes medical cannabis collectives, cooperatives,
dispensaries, cultivations, and marijuana delivery services. Medical Cannabis businesses include "medical marijuana businesses"

(1) "Medical cannabis business" shall not include, nor be interpreted to include, any of the following:

a.	Any location which is a legal dwelling zoned exclusively for residential use and not permitted for any commercial activity where
three (3) or less people who reside at a property cultivate marijuana.

b.	The location of any clinic licensed pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 1200). a health care facility licensed
pursuant to Chapter 2 (commencing with Section 1250). a residential care facility for persons with chronic life-threatening illness
licensed pursuant to Chapter 3.01 (commencing with Section 1568.01). a residential care facility for the elderly licensed pursuant
to Chapter 3.2 (commencing with Section 1569). a hospice, or a home health agency licensed pursuant to Chapter 8 (commencing
with Section 1725). any facility specified in Division 2 of the California Health and Safety Code where: (i) a qualified patient or person
with an identification card receives medical care or supportive services, or both, from the clinic, facility, hospice, or home health
agency; and (ii) the owner or operator, or one of not more than three employees designated bv the owner or operator, of the clinic,
facility, hospice, or home health agency has been designated as a primary caregiver pursuant to California Health and Safety Code
Section 11362.7(d) bv that qualified patient or person with an identification card.

"Medical cannabis identification card" "Medical marijuana identification card." and "identification card" mean a document issued bv the State
Department of Health Services pursuant to California Health and Safety Code sections 11362.7 et seq. that identifies a person authorized to engage in
the medical use of cannabis and the person's designated primary caregiver, if any, or identifies a person as a primary caregiver for a medical cannabis
patient

"Premises" means the space in any buildings of a medical cannabis business together with the spaces within any structures, yards, open spaces, lot
width, and lot area at a location that is occupied or used in the operation of the medical cannabis business.

"Reasonable compensation" means compensation commensurate with reasonable wages and benefits paid to employees of IRS-qualified non-profit
organizations who have similar job descriptions and duties, required level of education and experience, prior individual earnings history, and number
of hours worked.

Structure'

Ballot Measures-V

means anything constructed or erected which is supported directly or indirectly on the ground, but not including any vehicle.

Section

7

"Vehicle" means a conveyance or device bv which any person or property may be propelled, moved, or drawn upon a street, sidewalk or waterway,
including but not limited to a device moved exclusively by human power.

B. The following words or phrases when used in this section shall be construed as defined in California Health and Safety Code Sections 1746.
11362.5, and 11362.7.

"Hospice"; "Identification card": "Person with an identification card;" "Primary caregiver"; and "Qualified patient."

SEC. 9-486. Medical cannabis businesses prohibited.

A.	It shall be unlawful to own, establish, operate, use, or permit the establishment or operation of a medical cannabis business, or to participate
as an employee, contractor, agent, volunteer, or in any manner or capacity other than as provided in this Chapter.

B.	The general prohibition contained in this section shall include renting, leasing, or otherwise permitting a medical cannabis business to occupy
or use a location, vehicle, or other mode of transportation.

SEC. 9-487. Limited immunity.

A medical cannabis business shall be immune to the prohibition set out in Section 9-486 and the remedies set forth in Costa Mesa Municipal
Code, including criminal prosecution, so long as that medical cannabis business obtains a Business License for the operation of a medical
cannabis business from the City, through the Treasury Division Management Department and/or City Tax Collector, as well as complies with all
operational requirements provided in this section.

A.	Business License.

1.	The City Tax Collector and/or The City Treasury Division Management Department shall issue a business license for a medical cannabis
business that meets priority registration or non-prioritv registration requirements detailed below in this section.

a. Priority Registration.

i.	Beginning on the date that is thirty (30) days after the effective date of this ordinance, and lasting for ten (10)
business days, a medical cannabis business may submit a priority registration application and obtain a business
license for the purpose of operating a medical cannabis business from the City of Costa Mesa if. on or before May 30.
2014. such applicant:

(a)	Has never operated a medical cannabis or medical marijuana business in the city of Costa Mesa, has never
been convicted of operating a medical cannabis business, or never been civilly adjudicated of operating a
medical cannabis business or medical marijuana business without a business license in the City of Costa
Mesa:

a. The lack of any court record of a citation conviction or civil adjudication bv the city shall be sufficient
proof to satisfy that applicant has not operated a medical cannabis business in the City of Costa
Mesa.

(b)	Has been issued a business license or has applied for a business license from the City of Costa Mesa for a
medical cannabis business or medical marijuana business:

a. Proof of application or attempt to apply for a Costa Mesa business license for the purpose of a
medical cannabis business or medical marijuana business shall be satisfied bv any competent
verifiable documentation, including, but not limited to. a date stamped business license application
from the City, a filed application, a copy of a denial letter for a medical cannabis business from City
of Costa Mesa or a dated copy of an application for a medical cannabis business license along with
some proof that a mailing was sent to the City of Costa Mesa. Treasury Management Division. P.O.
Box 1200. Costa Mesa. CA 92628-1200 within seven (7) days of the signing of the application, or
any documentation stamped "Received" bv the city including, but not limited to. a printout of City, of
Costa Mesa Land Use Matrix Table 13-30 or a copy of a received stamped copy of a business card of
a senior planner for the City of Costa Mesa.

(c)	Has filed for Incorporation, filed Chapters of Association for a limited liability company, or articles of
organization with the Secretary of State of California for the purpose of operating a non-profit medical
cannabis business or medical marijuana business.

a. Proof of incorporation, articles of association, or limited company status shall be satisfied bv a
true and correct copy of the articles of incorporation filed with the Secretary of State. Chapters of
Association or any other competent verifiable documentation;

(d)	Possesses or has applied for a Seller's Permit from the State Board of Equalization in the name of the
business.

(e)	Possesses or has applied for a License to Sell Nursery Stock in the City of Costa Mesa which was applied for
or issued bv the Department of Food and Agriculture;

(f)	Has applied for a Live Scan background check;

(g)	Possesses a physician's medical cannabis or medical marijuana recommendation pursuant to California
Health and Safety Code section 11362 et. sec:.

(h)	Possess or has applied for a medical marijuana identification card pursuant to Health and Safety Code
Section 11362.7 et sec.:

Section

Ballot Measures-V	7

(i)	Possesses or has applied for a general liability insurance policy (bodily injury, property damage, and medical
cannabis liability), which specifically includes liability for medical cannabis and/or medical marijuana.

a. Proof of application for a general liability insurance policy, which specifically includes liability for medical
cannabis and/or medical marijuana may be shown by a quote from an insurance company or any other
verifiable documentation.

(j)	The applicant possesses a notarized, signed, and dated authorization to submit to fingerprinting and
photographing and authorizing the City in writing to obtain information from criminal justice agencies,
financial institutions. Federal. State and local government agencies, and other persons and entities. The
written authorization shall include consent to release the information to the City for use in connection with
the business license.

(k)	The applicant possesses a notarized, signed, and dated statement indicating to the City that the applicant
will hold harmless, indemnify, and defend the City against all claims and litigation arising from the issuance
of a licenses, including any claims and litigation arising from the establishment, operation, or ownership of
the medical cannabis establishment.

b. Non-Priority Registration:

i.	Beginning on the date that is thirty (30) days after the effective date of this ordinance plus ten (10) business days, any
medical cannabis business may submit a non-prioritv registration application to the Treasury Division Management
Department and/or City Tax Collector for a business license provided the medical cannabis business meets the
following criteria:

(a)	Has never operated a medical cannabis or medical marijuana business in the city of Costa Mesa, has never
been convicted of operating a medical cannabis business, or never been civilly adjudicated of operating a
medical cannabis business or medical marijuana business without a business license in the City of Costa
Mesa:

a. The lack of any court record of a citation conviction or civil adjudication bv the city shall be sufficient
proof to satisfy that applicant has not operated a medical cannabis business in the City of Costa
Mesa.

(b)	Has been issued a business license or has applied for a business license from the City of Costa Mesa for a
medical cannabis business or medical marijuana business:

a. Proof of application or attempt to apply for a Costa Mesa business license for the purpose of a
medical cannabis or medical marijuana business shall be satisfied bv any competent verifiable
documentation, including, but not limited to. a date stamped business license application from the
City, a filed application, a copy of a denial letter for a medical marijuana business from City of Costa
Mesa or a dated copy of an application for a medical cannabis business license along with some
proof that a mailing was sent to the City of Costa Mesa. Treasury Management Division. P.O. Box
1200. Costa Mesa. CA 92628-1200 within seven (7) days of the signing of the application, or any
documentation stamped "Received" bv the city including, but not limited to. a printout of City, of
Costa Mesa Land Use Matrix Table 13-30 or a copy of a received stamped copy of a business card of
a senior planner for the City of Costa Mesa.

(c)	Has filed for Incorporation, filed Chapters of Association for a limited liability company, or articles of
organization with the Secretary of State of California for the purpose of operating a non-profit medical
marijuana business:

a. Proof of incorporation, articles of association, or limited company status shall be satisfied bv a
true and correct copy of the articles of incorporation filed with the Secretary of State. Chapters of
Association or any other competent verifiable documentation:

(d)	Possesses or has applied for a Seller's Permit from the State Board of Equalization in the name of the
business.

(e)	Possesses or has applied for a License to Sell Nursery Stock for the City of Costa Mesa which was applied for
or issued bv the Department of Food and Agriculture:

(f)	Has applied for a Live Scan background check:

(g)	Possesses a physician's medical cannabis or medical marijuana recommendation pursuant to California
Health and Safety Code section 11362 et. sec.:

(h)	Possess or has applied for a medical marijuana identification card pursuant to Health and Safety Code
Section 11362.7 et sec.

(i)	Possesses or has applied for a general liability insurance policy (bodily injury, property damage, and medical
cannabis liability), which specifically includes liability for medical cannabis and/or medical marijuana.

a. Proof of application for a general liability insurance policy, which specifically includes liability for medical
cannabis and/or medical marijuana may be shown bv a quote from an insurance company or any other
verifiable documentation.

(j)	The applicant possesses a notarized, signed, and dated authorization to submit to fingerprinting and
photographing and authorizing the City in writing to obtain information from criminal justice agencies,
financial institutions. Federal. State and local government agencies, and other persons and entities. The
written authorization shall include consent to release the information to the City for use in connection with
the business license.

(k)	The applicant possesses a notarized, signed, and dated statement indicating to the City that the applicant
will hold harmless, indemnify, and defend the City against all claims and litigation arising from the issuance

Section

Ballot Measures-V	7

of a licenses, including any claims and litigation arising from the establishment, operation, or ownership of
the medical cannabis establishment.

c.	The Tax Collector or City shall issue a business license or a rejection, with a written explanation, to an applicant within 45
days of the applicant's written request for a business license. The failure of the Tax Collector to issue a business license
within the 45 day period shall be deemed an acceptance of the application for the business license and the medical cannabis
business shall be permitted to operate.

d.	The business license shall be valid for two (2) years, irrespective of whether or not the business is active operating during
that period. An application for renewal of a medical cannabis business license must be filed no later than thirty (30) calendar
days prior to the expiration of the registration, but no earlier than sixty (60) calendar days prior to the expiration of the
registration. A registration shall be renewed for an additional period of two (2) years by submitting an application to the Tax
Collector or City.

e.	The fee required for application and registration for a medical cannabis business license shall not exceed five hundred
dollars ($500.00).

2.	No permit required: The People of the City of Costa Mesa hereby declare that the operation of a medical cannabis dispensary in compliance
with this Chapter is not detrimental to the public health, safety, welfare, or moral standards of the City. As such, the City shall not require the
medical cannabis business to obtain any special use permit, conditional use permit, or any other permit pursuant to any section of this code,
specifically, but not limited to. Sections 9-33 and 9-114. as a condition president or condition subsequent to obtaining a business license
and/or business tax registration certificate. Additionally, no special site plan, variance, or any other permit or certificate shall be required
for a medical cannabis business, other than those specified in this Chapter.

3.	Business tax registration certificate — Transfer: Notwithstanding Section 9-44. Medical Cannabis Business licenses shall be transferable
only so long as the medical cannabis business taxed is transferred, whether by sale or otherwise, to another person or entity under such
circumstances that the real or ultimate ownership of the business after the transfer is substantially similar to the real or ultimate ownership
existing before the transfer and the transferee meets all the non-priority registration requirements listed in Subsections (a) through (f) of
Section 9-487(A.)(l.)(b.)(i.).

4.	Maximum number of businesses: City shall issue no more than eight (8) business licenses for the operation of medical cannabis
businesses, subject to Subsections 4(a) below. If the number of certified medical cannabis businesses falls below nine (9). then the City
shall issue additional business licenses pursuant to the terms of this Chapter.

a. City council shall have the discretion to increase but not decrease the number of business licenses issued by the Tax
Collector. City Treasury Division Management Department, or City to medical cannabis businesses pursuant to the terms of
this Chapter.

5.	Any such exercise of discretion under Section 4(a) above increasing the number of new business licenses above the current maximum
number of nine (9) shall comply with the minimum non-prioritv registration standards enumerated in in Subsections (a) through (f) of
Section 9-487(A.)(l.)(b.)(i.).

SEC. 9-487.1. Operational requirements.

A medical cannabis business shall be immune to the prohibition set out in Section 9-486 and the remedies set forth in Costa Mesa Municipal
Code, so long as that medical cannabis business obtains a business license and complies with the following operational requirements:

1.	Safe radius restrictions: The medical cannabis business is not located within:

i.	A 600-foot radius of a public school as defined under Health and Safety Code §11362.768 (h):

ii.	The distances specified in this paragraph shall be the horizontal distance measured in a straight line from the property line of the school
to the property line of the medical cannabis business without regard to intervening structures:

iii.	Medical cannabis businesses shall be permitted in the following use districts or zones in the City: AP. CL. C2. Cl-S. MG. MP. PDC. PDI. Cl.
& TC. Medical cannabis businesses are prohibited in all other use districts or zones.

2.	Non-concentration of businesses requirement: The medical cannabis businesses shall be disbursed in accordance with the following:

i.	A marijuana business shall not be located within a 1000-foot radius of any other licensed medical cannabis business.

ii.	The distances specified in this paragraph shall be the horizontal distance measured in a straight line from the property line of the first
licensed medical cannabis business to the closest property line of the second medical cannabis business without regard to intervening
structures:

3.	Delivery restrictions: The medical cannabis business shall not deliver marijuana to its members within the City of Costa Mesa unless the
medical cannabis business maintains insurance for its managers, volunteers or employees who deliver the marijuana and the medical cannabis
business maintains a location within the City of Costa Mesa which possesses a business license under this Chapter.

4.	License requirements: The medical cannabis business shall maintain a valid state Board of Equalization state Seller's permit in the name of
the business.

5.	Insurance Requirement: The medical cannabis business shall possesses a commercial general liability insurance policy (bodily injury, property
damage, and medical cannabis liability), which specifically includes liability for medical cannabis.

6.	Restriction of minors on premises: The medical cannabis business shall not allow minors under the age of 18 years to enter its premises

Section

Ballot Measures-V	7

during any hours of operation.

7.	Restriction of minors as employees: It shall be unlawful for any medical cannabis business to employ any person who is not at least 18 years of age.

8.	Restriction on hours of operation: Hours of operation are limited to the hours between 9 a.m. and 10 p.m.. seven days a week.

9.	Visible marijuana restrictions: Any marijuana within a medical cannabis business shall not be visible with the naked eve from the exterior of
the business's premises.

10.	Alcohol restrictions: The medical cannabis business shall prohibit the sale, dispensing, or consumption of alcoholic beverages at its location,
in the parking area of the location, or within fifty (50) feet of the business.

11.	Premises use restrictions: The medical cannabis business shall not allow any persons to inhale, smoke, eat, ingest, or otherwise consume
marijuana at the location, in the parking areas of the location, within fifty (50) feet of the premises, or in those areas restricted under the
provisions of California Health and Safety Code section 11362.79. This prohibition shall not apply to a qualified patient's use of marijuana
for his or her own medical needs if the qualified patient's permanent legal residence is at the medical cannabis business's location, nor shall
this prohibition limit or conflict with the exceptions provided in local and state law that permit smoking in designated areas within licensed
residential medical and elder care facilities.

12.	Legal notice requirements: A sign shall be posted inside the medical cannabis businesses stating substantially as follows: "The diversion of
cannabis for non-medical purposes is a violation of State Law. Loitering at the location of a medical cannabis dispensing or business for an
illegal purpose is prohibited by California Penal Code section 647(h). No medical cannabis shall be smoked, ingested or otherwise consumed
on the premises of the business or within fifty (50) feet of a medical cannabis business" Such sign shall be printed in 14-point font or larger
upon 8 V2 by 11 paper and posted at some conspicuous part of such site.

13.	Restrictions relating to cultivation, manufacturing, and processing: Medical cannabis businesses shall exchange, sell, transfer, and
distribute only marijuana or cannabis cultivated, manufactured, or processed in the State of California and that has not left the State before
arriving at the business and that has been cultivated only bv. and provided only to. its verified members in a closed-circuit of production and
consumption.

14.	Medicine inventory restrictions: The medical cannabis business may possess and cultivate a reasonable quantity of dried marijuana and
marijuana plants to meet the personal medical needs of their members.

15.	Employee background requirements: The medical cannabis business shall utilize the Live Scan background check system as set forth in this
Article prior to employing any manager, volunteer or employee. The medical cannabis businesses' managers must be registered members
of the medical cannabis business. Verification of all Live Scan applications received bv a medical cannabis business shall be processed and
received bv the Costa Mesa Police Department in accordance with California Department of Justice guidelines.

16.	Employee background restrictions: Prior to being offered a position of management or employment at a medical cannabis business, an
applicant for a position of manager, volunteer, or employee of the medical cannabis business who dispenses medical cannabis must submit
and successfully pass an annual Live Scan background check bv December 31 of each year in order to be employed at the medical cannabis
business. A failed Live Scan is any Live Scan that shows a felony conviction having occurred within the oast 7 years and/or shows that the
manager, volunteer or employee is currently on parole or probation for the sale or distribution of a controlled substance.

i. For the purposes of this section, a conviction of a felony that has been dismissed, withdrawn, expunged, or set aside, whether pursuant
to California Penal Code section 1203.4. California Penal Code section 1000. California Penal Code section 1385 or any other judicial
ruling or prosecution agreement, shall not be deemed a felony conviction and, consequently, shall not result in a failed Live Scan.

17.	Patient confidentiality: In order to protect confidentiality, the medical cannabis business may maintain records of all qualified patients with a
valid identification card and primary caregivers with a valid identification card using only the identification card number issued bv the State or
County pursuant to California Health and Safety Code section 11362.7. etseq.

18.	Manufacture of concentrated cannabis restrictions: The medical cannabis business shall not participate in or otherwise engage in the
manufacture of concentrated cannabis in violation of California Health and Safety Code section 11379.6.

19.	Security requirements: The medical cannabis business shall provide the following security measures:

i.	the medical cannabis business shall maintain an alarm system reasonably designed to ensure the safety of persons and to protect the
premises from theft:

ii.	the business shall provide a security guard patrol for the premises during all hours of operation:

iii.	the security guard patrol shall be a duly-licensed and uniformed security guard patrol.

20.	Packaging requirements: All medical cannabis businesses shall distribute all non-live marijuana in sealed packaging or in "Child Proof"
containers equipped with either a "Push or Turn". "Reversible" top vial, or "Pop Top" or "Squeeze Top" locking mechanism.

21.	Warning Labels requirements: All medical cannabis packaging shall contain a warning that the product contains marijuana, and it is to be
consumed only with a physician's recommendation.

22.	Signage restrictions: Outdoor signage on medical cannabis business premises shall comply with all City signage restrictions and shall not
contain pictorial representations of the marijuana plant or pictorial representations of marijuana use.

23.	Edible restrictions: Medical cannabis businesses that prepare, dispense or sell edible medical cannabis products, or food containing any
form of medical cannabis, must comply with and are subject to the provisions of all relevant state and local laws regarding the preparation.

Section

Ballot Measures-V	7

distribution, and sale of food. Failure to obtain and comply with all necessary permits related to the preparation, distribution, and sale of food
will be an express violation of this Chapter.

24.	Odor restrictions: A business shall have an air treatment filtration or ventilation system that reasonably prevents odors generated from the
storage of marijuana on the business property.

25. Taxation of medical cannabis businesses: The rate of sales tax and use tax imposed bv this Chapter shall be:

i.	Every person engaged in operating or otherwise conducting a medical cannabis busines not otherwise specifically taxed bv other
business tax provisions of this Chapter, shall pay a business tax of Six (6) percent or $60.00 for each $1000.00 of gross receipt or
fractional parts thereof on all proceeds from the distribution, sale, transfer of medical cannabis bv the operation of a medical cannabis
business

ii.	One (1) percent or $10.00 for each $1.000 on the sale of all other tangible personal property at retail.

iii.	For the purposes of this Section, the above taxes apply only prospectively. The city shall make no claim, current, retroactive, or
prospective for payment bv any medial marijuana business or any other City tax except for the City portion of any Sales Tax collected
bv the California State Board of Equalization.

iv.	For the purpose of this section, a "medical cannabis business" means any activity regulated or permitted bv Chapter VI of this Code
and California Health and Safety Code sections 11362.5. et seq.. that involves transporting, dispensing, delivering, providing or
manufacturing, compounding, converting, processing, preparing, storing, packaging, or testing harvesting of any part of the marijuana
plant for medical purposes.

Sec. 9-488. Cultivation of medical cannabis: Medical cannabis businesses may cultivate a reasonable amount of marijuana consistent with
their member patient's needs. All medical cannabis cultivation subject to this Chapter shall be concealed from public view at all stages of growth, and
there shall be no exterior evidence of cultivation occurring at the premises from a public right of wav or from an adjacent parcel. Medical cannabis
cultivation subject to this Chapter shall not create unreasonably offensive odors, create excessive dust, noise, heat, smoke, or other impacts that are
unreasonably disturbing to persons of normal sensitivity present on adjacent property.

Sec. 9-489. Transportation of medical cannabis: Activities entailing the transportation of medical cannabis in accordance with the Compassionate
Use Act, the Medical Marijuana Program Act. The Attorney General Guidelines, and this Chapter, shall be lawful only when conducted bv a participant of
a recognized medical cannabis business, or collective, or cultivation site for delivery to a participant member of the same medical cannabis collective
or medial marijuana business of the same medical cannabis collective or association when the quantity transported and the method, timing, and
distance of the transportation are reasonably related to the medical needs of the qualified patient or medical cannabis businesses receiving the
medication.

Sec. 9-490. Violation and enforcement: Each violation of this Chapter shall constitute a separate violation and shall be subject to all remedies
and enforcement measures authorized bv Costa Mesa Municipal Code. Additionally, as a nuisance per se. any violation of this Chapter shall be subject
to legally authorized remedies, including procedures for injunctive relief, disgorgement and payment to the City of any and all monies unlawfully
obtained, costs of abatement, costs of investigation, attorney's fees, and any other relief or remedy available at law or equity. The City may also pursue
any and all remedies and actions available and applicable under local and state laws for any violations committed bv the medical cannabis business
and persons related or associated with such medical cannabis business.

Sec. 9-491. Majority approval: Effective date: This Measure shall be effective only if approved bv a majority of voters and shall go into effect
immediately upon passage.

Sec. 9-492. Competing measures: In the event that this Measure and another Measure or Measures relating to the regulation of medical cannabis
in the City of Costa Mesa shall appear on the same ballot, the provisions of the other Measures shall be deemed to be in conflict with this Measure. In
the event that this Measure shall receive a greater number of affirmative votes, the provisions of this Measure shall prevail in their entirety, and the
provisions of the other relating to the regulation of medical cannabis in the City of Costa Mesa shall be null and void.

Sec. 9-493. Amendment and repeal: The provisions of the Costa Mesa Municipal Code added bv. amended bv. or contained in this initiative
Measure may be amended only as provided in each section. The provisions of the Costa Mesa Municipal Code added bv. amended bv. or contained in
this initiative measure shall not be repealed, except bv an ordinance adopted either bv petition or bv the Council at its own instance and adopted bv a
majority vote of the electors.

Sec. 9-494. Severability: If any portion of this initiative Measure is for any reason held to be unconstitutional, invalid or unenforceable bv a court
of competent jurisdiction, that invalidity shall not affect the remaining portions of this initiative Measure that can be implemented without the invalid
provision, and, to this end, the provisions of this initiative Measure are severable.

Sec. 9-495. Statewide regulation: This initiative Measure, and the provisions herein, shall be read consistent with any statewide regulation of
medical cannabis or recreational marijuana that is promulgated bv the legislature or bv voter approval in the future.

Sec. 9-496. Special or General election: This initiative Measure shall be set for a special or regular election at the earliest time allowed bv law.

SECTION 4 - AMENDMENTS TO COSTA MESA MUNICIPAL CODE TITLE 9, CHAPTER 1, ARTICLE 5, SECTION 9-32.

The People of the City of Costa Mesa do hereby enact and ordain that Title 9, Chapter 1, Article 5, Section 9-32, entitled Unlawful Business Not
Authorized, is hereby amended to read as follows: (All underlined language is new and to be inserted. All language struck through is to be deleted.)

Sec. 9-32 Unlawful business not authorized.

No business license or permit issued under the provisions of this title, nor the payment of any tax required under the provisions of this title shall be
construed as authorizing the conduct or continuance of any illegal business businesses deemed illegal bv state law or a legal business in an illegal

Ballot Measures-V

SECTION 5 - AMENDMENTS TO COSTA MESA MUNICIPAL CODE TITLE 13, CHAPTER 1, ARTICLE 2, SECTION 13-6.

Section

7

The People of the City of Costa Mesa do hereby enact and ordain that Title 13, Chapter 1, Article 2, Section 13-6, entitled , is hereby amended to read
as follows: (All underlined language is new and to be inserted. All language struck through is to be deleted)

Section 13-6. Definitions

Medical marijuana dispensary. A facility or location where medical marijuana is cultivated or by any other means made available to and/or distributed
by or to three (3) or more of the following: a primary caregiver, a qualified patient, or a person with an identification card in strict accordance with
State Health and Safety Code Sections 11362.5 et seq. and 11362.7 et seq„ which shall include, but not be limited to, any facility or location engaging
in the retail sale, dispensation, or distribution of marijuana for medical purposes that does not have an active role in the cultivation of the marijuana
product that it sells, dispenses, or distributes, or when its cultivation of the marijuana product is off-site from the facility or location for retail sale,
dispensation, or distribution.

Medical Cannabis Business. An unincorporated or incorporated entity or association of qualified patients and/or primary caregivers and/or persons
with identification cards, who provide money and in-kind contributions, reimbursements, and reasonable compensation towards the aforementioned
entity's actual expenses for activities including, but not limited to: planting, cultivation, harvesting, transporting, manufacturing, compounding,
converting, processing, preparing, storing, packaging, providing and/or retail sales of medical cannabis. A medical cannabis business may provide
medical cannabis, products, services and assistance to qualified patients, persons with a medical marijuana identification card (as set forth in the
MM PA), or the primary caregiver of such persons. Medical cannabis businesses may assist with the acquisition of skills necessary to cultivate or
provide marijuana for medical purposes in compliance with State Law. A medical cannabis business includes any facility, building, structure or location,
whether permanent, or temporary, where marijuana is made available, sold, given away, distributed, or otherwise provided in accordance with Health
and Safety Code section 11362.5 et seq. A medical cannabis business includes medical cannabis "cooperatives" and marijuana delivery services.

(1)	"Medical cannabis business" shall not include, nor be interpreted to include, any of the following:

a.	Any location which is a legal dwelling zoned exclusively for residential use and not permitted for any commercial activity where
three (3) or less people who reside at a property cultivate marijuana.

b.	The location of any clinic licensed pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 1200). a health care facility licensed
pursuant to Chapter 2 (commencing with Section 1250). a residential care facility for persons with chronic life-threatening illness
licensed pursuant to Chapter 3.01 (commencing with Section 1568.01). a residential care facility for the elderly licensed pursuant
to Chapter 3.2 (commencing with Section 1569). a hospice, or a home health agency licensed pursuant to Chapter 8 (commencing
with Section 1725). any facility specified in Division 2 of the California Health and Safety Code where: (i) a qualified patient or person
with an identification card receives medical care or supportive services, or both, from the clinic, facility, hospice, or home health
agency: and (ii) the owner or operator, or one of not more than three employees designated bv the owner or operator, of the clinic,
facility, hospice, or home health agency has been designated as a primary caregiver pursuant to California Health and Safety Code
Section 11362.7(d) bv that qualified patient or person with an identification card.

SECTION 6 - AMENDMENTS TO COSTA MESA MUNICIPAL CODE TITLE 13, CHAPTER 4, SECTION 13-30, ROW 31a OF TABLE 13-30 THE COSTA
MESA LAND USE MATRIX.

The People of the City of Costa Mesa do hereby enact and ordain that Title 13, Chapter 4, Section 13-30, Table 13-30, Row 31a, entitled City
of Costa Mesa Land Use Matrix, is hereby amended to read as follows: (All underlined language is new and to be inserted. All language struck through
is to be deleted.)

Section 13-30, Table 13-30

Section 13-30, Table 13-30, Row 31a

Ballot Measures-V

Impartial Analysis
City of Costa Mesa
Measure V

Section

7

Measure V, known as an Initiative to "Allow Operation of up to Eight Medical Marijuana (Cannabis) Businesses in City of Costa Mesa", would amend the
Costa Mesa Municipal Code to authorize up to eight medical marijuana businesses within City boundaries; such businesses could engage in retail sales,
planting, cultivation, harvesting, transporting, manufacturing, processing, preparing, storing, packaging, and provision of medical marijuana. Medical
marijuana businesses would be required to obtain a City business license, valid for two years, but would be exempt from requirements for any other
permits, including special or conditional use permits, site plans, variances, or any other permit or certificate otherwise required by law. If not issued or
denied within 45 days, the business will be permitted to operate. These business license requirements are ministerial in nature. The Measure provides
no discretion to the City to approve the licensees or the location of medical marijuana businesses.

Such businesses would be allowed as a matter of right certain commercial (AP, Cl, C2, CIS, TC & PDC) and industrial (MG, MP & PDI) zones, but not in
residential zones. Operational requirements include: authority to cultivate a "reasonable" amount of marijuana consistent with their member patient's
needs; no operations within 600' of a public school; no operations within 1000' from another medical marijuana business; no minors allowed during
hours of operation (limited to 9 a.m. to 10 p.m. seven days a week); no alcohol or marijuana to be consumed on, or within 50 feet of, the premises;
employees/volunteers must annually pass a criminal background check; security guard patrol provided for the premises during all hours of operation;
warning labels and packaging restrictions; odor restrictions; minimum client records; and possession of a commercial general liability insurance policy.
Violations of the Measure are subject to all penalties available under the Municipal Code.

If certain qualifications are met, the first eight applicants shall be granted a business license pursuant to "priority registration" status. If less than
eight applicants so qualify, the City may continue to issue licenses until eight have been issued. The City may increase, but not decrease the number
of business licenses below eight. Other than provided for in the specific sections of the Measure, the Measure's provisions cannot be amended or
repealed unless approved by a majority of the voters at another city wide election.

The measure provides a 6% tax on the distribution, sale or transfer of medical marijuana products, and a 1% sales tax on other tangible personal
property at retail. Under current law, a 6% sales tax, if construed as such by the State Board of Equalization, may cause the BOE to terminate its
contract to collect the City's sales tax.

If competing medical marijuana measures appear on the same ballot, then in the event multiple measures pass, and this Measure receives the most
affirmative votes, then the competing measure(s) shall be null and void.

This Measure was placed on the ballot by a petition signed by the requisite number of voters.

Ballot Measures-V

Section

Argument in Favor of Measure V

Rebuttal to Argument in Favor of Measure V

The official proponents of Initiative "V" have concluded that the City of
Costa Mesa-backed Measure "X" supports the principles set forth in our
initiative. While we believe that the use of medical marijuana will provide
multiple benefits to those who are truly in need of such medication,
we have decided to change course and remove our support for our
own initiative "V". We have done so because we believe that medical
marijuana operations, including the secure manufacturing, processing
and development of medicine would be best suited within the industrial
and commercial zones, where further research of medical marijuana's
benefits can be conducted in a safe and secure manner. This would be
more in line with the state law and would provide much needed safety
to patients. With that, we are now 100 percent behind the City-backed
Measure "X".

In November, the residents of Costa Mesa will be asked to vote on three
measures that would regulate the sale and manufacturing of medical
marijuana in the city.

While we originally were proponents of Measure V, which would allow up
to eight dispensaries in the city and impose a 6 percent sales tax, we are
now supporting the city's Measure X. We are urging voters to vote no on
our Measure V and no on Measure W, which would allow for as many as
four dispensaries in Costa Mesa.

s/ Robert Taft

Proponent/Sponsor of the Measure "V."

We support the city's Measure X, which we believe will provide dignified
and safe access to medical marijuana to individuals seeking such
medication. As it's written, the city's initiative will be more in line with
state law and we agree with the city's Measure X that medical marijuana
operations would be best suited among the industrial and commercial
areas of the city.

s/ Natalie Dragotto

Mother of 11-year-old child with epilepsy

Please join us in voting NO on Measures V and W and YES on the city's
Measure X.

s/ Randall T. Longwith
Drafter of the Measure "V."

s/ Robert Taft
Proponent of Measure V

s/ Kevin Gardner
Proponent of Measure V

s/ Jim Righeimer

Mayor Pro Tern, City of Costa Mesa

Section

Ballot Measures-V	7

Argument Against Measure V

In November, the residents of Costa Mesa will be asked to vote on three
measures that would regulate the sale and manufacturing of medical
marijuana in the city.

While we originally were proponents of Measure V, which would allow up
to eight dispensaries in the city and impose a 6 percent sales tax, we are
now supporting the city's Measure X. We are urging voters to vote no on
our Measure V and no on Measure W, which would allow for as many as
four dispensaries in Costa Mesa.

We support the city's Measure X, which we believe will provide dignified
and safe access to medical marijuana to individuals seeking such
medication. As it's written, the city's initiative will be more in line with
state law and we agree with the city's Measure X that medical marijuana
operations would be best suited among the industrial and commercial
areas of the city.

Please join us in voting no on Measures V and W and yes on the city's
Measure X.

s/ Robert Taft
Proponent of Measure V

Rebuttal to Argument Against Measure V

The official proponents of Initiative "V" have concluded that the City of
Costa Mesa backed Measure "X" supports the principles set forth in our
initiative. While we believe that the use of medical marijuana will provide
multiple benefits to those who are truly in need of such medication,
we have decided to change course and remove our support for our
own initiative "V". We have done so because we believe that medical
marijuana operations, including the secure manufacturing, processing
and development of medicine would be best suited within the industrial
and commercial zones, where further research of medical marijuana's
benefits can be conducted in a safe and secure manner. This would be
more in line with the state law and would provide much needed safety
to patients. With that, we are now 100 percent behind the City-backed
Measure "X".

s/ Robert Taft

Proponent/Sponsor of the Measure "V"
s/ Kevin Gardner

Proponent/Sponsor of Measure "V"

s/ Randall T. Longwith
Drafter of Measure V

s/ Jim Righeimer

Mayor Pro Tern, City of Costa Mesa