CITY OF CHULA VISTA

(This Measure will appear on the ballot in the following form.)

MEASURE P

To repair neighborhood streets and sidewalks, replace storm drains to prevent
sinkholes, update police, paramedic and 9-1-1 equipment and facilities, improve parks,
repair recreation facilities, and for general city services and infrastructure, shall the
City of Chula Vista adopt an ordinance enacting a temporary cent sales tax,
generating an estimated $16 million per year, expiring in 10 years, with no further
increases without voter approval, with all funds staying in Chula Vista, requiring citizen
oversight and independent audits?

This measure requires approval by a simple majority (over 50%) of the voters voting on the
measure. Full text of this measure follows the arguments and rebuttals.

CITY ATTORNEY IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

Summary

If approved by voters, Measure P would impose a one-half cent ($.005) “transactions and use tax”
(commonly known as a “sales tax”) on retail sales within the City of Chula Vista for a period often

(10)	years. The City’s Finance Director estimates the tax would generate approximately $16
million in year one, and $176 million over its 10 year term. The City Council has expressed its
intent to spend these monies exclusively on City infrastructure, facilities and equipment.
However, because the tax is a “general purpose” tax, the City Council would reserve the right to
spend the tax revenues for any lawful City purpose. Measure P also includes provisions for
separate accounting and citizen oversight.

Authority and Method of Assessment

Measure P’s sales tax would be levied under state law (Revenue and Taxation Code Section
7285.9). As such, it would be assessed and collected as a percentage of gross receipts from
retail sales (and other taxable uses) occurring within the City in the same manner as the existing
state sales tax. The current state sales tax rate is 8% of gross receipts. If the City sales tax were
approved, the sales tax rate in the City would increase to 8.5%. The tax revenues generated
from the additional .5% would go to the City (less a state administrative fee), and could only be
spent for City purposes. If approved, the tax would commence on April 1, 2017, and expire 10
years thereafter.

Provisions for Intended Expenditures

Concurrent with its approval of Measure P for placement on the ballot, the City Council adopted
an “Intended Infrastructure, Facilities and Equipment Expenditure Plan” (“Plan”) for Measure P
revenues. By doing so, the City Council expressed its intent to spend Measure P sales tax
revenues exclusively on City infrastructure, facilities and equipment. Within 30 days of voter
approval, the Measure itself requires City staff to present for City Council action, specific projects
and financing consistent with this Plan. Each year thereafter, City staff would be required to
prepare a “Measure P Spending Plan” that is also consistent with this Plan, and present it for City
Council consideration, in its discretion, as part of the City’s annual budget. A copy of the Plan is
available on the City website at www.chulavistaca.gov/infrastructure.

PR-09B0-P-1

CITY ATTORNEY IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS (CONTINUED)

Separate Accounting and Citizens’ Oversight

Measure P includes requirements for separate accounting, budgeting and auditing of tax
collections and expenditures. It also requires creation of a citizens’ oversight committee (“COC”).
The COC would be responsible for reviewing and reporting on Measure P annual accounting and
spending plans, and would advise on “best practices.” The COC must be comprised of City
residents with ranges of expertise, including accounting, finance and engineering.

General Purpose Tax

The City Council is submitting Measure P to the voters as a “general purpose tax.” This means
that a majority of the voters must approve the Measure for it to go into effect. Although this City
Council has expressed its intent to spend Measure P revenues exclusively on City infrastructure,
facilities and equipment, the City Council will retain discretion to spend the revenues generated
for any lawful municipal purpose.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE P

Measure P will make Chula Vista better, safer, and stronger. It will allow us to fix our streets,
parks, sports fields, and fire stations, and protect our families by replacing an aging 9-1-1
dispatch system and buying new fire trucks and police cars.

Chula Vista is one of the best run cities in California, but is still feeling the pinch of the recession.
During that time, we laid off staff, reduced spending, and cut pensions without harming our quality
of life. Over the past two years, we looked at every street, park, recreation center, and public
safety vehicle. We discovered what most of us see every day. We have some critical needs that
must be fixed.

Simply put, we do not have the funds to do this. We receive only 1 penny out of every 8 cents
people pay in sales taxes. That just doesn’t allow us to address our city’s needs, even with the
amazing efforts of our city workers. Measure P solves this problem with a temporary half-cent
sales tax increase that ends after 10 years. These funds can only be spent in Chula Vista, and
cannot be touched by politicians in Sacramento.

Measure P demands accountability and transparency. Funds raised by Measure P will have its
own line item in our budget, so everyone can clearly see how the money is spent. In addition, a
special citizen oversight committee will be established to ensure that the funds are spent properly.

Most importantly, you will see improvements immediately. We’ll improve streets, parks and sports
fields within the first year. We will begin building two new fire stations, rebuilding other stations,
and buying fire trucks and police cars right away.

Please join us by voting Yes on Measure P. For a better, safer, and stronger Chula Vista.

MARY CASILLAS SALAS	DAVID	BEJARANO

Chula Vista Mayor

JIM GEERING

MARK TWOHEY
Coach

NO guarantee new taxes will be used for listed infrastructure projects

Measure P is a $160,000,000 ($160 Million) General Sales Tax increase that will go directly to the
General Fund. Politicians can use the money for ANY purpose. Political promises made by the
current administration are just words. Next year the new City Council can use the additional tax
revenue for skyrocketing pension costs, special political projects and NOT infrastructure.

No Traffic Congestion Relief

The City’s budget currently has NO MONEY budgeted for these important infrastructure items. If
these projects are so vital and essential to the future wellbeing of Chula Vista, then the City must
make them annual budget priorities.

A Tax that Hurts Families

This new sales tax undermines the financial wellbeing of our lower and middle class citizens. The
City continues to allow pension spiking. It spends the most in the County, at almost $2 million a
year, on specialty pay. The Mayor of Chula Vista receives $186,785 in total compensation as
compared to San Diego’s Mayor at $96,974. THERE IS ROOM TO CUT WASTEFUL SPENDING
before asking citizens to pay more in taxes.

No Bond Shell Game

Politicians promise to bond against the sales tax revenue, so citizens will pay twice: once for the
new sales tax and again for an estimated $5 million in interest/orocessing for a bond. This is too
expensive for infrastructure and deferred maintenance!

Don’t believe the politicians’ false promises!

NO on P!

PAULA WHITSELL
Secretary, Republican Party
of San Diego County

PR-09B0-P-3

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE P

Vote No on the $160 Million Tax Increase Fraud

These taxes are NOT guaranteed to be spent on infrastructure. Measure ‘P’ is a General Tax
and can be used on pensions and employee salary increases.

Read the fine print: this tax increase WILL be used for General Services or anything else the City
Council desires. 65 city employees have retired with pensions of more than $100,000! That’s
over $6.5 Million in retirement salaries each year!

Sales Tax Increase Hurts Our Families

Many families are still struggling. This $160 Million tax increase will hurt everybody, but especially
those who can least afford it.

It hurts lower and middle income taxpayers the most. Cars, school supplies, clothes and other
essential items will be more expensive. VOTE NO!

City Should Focus on Reform

Chula Vista is the ONLY City in the County to still maintain FULL pension spiking for employees.

Chula Vista has the highest Specialty Pay average of any city in San Diego County, averaging
$1,719,199 per year, while other cities spend only $212,000 annually.

The Mayor is the sixth highest paid mayor in California receiving $186,785 in full compensation as
compared to Mayor of San Diego who receives $115,974.

The City needs to implement real reform before they ask YOU to pay more taxes!

No Real Accountability

The Oversight Committee will have no teeth. The City Council can still spend your money on
anything it wants. The committee will be an insiders’ club hand-picked by the Mayor and City
Council.

Vote NO on Measure ‘P’!

Your current tax dollars should be spent on infrastructure, reducing traffic congestion and
maintaining our sewer system. You already pay enough taxes on city pensions and government
waste. Vote NO on this tax increase! Protect your paycheck! VOTE NO on P!

ROBERT M. SANTOS
Engineer Retired

PAULA WHITSELL
Secretary, Republican Party
of San Diego County

MICHAEL DIAZ
Retired Firefighter

DELIA DOMINGUEZ CERVANTES
Retired

SUZANNE SANTOS
Teacher

Please do not be deceived by the opponents to Measure P. Opponents have so little to object to
that they have resorted to outright lies and fabrications in their statement.

Measure P is the result of a very transparent process that began more than 2 years
ago and involved community residents, public meetings and outreach. All information,
including an intended spending plan, is posted on the City’s website,
http://www.chulavistaca.gov/departments/public-works/infrastructure. The temporary sales
tax will not be used for salaries or pensions—it will be used to fix our infrastructure.

Chula Vista has cut staff and pensions. We have eliminated pension spiking for everyone except
cops and firefighters.

But Chula Vista only has $553 to spend on city services for every man, woman and child. In
comparison, San Diego spends $953 per capita and Del Mar $2,597. More than half of our
budget goes to pay for firefighters and police officers.

We do well with the money that we have—but we need to do more to make Chula Vista better. If
approved, Measure P will increase our sales tax from 8% to 8.25%, the state sales tax of 0.25%
ends in December.

We need the temporary sales tax to fix our streets, storm drains, parks, sports fields, recreation
centers, build and repair fire stations, a new 9-1-1 dispatch system, and new fire trucks and police
cars to protect our families.

Measure P will make Chula Vista safer, stronger and better. Please vote yes on P.

MARY CASILLAS SALAS
Chula Vista Mayor

FREDRICK ROWBOTHAM
President Chula Vista
Police Officers Association

JIM GEERING

MARK TWOHEY
Coach

PR-09B0-P-5

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE P

ORDINANCE NO.

ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF CHULA VISTA ADDING
CHAPTER 3.33 TO TITLE 3 OF THE CHULA VISTA MUNICIPAL
CODE TO ESTABLISH A TEMPORARY ONE-HALF CENT
GENERAL TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX TO BE
ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION
INCLUDING PROVISIONS FOR CITIZENS5 OVERSIGHT AND
ACCOUNTABILITY

WHEREAS, numerous City facilities, including streets, storm drains, sidewalks, curbs,
gutters, emergency response equipment and facilities, irrigation systems, park and recreation
facilities, and libraries, are in dire need of repair, replacement, upgrading and/or maintenance;
and

WHEREAS, the City has conducted significant public outreach to identify the most
critical needs and priorities with respect to addressing the City’s infrastructure needs, including
forming a working group composed of City residents, business owners, and other stakeholders;
and

WHEREAS, the public outreach efforts identified certain public priorities with respect to
fixing City facilities, including: repairing City streets, potholes, sidewalks, and storm drains;
upgrading aging police, fire, and 911 emergency response facilities; maintaining parks, recreation
centers, and libraries; and improving water recycling and irrigation systems (collectively, “City
Infrastructure, Facilities and Equipment Priorities55); and

WHEREAS, although the City’s finances have improved since the recent recession, it is
still experiencing financial challenges and is unable to address the City’s infrastructure
deficiencies within its current budget; and

WHEREAS, the City has determined that the enactment of a general local transactions
and use tax (commonly known as a “sales tax”) would allow the City to address the City
Infrastructure, Facilities and Equipment Priorities identified above without compromising existing
City services; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Article XIII C of the California Constitution, and California
Revenue and Taxation Code Section 7285.9, the City has the authority to enact a local sales tax
for general purposes with the approval of the majority of voters in the City voting in an election on
the issue; and

WHEREAS, the City Council directed staff to prepare for submittal to the voters an
ordinance enacting a one-half cent sales tax for 10 years consistent with all applicable general
purpose tax laws, including measures providing for citizens’ oversight, separate accounting and
independent audits; and

WHEREAS, proposed Chapter 3.33 of the Chula Vista Municipal Code, set forth below,
establishes a transactions and use tax to be administered by the State Board of Equalization
consistent with City Council direction; and

WHEREAS, concurrently herewith the City Council is adopting a spending plan
expressing its intention to expend new sales tax revenues on City Infrastructure, Facilities and
Equipment Priorities, as more particularly described therein (the “City Council Intended
Infrastructure, Facilities and Equipment Expenditure Plan”).

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE P (CONTINUED)

NOW, THEREFORE, subject to approval by an affirmative, simple majority vote of the
people as required by law, the People of the City of Chula Vista do ordain as follows:

SECTION 1:

The Chula Vista Municipal Code is hereby revised to add Chapter 3.33 as set forth below, thereby
enacting a local transactions and use tax within the City of Chula Vista, to be administered by the
State Board of Equalization:

CHAPTER 3.33
CHULA VISTA TEMPORARY ONE-HALF CENT SALES TAX

Sections:

3.33.010	Title.
3.33.020	Purpose.
3.33.030	Operative date.
3.33.040	Transactions and use tax imposition and rate.
3.33.050	Termination date.
3.33.060	Contract with State Board of Equalization.
3.33.070	Place of sale.
3.33.080	Adoption of provisions of state law.
3.33.090	Limitations on adoption of state law and collection of use taxes.
3.33.100	Permit not required.
3.33.110	Exemptions and Exclusions.
3.33.120	Amendments of Revenue and Taxation Code.
3.33.130	Enjoining collection forbidden.
3.33.140	Amendments by City Council.
3.33.150	Use of Proceeds.
3.33.160	Citizens’ oversight and accountability.
3.33.170	Severability.

3.33.010 TITLE.

This ordinance shall be known as the Chula Vista Temporary One-Half Cent Sales Tax
Ordinance. The City of Chula Vista hereinafter shall be called “City.” This Ordinance shall be
applicable in the incorporated territory of the City.

3.33.020 PURPOSE.

This Ordinance is adopted to achieve the following, among other purposes, and directs that the
provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish those purposes:

A.	To	impose	a	retail	transactions	and	use	tax, in accordance with the

provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code and Section 7285.9 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 which authorizes the City to adopt this tax
ordinance which shall be operative if a majority vote of the electors voting on the measure vote to
approve the imposition of the tax at an election called for that purpose.

B.	To	adopt	a	retail	transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates

provisions identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California insofar as
those provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE P (CONTINUED)

C.	To	adopt	a	retail	transactions	and	use tax ordinance that imposes a tax and

provides a measure therefore that can be administered and collected by the State Board of
Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and requires the least
possible deviation from, the existing statutory and administrative procedures followed by the State
Board of Equalization in administering and collecting the California State Sales and Use Taxes.

D.	To	adopt	a	retail	transactions	and	use	tax	ordinance	that	can	be administered

in a manner that will be, to the greatest degree possible, consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6
of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting the transactions
and use taxes, and at the same time, minimize the burden of record keeping upon persons
subject to taxation under the provisions of this Ordinance.

3.33.030 OPERATIVE DATE.

“Operative Date” means the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing more than 110
days after the approval of the voters of the City of a measure approving the imposition of the
transactions and use tax set forth herein, unless a later Operative Date becomes effective under
the provisions of Section 3.33.060.

3.33.040 TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX IMPOSITION AND RATE.

A.	For	the	privilege	of	selling	tangible	personal	property	at	retail,	a tax is hereby

imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated territory of the City at the rate of one-half of one
percent (0.5%) of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible personal property
sold at retail in said territory on and after the Operative Date of this Ordinance.

B.	An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other consumption in

the City of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on and after the Operative Date
of this Ordinance for storage, use or other consumption in said territory at the rate of one-half of
one percent (0.5%) of the sales price of the property. The sales price shall include delivery
charges when such charges are subject to state sales or use tax regardless of the place to which
delivery is made.

3.33.050 TERMINATION DATE.

The authority to levy the tax imposed by this Ordinance shall expire ten (10) years following the
Operative Date.

3.33.060 CONTRACT WITH STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION.

Prior to the Operative Date, City shall contract with the State Board of Equalization to perform all
functions incident to the administration and operation of this Ordinance; provided, that if the City
shall not have contracted with the State Board of Equalization prior to the Operative Date, it shall
nevertheless so contract, and in such a case the Operative Date shall be the first day of the first
calendar quarter following the effective date of such a contract.

3.33.070 PLACE OF SALE.

For the purposes of this Ordinance, all retail sales are consummated at the place of business of
the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is delivered by the retailer or his agent to an
out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination. The
gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery charges, when such charges are subject to
the State sales and use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is made. In the event a
retailer has no permanent place of business in the State or has more than one place of business,

PR-09B0-P-8

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE P (CONTINUED)

the place or places at which the retail sales are consummated shall be determined under rules
and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the State Board of Equalization.

3.33.080 ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW.

Except as otherwise provided in this Ordinance and except insofar as they are inconsistent with
the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the provisions of
Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are
hereby adopted and made a part of this Ordinance as though fully set forth herein.

3.33.090 LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF STATE LAW AND COLLECTION OF USE TAXES.

In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code:

A.	Wherever	the	State	of	California	is	named	or	referred	to	as	the	taxing

agency, the name of this City shall be substituted therefor. However, the substitution shall not be
made when:

1.	The	word	“State”	is	used	as	part	of	the	title of the State Controller,

State Treasurer, Victim Compensation and Government Claims Board, State Board of
Equalization, State Treasury, or the Constitution of the State of California;

2.	The	result	of	that	substitution	would	require action be taken by or

against this City or any agency, officer, or employee thereof, rather than by or against the State
Board of Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the administration or operation of
this Ordinance.

3.	In	those	sections,	including but not necessarily limited to sections

referring to the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the result of the substitution
would be to:

a.	Provide	an	exemption from this tax with respect to

certain sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property which would not
otherwise be exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other consumption remain
subject to tax by the State under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code; or

b.	Impose	this	tax	with	respect	to	certain sales, storage,

use or other consumption of tangible personal property which would not be subject to tax by the
State under the said provision of that code.

4.	In	Sections	6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711,

6715, 6737, 6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

B.	The word “City” shall be substituted for the word “State” in the phrase “retailer

engaged in business in this State” in Section 6203 and in the definition of that phrase in Section
6203.

3.33.100 PERMIT NOT REQUIRED.

If a seller’s permit has been issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, an additional transactor’s permit shall not be required by this Ordinance.

3.33.110 EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the

use tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or by any city,
PR-09B0-P-9

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE P (CONTINUED)

city and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law
or the amount of any state-administered transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax

the gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum
products, to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the county in which
the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of
persons or property under the authority of the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign
government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the City which is shipped to a
point outside the City, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by the retailer or
his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at such point. For
the purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point outside the City shall be satisfied:

a.	With	respect	to	vehicles	(other	than	commercial

vehicles) subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of
Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public
Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels registered under Chapter 2 of Division 3.5
(commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration to an out-of-City address and
by a declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that such address is, in
fact, his or her principal place of residence; and

b.	With	respect	to	commercial	vehicles,	by registration to a

place of business out-of-City and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, that
the vehicle will be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to
furnish the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date
of this Ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of
such property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the property for an
amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of this Ordinance.

5.	For	the	purposes of subsections (3) and (4) of this section, the sale

or lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract
or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional
right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this Ordinance, the

storage, use or other consumption in this City of tangible personal property:

1.	The	gross	receipts	from	the	sale	of which have been

subject to a transactions tax under any State-administered transactions and use tax ordinance.

PR-09B0-P-10

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE P (CONTINUED)

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by
operators of aircraft and used or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the use
of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under a
certificate of public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this State, the
United States, or any foreign government. This exemption is in addition to the exemptions
provided in Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of
California.

3.	If	the	purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for

a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this Ordinance.

4.	If	the	possession of, or the exercise of any right or power

over, the tangible personal property arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such
property for any period of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the property for an
amount fixed by a lease prior to the Operative Date of this Ordinance.

5.	For	the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this

section, storage, use, or other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power
over, tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or
lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right
to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

6.	Except	as	provided	in	subparagraph	(7),	a retailer

engaged in business in the City shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of
tangible personal property, unless the retailer ships or delivers the property into the City or
participates within the City in making the sale of the property, including, but not limited to,
soliciting or receiving the order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer in
the City or through any representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the
City under the authority of the retailer.

7.	“A	retailer engaged in business in the City” shall also

include any retailer of any of the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1
(commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance
with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels registered under
Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required
to collect use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at
an address in the City.

D.	Any	person subject to use tax under this Ordinance may credit against that

tax any transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district imposing, or
retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code with respect to the sale to the person of the property the storage, use or other
consumptions of which is subject to the use tax.

3.33.120 AMENDMENTS TO REVENUE AND TAXATION CODE.

All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this Ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and which are not inconsistent with
Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and all amendments to
Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically
become a part of this Ordinance, provided however, that no such amendment shall operate so as
to affect the rate of tax imposed by this Ordinance.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE P (CONTINUED)

3.33.130 ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN.

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit, action
or proceeding in any court against the State or the City, or against any officer of the State or the
City, to prevent or enjoin the collection under this Ordinance, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.

3.33.140 AMENDMENTS BY CITY COUNCIL.

The following amendments to this Ordinance must be approved by the voters of the City:
increasing the tax rate; revising the methodology for calculating the tax, such that a tax increase
would result; imposing the tax on transactions and uses not previously subject to the tax (unless
such amendment occurs automatically by operation of law); or extending the term of the tax. The
City Council may otherwise amend this Ordinance without submitting the amendment to the
voters for approval.

3.33.150 USE OF PROCEEDS.

The proceeds from the tax imposed by this Ordinance shall be for general governmental
purposes of the City and shall be received into the general fund of the City. Nothing in this
Ordinance shall constitute the tax imposed under this Ordinance as a special tax, or bind the City
to use the proceeds for any specific purpose or function; the City Council shall retain discretion to
expend the proceeds of the tax for any lawful purpose of the City.

3.33.160 CITIZENS5 OVERSIGHT AND ACCOUNTABILITY.

In order to provide for citizens’ oversight, transparency and accountability in connection with
expenditures of tax revenues generated under the terms of this Ordinance, the City shall do the
following:

A.	Separate	Fund Accounting. All revenue generated by the tax shall be

accounted in the General Fund as a separate line item entitled “Local Sales and Use Tax -
Measure ‘X5 Revenues.” These revenues will then be transferred to a General Fund subfund
entitled “Measure ‘X’ Fund.” Any and all expenditures of Measure ‘X’ Fund monies will be
tracked and accounted for by City Finance Department staff in accordance with Generally
Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), and presented annually in a report (the “Finance
Department Report”) to the Citizens’ Oversight Committee (“COC”) created pursuant to
subdivision D. below.

B.	Initial and Annual Submittal of Measure X Spending Plan. If Measure ‘X’ is
approved by the voters, within 30 days after such approval the City Manager shall bring forth for
City Council consideration and action, in its discretion, proposed budget amendments and
financing options to accelerate large-scale projects for fiscal year 2016-17 that would fund and
implement the City Council Intended Infrastructure, Facilities and Equipment Expenditure Plan
that was approved by the City Council concurrent with this Ordinance, using Measure X fund
revenues. For each subsequent year, prior to City Council consideration of the City’s annual
budget, City staff will prepare and present to the COC for its review a spending plan for Measure
‘X’ Fund revenues. Such plan (the “Measure ‘X’ Spending Plan”) shall be consistent with the City
Council Intended Infrastructure, Facilities and Equipment Expenditure Plan, include specific
proposals for near term expenditures, a plan for expenditures throughout the 10-year term of the
tax, and finance options for larger-scale projects that may require the pledge of Measure ‘X’
revenues. After review by the COC, the Measure ‘X’ Spending Plan shall be incorporated into the
City Manager’s proposed budget, and then presented to the City Council for its consideration and
action, in its discretion, as part of the City’s annual budget process. The City Council must
consider for approval the expenditure of projected Measure ‘X’ Fund revenues as a separate line
item category in each year’s budget.

C.	Annual. Independent Audit. Beginning with the fiscal year that ends June 30,
2017, the City’s independent auditors shall, as part of their annual audit of the City’s financial
PR-09B0-P-12

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE P (CONTINUED)

statements, review the collection and expenditure of revenue from the Measure X tax. Along
with the City’s Finance Department report provided in subsection A., above, the auditors’ review
of such revenues (“Auditor Report”) shall be presented each year to the COC at a public meeting
for its review for compliance with the terms of this Ordinance and to disclose whether or not it has
been expended in accordance with the City Council approved Measure X Spending Plan. The
results of the COC review shall then be transmitted through the City Manager’s Office to the City
Council for its consideration at a public meeting.

D.	Citizens’ Oversight Committee. Prior to the Operative Date, the City shall

create and convene a Citizens’ Oversight Committee (“COC”). The function of the COC shall be
to review and report on City compliance with the terms of this Ordinance and the spending
guidelines contained in the City Council Intended Infrastructure, Facilities and Equipment
Expenditure Plan and each Measure X Spending Plan presented and approved by the City
Council thereafter. Specific COC responsibilities shall include: (1) public review and comment on
each year’s Finance Department Report, Measure X Spending Plan and Auditor Report (as
provided in subsections A-C, above); (2) preparation of an annual report regarding same for
presentation to the City Council at a public meeting; and (3) working with City staff to identify and
apply “best practices” for tracking and reporting on Measure ‘X’ revenues and expenditures
relative to other City revenues and expenditures- Current elected City officials and employees are
disqualified from membership. COC members shall be appointed by the City Council in
accordance with existing City policies and will include individuals with a range of expertise,
including accounting, finance and engineering. The COC shall operate in accordance with the
Ralph M. Brown Act, which includes requirements that meetings be noticed in advance and held
in public. The COC shall be created by City Council ordinance consistent with the terms of this
Section adopted no later than December 31,2016.

3.33.170 SEVERABILITY.

If any provision of this Ordinance or the application thereof to any person or circumstances is held
invalid, such invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications of the Ordinance which can
be given effect without the invalid provision or application, and to this end the provisions of this
Ordinance are severable. This City Council hereby declares that it would have adopted this
Ordinance irrespective of the invalidity of any particular portion thereof and intends that the invalid
portions should be severed and the balance of the Ordinance be enforced.

SECTION 2:

The City Clerk shall be authorized to replace the terms "Measure X" wherever they appear in this
Ordinance with the respective ballot designations determined by the County Registrar before this
Ordinance is codified.

SECTION 3:

This Ordinance shall take effect immediately, upon approval by a simple majority of the voters
voting on the question at the November 8, 2016 election.

PR-09B0-P-13