FULL MEASURE TEXT FOR MEASURE U
AN ORDINANCE OF THE HUMBOLDT COUNTY ASSOCIATION
OF GOVERNMENTS

THE HUMBOLDT COUNTY ASSOCIATION OF GOVERNMENTS, ACTING IN
ITS CAPACITY AS THE HUMBOLDT COUNTY LOCAL TRANSPORTATION
AUTHORITY, does hereby ordain as follows:

Section 1. PREAMBLE.

A. Humboldt County's transportation system is used by
everyone. A properly functioning and well-maintained transportation system in
Humboldt County isa key component of our quality of lifeand ability to attract jobs
to our region. Our population is mobile and while Humboldt County's population
grows slower than the rest of the State of California, residents are living longer
and our young families are growing, and communities are more connected than
ever before for jobs, schools, shopping and entertainment. Unfortunately, due to
the decline in the purchasing power of the gas tax, and the increasing restrictions
that the state and federal government have placed on their limited available
transportation funds, our transportation infrastructure is deteriorating.

Dramatic reductions in federal and state funding have left cities and
counties struggling to maintain local streets and roads. The maintenance and
repairs of existing roadways, trails and transit cannot be accomplished with
available funds. Projects in regions of the state which have a local source of
transportation funds, primarily through local retail transactions and use tax funds,
have been and will continue to be viewed much more favorably in the selection
process of the California Transportation Commission. Local governments must
either generate revenue to maintain our transportation system or watch the system
collapse and endanger the health, economy, welfare and safety of all Humboldt
County residents.

Enactment of a one-half of one percent (0.5%) retail transactions
and use tax for transportation to supplement traditional revenue sources is
the only way local governments can generate the funds needed to be sure the
transportation system will serve the current and future travel needs of Humboldt
County.

The Humboldt County Association of Governments will continue
to seek maximum funding for transportation improvements through State and
federal programs. It is important for the public to know that the funds generated
by this proposed retail transactions and use tax for transportation purposes will
be used only for the transportation expenditure plan detailed in this ordinance,
and therefore, the Humboldt County Association of Governments will establish a
system of accountability in conjunction with the tax, including annual independent
audits, a taxpayer oversight committee and annual report.

The Humboldt Association of Governments has developed a fair,
uncomplicated and accountable expenditure plan to address our long-term
transportation maintenance needs while preserving Humboldt Countyb quality of
life.

B.	Pursuant to California Public Utilities Code Section
180050, the Humboldt County Association of Governments has been designated
as the Humboldt County Local Transportation Authority (hereinafter called the
"Authority") by the Humboldt County Board of Supervisors.

C.	Pursuant to California Public Utilities Code Section
180206, a countywide transportation expenditure plan, referred to as the Humboldt
County Transportation Ballot Measure Expenditure Plan (hereinafter called the
“Plan’1), dated July 21,2016, has been adopted and will be administered and
implemented by the Authority.

D.	The Plan provides for needed countywide transportation
maintenance necessities funded, in whole or in part, by a transactions and
use tax of one-half of one percent for a period of twenty (20) years. The Plan
is incorporated here by this reference as though fully set forth herein, and as

BT1

that Plan may be amended from time to time pursuant to applicable law and as
provided for in the Plan and this ordinance.

Section 2. TITLE. This ordinance shall be known as the Humboldt
County Association of Governments Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance,
and may also be referenced herein as the “ordinance." This ordinance shall
be applicable in the incorporated and unincorporated territory of the County of
Humboldt, which shall be referred to herein as District."

Section 3. OPERATIVE DATE. "Operative Date” means the first day of
the first calendar quarter commencing more than 110 days alter the adoption of
this ordinance, the date of such adoption being as set forth below.

Section 4. PURPOSE. This ordinance is adopted to permit
implementation of the Plan and achieve the following, among other purposes.
It directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish those
purposes:

A. To impose a retail transactions and use tax in
accordance with the provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code and Section 180000 et. seq. of the
Public Utilities Code which authorizes the Authority to adopt this tax ordinance
which shall be operative if the legally required number of electors voting on the
measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax at an election called for that
purpose.

B To adopt a retail transactions and use tax
ordinance that incorporates provisions identical to those of the Sales and Use
Tax Law of the State of California insofar as those provisions are not inconsistent
with the requirements and limitations contained in Pari 1.6 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax
ordinance that imposes a tax and provides a measure therefor that can be
administered and collected by the State Board of Equalization in a manner that
adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and requires the least possible deviation
from, the existing statutory and administrative procedures followed bv the State
Board of Equalization in administering and collecting the California State Sales
and Use Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax
ordinance that can be administered in a manner that will be, to the greatest degree
possible, consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting the transactions and use taxes,
and at the same time, minimize the burden of record keeping upon persons
subject to taxation under the provisions of this ordinance.

Sections. CONTRACT WITH STATE. Prior to the operative date,
the Authority shall contract with the State Board of Equalization to perform all
functions incident to the administration and operation of this transactions and
use tax ordinance; provided, that if the Authority shall not have contracted with
the State Board of Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall nevertheless
so contract and in such a case the operative date shall be the first day of the first
calendar quarter following the execution of such a contract.

Section 6. TRANSACTIONS TAX RATE. For the privilege of selling
tangible personal property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in
the incorporated and unincorporated territory of the District at the rate of one-half
of one percent of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible
personal property sold at retail in said territory on and after the operative date of
this ordinance.

Section 7. PLACE OF SALE. For the purposes of this ordinance,
all retail sales are consummated at the place of business of the retailer unless
the tangible personal property sold is delivered by the retailer or his agent to
an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state
destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery charges,

BT1

when such charges are subject to the state sales and use tax, regardless of the
place to which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of
business in the State or has more than one place of business, the place or places
at which the retail sales are consummated shall be determined under rules and
regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the State Board of Equalization.

Section 8. USE TAX RATE. An excise tax is hereby imposed on the
storage, use or other consumption in the District of tangible personal property
purchased from any retailer on and after the operative date of this ordinance for
storage, use or other consumption in said territory at the rate of one-half of one
percent of the sales price of the property. The sales price shall include delivery
charges when such charges are subject to state sales or use tax regardless of the
place to which delivery is made.

Section 9. ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW. Except as
otherwise provided in this ordinance and except insofar as they are inconsistent
with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all
of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a part of this ordinance
as though fully set forth herein.

Section 10. LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF STATE LAW AND
COLLECTION OF USE TAXES. In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2
of the Revenue and Taxation Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or
referred to as the taxing agency, the name of this Authority shall be substituted
therefor. However, the substitution shall not be made when:

1.	The word "State” is used as apart of the title
of the State Controller, State Treasurer, State Board of Equalization, State Treasury,
or the Constitution of the State of California.

2.	The result of that substitution would require
action to be taken by or against this Authority or any agency, officer, or employee
thereof rather than by or against the State Board of Equalization, in performing the
functions incident to the administration or operation of this ordinance.

3.	In those sections, including, but not
necessarily limited to sections referring to the exterior boundaries of the State of
California, where the result of the substitution would beta:

a.	Provide an exemption from this
tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible
personal property which would not otherwise be exempt from this tax while such
sales, storage, use or other consumption remain subject to tax by the State under
the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to
certain sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property,
which would not be subject to tax by the state under the said provision of that
code.

4.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last
sentence thereof), 6711,6715,6737,6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code.

B.	The word ''District'' shall be substituted for the
word "State" in the phrase “retailer engaged in business in this State" in Section
6203 and in the definition of that phrase in Section 6203.

Section 11. PERMIT NOT REQUIRED. If a seller's permit has been
issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an
additional transactor's permit shall not be required by this ordinance.

Section 12. EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS.

A. There shall be excluded from the measure of

JIT

the transactions tax and the use tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed
by the State of California or by any city, city and county, or county pursuant to the
Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the amount of any state-
administered transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of
the amount of transactions tax the gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other
than fuel or petroleum products, to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed
principally outside the county in which the sale is made and directly and
exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property
under the authority of the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign
government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the
District which is shipped to a point outside the District, pursuant to the contract
of sale, by delivery to such point by the retailer or his agent, or by delivery by the
retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at such point. For the purposes of
this paragraph, delivery to a point outside the District shall be satisfied:

a.	With respect to vehicles
(other than commercial vehicles) subject to registration pursuant to Chapter
1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft
licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and
undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section
9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration to an out-of-District address and by
a declaration under penalty ol perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that such
address is, in fact, his or her principal place of residence; and

b.	With respect to commercial
vehicles, by registration to a place of business out-of-District and declaration
under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, that the vehicle will be operated
from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the
seller is obligated to furnish the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract
entered into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which
is a continuing sale of such property, for any period of time for whicn the lessor
is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the
operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and
(4) of this section, the sale or lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed
not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which
any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the
contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed
by this ordinance, the storage, use or other consumption in this District of
tangible personal property;

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which
have been subject to a transactions tax under any state-administered transactions
and use tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products
purchased by operators of aircraft and used or consumed by such operators
directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons
or property for hire or compensation under a certificate of public convenience
and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this State, the United States, or any
foreign government. This exemption is in addition to the exemptions provided
in Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of
California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the

BTl

property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative
date of this ordinance.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any
right or power over, the tangible personal property arises under a lease, which
is a continuing purchase of such property for any period of time for which the
lessee is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by a lease prior to the
operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3)
and (4) of this section, storage, use, or other consumption, or possession of, or
exercise of any right or power over, tangible personal property shall be deemed
not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which
any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the
contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a
retailer engaged in business in the District shall not be required to collect use
tax from the purchaser of tangible personal property, unless the retailer ships or
delivers the property into the District or participates within the District in making
the sale of the property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving the
order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer in the
District or through any representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or
person in the District under the authority of the retailer.

7.	"A retailer engaged in business in the
District” shall also include any retailer of any of the following: vehicles subject to
registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division
3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of
the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels registered under Division
3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall
be required to collect use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the
vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the District.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this
ordinance may credit against that tax any transactions tax or reimbursement for
transactions tax paid to a district imposing, or retailer liable for a transactions tax
pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code with respect
to the sale to the person of the property the storage, use or other consumption of
which is subject to the use tax.

Section 13. AMENDMENTS. This Ordinance and Expenditure Plan
may be amended to provide for updated information used in the allocation
formula by approval of a two-thirds vote of the members of the Authority. No
amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate or duration of tax imposed by this
Ordinance.

All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this ordinance to Part 1 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and
which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2
of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part of this
ordinance, provided however, that no such amendment shall operate so as to
affect the rate of tax imposed by this ordinance.

Section 14. USE OF PROCEEDS. The proceeds of the transactions
and use tax imposed by this ordinance shall be used solely for the projects,
programs and purposes set forth in the Humboldt County Ballot Measure
Expenditure Plan, as it may be amended from time to time, and for the
administration thereof.

Section 15. MAINTENANCE OF EFFORT. It is the intent Of the
Legislature and the Authority that proceeds from the transactions and use tax
be used to supplement, not replace, existing funds being used for transportation
improvements and services. Maintenance of Effort standards are established in
the Plan. Under no circumstances shall proceeds from the transactions and use
tax be used to substitute or replace obligations that new development may incur

BT1

for mitigating impacts on infrastructure or the environment.

Section 16. APPROPRIATIONS LIMIT, For purposes of Public Utilities
Code section 180202, the appropriations limit for the Authority for fiscal year
2017-18 shall be $12 million and thereafter that amount should be amended
pursuant to applicable law. All expenditures of the transaction and use tax
authorized herein shall be subject to the appropriations limit of the Authority.

Section 17. ADMINISTRATION AND SPENDING LIMIT. The Authority
shall allocate revenues from the transactions and use tax to fund facilities, services
and projects as specified in the Plan and shall administer the ordinance and the
Plan consistent with the authority cited. Revenues from the tax may be expended
by the Authority for salaries, wages, benefits, and overhead for those services,
including contractual services, necessary to carry out its responsibilities;
however, in no case shall the tax revenues expended for salaries and benefits
of the Authority administrative staff exceed more than one half of one percent
(0.5%) of the funds generated by the tax in any year. The Authority may, as the law
permits, contract with any public agency or private firm for services necessary to
carry out the purposes of the ordinance and the Plan.

Section 18. SAFEGUARDSmuSEALM PROCEEDS,

The following safeguards are hereby established to ensure strict adherence to
limitations on the use of the proceeds from the transactions and use tax:

A A transportation special revenue fund (the
“Local Transportation Authority Special Revenue Fund") shall be established to
maintain all proceeds from the transactions and use tax.

B.	Each agency receiving the revenues identified
in Section 20 shall have its revenues deposited in a separate interest bearing
Transportation Improvement Fund. Interest earned on revenues allocated
pursuant to this Ordinance shall be expended only for those purposes permitted
by this Ordinance.

C.	No proceeds from the transactions and
use tax shall be used by any entity for other than the purposes authorized by
the ordinance and the Plan. Any entity that violates this provision must fully
reimburse the Authority for the funds misspent, plus any accrued interest, and
will have any further allocations withheld until all funds are reimbursed.

Section 19. ALLOCATION OF FUNDS TO LOCAL JURISDICTIONS.
The allocation formula for funds provided to local jurisdictions for Local Streets,
Roads and Transportation Priorities as shown in the Table on Page 1 of the Plan
was established by a cooperative effort with all jurisdictions in Humboldt County
represented. Of the 99.5% of funds available after the administrative allocation,
a total of $50,000 for each of the small cities (Blue Lake, Femdale, Rio Dell and
Trinidad), totaling $200,000 per year, shall be taken “off the top” and added to the
formula allocation for those cities. The formula allocation of the remaining funds
is as follows: Fifty percent (50%) of the allocation is based on the proportion of
sales tax generated on a regional level and the remaining fifty percent (50%) is
based on road miles and population. Of this portion road miles are weighed at
25% and population at 75%.

Section 20. ANNUAL REPORT. Annually the Authority shall publish a
report on howall proceeds from the transactions and use tax have been spent and
on progress in implementing the Plan, and shall publicly remit on the findings.
The Oversight Committee shall oversee the development of the report.

Section 21. REQUEST FOR ELECTION. Pursuant to California Public
Utilities Code Section 180201, the Authority hereby requests that the County of
Humboldt Board of Supervisors call a special election to be conducted by the
County of Humboldt on November 8,2016 to place the following measure before
the electors:

MEASURE U. To supplement existing funding for maintenance,
rehabilitation, and reconstruction of existing transportation including trails
and transit; local match leveraging of state/federal funds for road, trail and

BTl

transit infrastructure; and retention of existing commercial air service, shall
the Humboldt County voters adopt an ordinance establishing a V4 per dollar
sales tax throughout Humboldt County for 20 years, raising approximately
$10,000,000 annually, requiring independent audits, separate accounts, public
oversight and local revenue control?

Section 22. COMPLIANCE WITH CALIFORNIA ENVIRONMENTAL
QUALITY ACT. The Authority finds that this ordinance is exempt from the
California Environmental Quality Act (Public Resources Code §§ 21000 et seq.,
"CEQA," and 14 Cal. Code Reg. §§ 15000 et seq., "CEQA Guidelines"). The
transactions and use tax authorized by this ordinance is a special tax that can
only be used to fund the projects, facilities, and services described in the Plan
but does not approve any of the described projects or services. As such, under
CEQA Guidelines section 15378(b)(4), the tax is not a project within the meaning
of CEQA because it creates a government funding mechanism that does not
involve any commitment to any specific project or service that may result in a
potentially significant physical impact on the environment. If revenue from the tax
were used for a purpose that would have such effect, the Authority or appropriate
lead agency would undertake the required CEQA review for that particular project
or service. Therefore, pursuant to CEQA Guidelines Section 15060, review of the
ordinance under CEQA is not required. Prior to commencement of any project
or service included in the Plan, any necessary environmental review required
by CEQA shall be completed. The Authority or appropriate lead agency for
any project or service funded by the revenue from the tax shall perform CEQA
analysis for the project or service prior to approving the project, if the project or
service requires analysis under CEQA.

Section 23. ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN. No injunction
or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit,
action or proceeding in any court against the State or the Authority, or against any
officer of the State or the Authority, to prevent or enjoin the collection under this
ordinance, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax
or any amount of tax required to be collected.

Section 24. VALIDATION OF TAX AND BONDS. Any action or
proceedings questioning, contesting, or denying the validity of the adoption of
this transactions and use tax ordinance or issuance of any bonds thereunder or
any proceeding related thereto shall be commenced within six months from the
date of the election at which this ordinance is approved. Otherwise, the bonds
and all proceedings related thereto, including the adoption and approval of this
ordinance, shall be held valid and in every respect legal and incontestable.

Section 25. SEVERABILITY. If any provision of this ordinance or the
application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the remainder
of the ordinance and the application of such provision to other persons or
circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

Section 26. EFFECTIVE DATE. This ordinance relates to the levying
and collecting of the District transactions and use taxes and shall take effect
immediately.

Section 27. TERMINATION DATE. The authority to levy the tax
imposed by this ordinance shall expire March 31,2037.

Exhibit A

Humboldt County Transportation Ballot Measure
Expenditure PlanT

All of the cities in Humboldt County and the County itself have expressed the
challenges that they face in funding maintenance of local streets and other
transportation infrastructure. The Humboldt County Association of Governments
(HCAOG) submitted to the voters of the County a measure that would authorize
a half-cent (0.5%) transactions and use (sales) tax to fund local road and
transportation infrastructure projects.

Not more than half of one percent of funds, on an annual basis, will be used
for administrative purposes of the HCAOG. The remaining 99.5% of funds
generated by the sales tax measure will be allocated to the Cities of Areata, Blue
Lake, Eureka, Ferndale, Fortuna, Rio Dell, Trinidad and the County of Humboldt
for local projects. Each of the cities and the County will decide on which projects
to fund, as long as those projects eligible under the standards of this Plan. The
allocation formula is based upon $50,000 base for the four smallest cities (Blue
Lake, Ferndale, Rio Dell and Trinidad) with the balance allocated by road miles,
population and sales tax generation. The 20-year investment is expected to
generate $200,000,000.

20 Year Plan Totaling $200 Million	Percent of Funds	Estimated Annual Allocation	20-Year Allocation Estimate
Audits. Oversight Committee Administration, Annual Reports  Administration costs will be reimbursed actual expenditures, not to exceed $50,000 per year.	0.56%	350,000	$i,6do,ooo
Areata	11.41%	51,141,041	535,320,829
Blue Lake	0.97%	596,865	51,937,292
Eureka	32.57X	53,257,049	555:1407972"
Ferndale	1.39%	5139,014	52,780,279
Fortuna Rio Dell Trinidad County of Humboldt	77455T	5747,702	$14,6$4,035
	TSS5T	5185,632	53,712,638
	K545T	594,125	$1,882,498
	42.89%	54,288,573	535,771,457
TOtAL	100%	510,000,000	5200,000,000

Eligible Uses

•	Maintenance, rehabilitation, and reconstruction of existing transportation
infrastructure including trails and transit.

•	Local match leveraging of state and federal funds for road, trails and transit
infrastructure.

•	Retention of existing commercial air service.

Safeguards and Accountability Measures

This Transportation Investment Plan includes strong taxpayer safeguards to
ensure that the projects and programs approved by the voters are funded and
delivered.

Taxpayer Oversight Committee: This committee will be created to provide an
enhanced level of accountability for expenditures made under this Investment
Plan to ensure that all voter mandates are carried out and that the financial
integrity and performance of the program is maintained.

Annual Independent Audit and Annual Reporting: Annual fiscal and compliance
audits will be conducted by an independent Certified Public Accountant, selected
by the Taxpayers Oversight Committee, to assure that the revenues are expended
in compliance with the tax measure and this Plan. The audit’s results and annual
report must be published and made available to the general public.

Sunset Date: This measure terminates in 20 years.

BT1	BT1

Administrative Expense Cap: Expenditures of HCAOG staff necessary to
administer the program will toe limited to no more than one-half of one percent
of the annual gross revenues provided by the measure. These costs include
independent audits, staffing the oversight committee, administrative costs
associated with allocation of funds and required reporting by the cities and
County, and producing an annual report.

Eligibility Verification: The cities and County will select transportation projects
that meet eligibility criteria as identified in this Plan. The local jurisdictions will
certify in the annual verification submitted to the HCAOG that these transportation
funds were used for eligible expenses.

Maintaining Local Transportation Funding Efforts: The local jurisdictions will
certify in the annual verification submitted to HCAOG that these transportation
funds will be used to augment and not supplant local resources spent. For
purposes of this calculation an average of the prior five (5) years spent for local
transportation purposes will be used. Extraordinary funding such as “one-time"
funding adopted as part of the jurisdiction’s annual budget may be excluded from
the calculation of a jurisdiction’s average spending.

Comprehensive Review of Progress and Performance: At least every ten years, a
comprehensive review of all programs and projects implemented under the Plan
will be undertaken to evaluate the status and performance of the overall program.
The review shall include consideration of changes to local, state and federal
transportation plans and policies; changes in environmental standards and
policies; revenue projections; data used in the allocation formula; level of public
support for the Plan; and the progress of the local jurisdictions in implementing
the Plan. The Commission may amend the Plan based upon its comprehensive
review, subject to the following amendment process.

Amendments Require 2/3rd Support of the HCAOG Board: The Plan may be
amended to provide for the use of additional federal, state or local revenues,
to account for unexpected revenues, to take into consideration unforeseen
circumstances or respond to a comprehensive review. An amendment must be
adopted by a two-thirds vote of the HCAOG Board acting as both HCAOG and
the Local Transportation Authority. The public and all jurisdictions in the County
will be given a minimum of 45 days to comment on any proposed amendment.

HCAOG is an association of local governments representing all seven cities
and the County of Humboldt that is responsible for coordinating transportation
planning in the Humboldt region. HCAOG has the fiduciary duty of administering
the transportation sales tax proceeds in accordance with all applicable laws and
with the Plan. The monies collected shall be accounted for and invested separately,
unless and until the funds are turned over to a local agency in accordance with
the Plan. At such time, the local agency shall keep a separate accounting of
the monies and any and all expenditures to ensure that the monies are spent
in accordance with the approved Plan. All interest income generated by these
proceeds will be used for the purposes outlined in this Plan and will be subject to
audits. HCAOG may use the contingency fund to make up the difference between
the budgeted revenues and the actual revenues.

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE U
HUMBOLDT COUNTY ASSOCIATION OF GOVERNMENTS
TRANSACTION & USE TAX

Measure U would authorize the adoption of a one-half percent (1/2 %) local
transportation authority transaction and use tax to be in effect for a period of
twenty (20) years countywide. Revenue from the tax could only be used to fund
the eligible uses listed in the adopted Humboldt County Transportation Ballot
Measure Expenditure Plan, a complete copy of which is included in the voter
information handbook. Because Measure U calls for the adoption of a special
tax for a specific purpose, the maintenance and improvement of local road and
transportation infrastructure projects, it must be approved by a two-thirds vote of
the electorate as required by California Constitution Article XIIIC, Section 2 (d).

If passed, Measure U would ratify the Humboldt County Association of
Governments (HCAOG) Transaction and Use Tax Ordinance No. 16-02, adopted
by HCAOG acting in its capacity as the Humboldt County Transportation Authority
(HCTA) on July 21,2016. If Measure U fails to pass, Ordinance No. 16-02 would
be ineffective.

The one half percent (1/2 %) retail sales tax would be applicable within both
the incorporated cities and the unincorporated area of the County of Humboldt.
Revenues will be allocated on an annual basis to the County of Humboldt and to
the Cities of Areata, Blue Lake, Eureka, Ferndale, Fortuna, Rio Dell, and Trinidad
in accordance with a formula set forth in the ordinance. No more than one half
percent (.5%) of funds may be used for administration by HCAOG. Ordinance
No. 16-02 establishes a system of accountability, including annual independent
audits, a taxpayer oversight committee, and an annual report. The tax would be
collected and administered by the State Board of Equalization, under contract with
the HTCA.

By law (Revenue and Tax Code section 7251.1), the combined rate of all local
transaction and use taxes imposed in Humboldt County may not exceed two
percent (2%).

Measure U was placed on the ballot by vote of the Humboldt County Board of
Supervisors on August 9,2016, as authorized by California Public Utilities Code
section 180203.

/s/ Jeffrey S. Blanck, County Counsel

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE U

If you walk, ride, or drive on streets and roads in Humboldt County, you know
they need help. In recent years, state and federal funding for road maintenance
has fallen significantly. We can no longer rely on these sources to take care of our
streets and roads. By voting YES on Measure U, voters will generate $200 million
over the next 20 years for maintenance of existing transportation infrastructure.

VOTE YES ON MEASURE U to reverse the trend of deteriorating city streets and
county roads. Current funding for street and road maintenance doesn't allow us
to keep up, let alone improve the situation.

VOTE YES ON MEASURE U to save money in the future. The longer we delay
fixing roads, the more expensive it becomes. We are on the edge of never being
able to catch up.

VOTE YES ON MEASURE U to inject money back into our local economy. $200
million in street and road maintenance will generate badly needed jobs!

VOTE YES ON MEASURE U to ensure that first responders have safe access in
an emergency. Well maintained streets and roads mean quicker response times
for police and fire.

VOTE YES ON MEASURE U to increase local control of transportation funding.
Despite numerous efforts and promises, state and federal legislators have failed
to provide adequate funding to maintain our streets and roads.

VOTE YES ON MEASURE U to hold local officials accountable. With independent
audits of expenditures and a taxpayer oversight committee, citizens will know that
funds are being spent appropriately.

VOTE YES ON MEASURE U and join a broad coalition on both sides of the
political aisle to safeguard our transportation infrastructure for the future!

/s/ Frank Jager
/s/ Rex Bohn
/s/ Mark Lovelace

BT1

REBUTTAL TO THE ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE U

VOTE NO ON MEASURE U It does not guarantee that $200,000,000 will be
spent on deteriorating city streets and county roads.

VOTE NO ON MEASURE U: instead, it could be spent on retention of
commercial air service, maintaining existing trails and transit, not new trails or
transit.

VOTE NO ON MEASURE U: It does not include guarantees that local
contractors will get the contracts to create local jobs.

VOTE NO ON MEASURE U: It does not disclose the makeup of method of
choosing "a taxpayer oversight committee” Will it be more responsive to the
citizens' desires than the Measure Z committee?

VOTE NO ON MEASURE U: Many municipalities already have or propose a
sales tax for this same purpose, such as Areata and Fortuna. Why double or triple
the taxation? We don’t know what will happen 10-20 years in the future. This
$200,000,000 commitment goes way too long without voter review.

VOTE NO ON MEASURE U. Eureka residents would receive $1,000,000 per
year or $20,000,000 total if they enacted their own city-wide tax instead.

VOTE NO ON MEASURE U

/s/ Kent Sawatzky, Concerned Citizen

BT1

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE U	REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE U
Although this measure is a dedicated transportation tax, limited to the maintenance of existing services, there is no assurance that roads, which have hundreds of millions of dollars in deferred maintenance, will be given priority.	f  MEASURE U is in fact a dedicated transportation tax, limited to the maintenance of existing infrastructure, march funding for state and federal grants, and retention of commercial air service. The spending plans developed by the County and each City dedicate the vast majority of funding to street and raod maintenance.
It can only be spent on existing services. It cannot be spent on new trails, or other new transportation needs.	When you VOTE YES ON MEASURE U, you ensure that funds are spent appropriately, with a Taxpayer Oversight Committee and annual independent
It could, however, be spent be spent on our constantly money loosing existing commercial air service.	audits of all expenditures.
HCAOG has stated that they fully expect the promotion of this measure to be provided by large construction companies who will then be the beneficiaries.	It is important to residents of Humboldt County that we retain commercial air service. In order to do that, we need to ensure that we can maintain adequate funding for federally required programs and staffing at the airport.
At four times longer than the normal sunset for such tax measures, the 20 years sunset for this measure is entirely too long.	The average sunset for transportation taxes throughout California is 30 years. It is true that some local "general’' sales taxes sunset after five years; however, there is a benefit to long term planning when it comes to infrastructure maintenance.
Any new $200,000,000 tax is much more needed to maintain safety and protection for the public, be it 9-1-1 emergency response, protection of abused children or the proper care of the mentally ill.	By enacting MEASURE U for 20 years, you ensure the most efficient use of your fax dollars.  MEASURE U will benefit our entire community with better roads and living
/si Kent Sawatzky, Concerned Citizen	wage jobs. It will establish a secure source of funding for our street and road maintenance independent of state and federal sources. We have seen the majority of funding taken away from our county, with state and federal funding for raod maintenance decreasing significantly in recent years, while our maintenance backlog grows longer and longer.  With MEASURE U, your tax dollars will be kept local, ensuring the maximum benefit to our community. Join us in voting YES ON MEASURE U.  /s/Frank JJager /s/Rex Bohn /s/ Mark Lovelace
3T1	BTl