VOTER INFORMATION PAMPHLET

072

The following pages contain voter information applicable to your ballot which
may include any/all of the following items:

>	CANDIDATES’ STATEMENTS

>	BALLOT MEASURES

>	ANALYSES

>	ARGUMENTS, FOR & AGAINST

This pamphlet section may not contain a statement for each candidate. A complete list of candidates appears on the
Ballot/Sample Ballot. Each candidate’s statement in this pamphlet is volunteered by the candidate and is printed at the
expense of the candidate unless otherwise determined by the governing body. Each candidate’s statement is printed in
uniform format exactly as submitted by the candidate.

ARGUMENTS IN SUPPORT OF OR IN OPPOSITION TO THE
PROPOSED LAW ARE OPINIONS OF THE AUTHORS

Prop. 34 - Expenditure Limitations: State Legislative Candidates

Proposition 34 was passed by voters in November 2000. The law requires county election officials to provide
the names of those State Legislative candidates who have voluntarily agreed to expenditure limits. Candidates
who agree to the expenditure limits may submit and pay for a Candidate’s Statement of Qualification to be
printed in this pamphlet. The following State Legislative candidates appearing on ballots in El Dorado County
have accepted the voluntary expenditure limitations pursuant to Proposition 34.

1st State Senate	5th State Assembly	6th State Assembly
Rob Rowen, Democratic	Robert Carabas, Democratic	Brian Caples, Democratic
Ted Gaines, Republican	Frank Bigelow, Republican	Kevin Kiley, Republican

Party Endorsement

ELECTION CODE 13302. (b) In connection with an election at which a candidate for a voter-nominated office will appear on the ballot, a qualified political
party may submit to the county elections official a list of all candidates for voter-nominated office who will appear on a ballot in the county in question, and
who have been endorsed by the party by whatever lawful mechanism the party adopts for endorsing candidates for voter-nominated office. If a political
party timely submits a list to the county elections official pursuant to this subdivision, the county elections official shall print the names of the candidates for
voter-nominated office who were endorsed by that political party in the voter information portion of the sample ballot. The party chairperson shall provide a
written copy of the list of candidates endorsed by the party not later than 83 days prior to the election at which the candidate for a voter-nominated office
will appear on the ballot. (Amended by Stats. 2012, Ch. 3, Sec. 43. Effective February 10, 2012.)

The following is a list of candidates appearing on the ballot in El Dorado County that have been endorsed,
pursuant to EC 13302(b), by the listed political parties. All questions about this list should be directed to the party
in question.

Party	US Senate	4th Congress	1st Senate	5th Assembly	6th Assembly
American Independent	None	Tom McClintock	Ted Gaines	Frank Bigelow	Kevin P Kiley
Democratic	Kamala D Harris	Robert W Derlet	Rob Rowen	Robert Carabas	Brian Caples
Peace and Freedom	None	None	None	None	None
Republican	None	Tom McClintock	Ted Gaines	Frank Bigelow	Kevin P Kiley

The following is a list of party abbreviations used on your ballot.			
DEM - Democratic	REP - Republican	Al - American Independent	GRN - Green
LIB-Libertarian	PF - Peace and Freedom	REP, Al - Republican, American Independent (for Trump/Pence nomination only)	

VPI-072

Who is on the ballot for this election?

In the November General Election, all voters receive the same ballot, no matter what political party you are
registered with (or if you have no party preference). The address where you are registered to vote
determines which contests are on your ballot.

The top two-the ones with the most votes in the Primary Election-are on your ballot
for this election.

In the June Primary Election, all Californians were able to vote to decide which candidates for state and local
offices moved on to the November General Election.

Offices that are part of the Top 2 Primary

The following offices, called voter-nominated offices, are part of the Top 2 Primary:

•	U.S. Senator

•	U.S. Representative

•	State Senator

•	State Assembly Member

There is no write-in for these offices.

Both candidates on the ballot may have the same party preference. A candidate may be nominated by
more than one party. The candidate’s party preference (or “None”) is listed under their name. For
example:

JOHN SMITH
Party Preference: DEM

JANE DOE

Party Preference: REP

CHRIS JONES
Party Preference: NONE

County, city, school and

Candidates for the following nonpartisan offices were chosen in the June Primary Election:

•	County Supervisor

If a candidate for these local offices received at least 50% plus 1 vote in the Primary, they were elected
and are not on the General Election ballot.

OR

If no candidate won, the two candidates with the most votes are on the ballot.

•	Also on the November ballot are candidates running for school and special districts, as well as city
offices.

You can write-in a candidate for these offices.

Candidates for nonpartisan local offices do not have a party preference listed on the ballot.

For more information, you can call the Elections Department at (530) 621-7480.

The following party abbreviations have been used on your ballot.		
DEM - Democratic	REP - Republican	Al - American Independent
GRN - Green	LIB - Libertarian	PF - Peace and Freedom
REP, Al - Republican, American Independent (for Trump/Pence nomination only)		

special district offices

Are You Having Difficulty Voting Because of a Disability? CALL: 1-888-569-7955

Disability Rights California will operate a statewide hotline from 7:00 AM to 8:00PM on Election Day to help
voters with disabilities have a successful voting experience.

VIP-02

STATEMENT OF CANDIDATE FOR UNITED STATES REPRESENTATIVE 4TH DISTRICT  ROBERT W DERLET  Occupation: Physician, Professor, Author  Education and Qualifications: Listening to the people in this district motivated me to run for Congress. Too many families, young people, and retired workers experience pain and frustration created by the growing costs of everyday living, from housing costs to groceries. Increased healthcare costs top the list, with families paying outrageous costs for insurance, deductibles, non-covered services, and prescription drugs. I’ll fight to lower healthcare costs for everyone and also offer Medicare beginning at age 55.  I’ll vote to increase consumer protection to counter deceptive Wall Street practices and keep Social Security and Medicare away from Wall Street privatization.  I’ll fight to keep good jobs in the USA, increase wages and benefits, support legislation to reduce the cost of education, and help small businesses succeed.  Our High Sierra forests face new wildfire threats from drought and warming temperatures. I’ll work to increase funding to remove dead trees and brush, protect our watershed, ensure clean air and water, and also support measures to tackle global climate change.  I’ve worked hard all my life, beginning at age 8 delivering newspapers, then labored in clerical, factory, shipping, ranching, and construction jobs. After becoming a physician, 1 served 18 years as Professor and Chief of the Emergency Department, UC Davis Medical Center, where 1 taught medical students and supervised the care of nearly 1 million ER patients. I’ve hiked thousands of miles in our district’s wilderness watershed while conducting research on water bacteria and quality in the High Sierra.  Please visit www.derletforcongress.com.	STATEMENT OF CANDIDATE FOR UNITED STATES REPRESENTATIVE 4TH DISTRICT  TOM McCLINTOCK  Occupation: United States Representative  Education and Qualifications: America has enjoyed its greatest prosperity and happiness when it has known its greatest freedom. Our Founders created a society where we were free to make our own choices, enjoy the fruit of our own labors, take responsibility for our own decisions and lead our own lives with a minimum of governmental interference and intrusion. Government protected our fundamental rights and left us otherwise alone to live our own lives as we saw fit. Today, a very different vision competes for our future: an all-powerful government that commands our economic decisions, micro-manages our daily lives, and consumes more and more of our earnings. In the last eight years, it has disrupted our healthcare system, shrunk our family incomes, threatened our constitutional rights, doubled our national debt, overwhelmed us with illegal immigration and placed our children in danger of becoming the first American generation to be less well off than their parents.  The election of 2016 will decide whether America becomes another failed socialist state or whether this generation of Americans revives and restores the founding American principles of individual liberty, constitutionally limited government and personal responsibility that produced the happiest, freest and most prosperous society in human history.  You sent me to Washington to fight to restore the freedom that made America great, and 1 am doing everything in my power to do so.  1 am asking for your support to continue this fight. You can read more about my proposals at TomMcClintock.com.
STATEMENT OF CANDIDATE FOR STATE ASSEMBLY 6TH DISTRICT  BRIAN CAPLES  Occupation: Non-Governmental Organization Director Education and Qualifications: Experienced, Capable, Fiscally Conservative: Brian Caples knows how to reach across party lines to find solutions to California’s problems. After a tough battle with cancer, Brian Caples left his successful 20 year career in business to serve the public. He founded Fix CA Water, a bipartisan organization of experts to find solutions that provide more water for our farmers.  At a time when our police departments are underfunded, fire stations are closing, and nurses are stretched too thin; it’s no surprise that Brian Caples has their support. Brian Caples is uncompromising in his dedication to public safety. What’s more, as the candidate with decades of business experience, he’ll help businesses create jobs by reducing regulations and permit requirements. We need someone who understands the challenges facing businesses to bring jobs back to California.  Using his technology background, Brian Caples will streamline government processes to be more efficient. He will revolutionize the legislative process with innovative solutions like an online portal to “Suggest a Bill” to your representative, and putting DMV services online. Raised by a single mother, Brian knows the importance of living within your means and spending time with family. Traffic is keeping us from our loved ones. Brian Caples will be fighting for funding to fix congestion on 80, 50, and 65. Brian Caples knows that keeping a balanced budget requires accurate accounting and ongoing audits to ensure taxpayer money is used wisely, efficiently, and getting results. A vote for Brian Caples will bring responsible government back to California. Learn more at www.briancaples.com	STATEMENT OF CANDIDATE FOR STATE ASSEMBLY 6TH DISTRICT  KEVIN KILEY  Occupation: Deputy Attorney General/Criminal Prosecutor Education and Qualifications: I’m not a career politician. But as a Deputy Attorney General, 1 could not stand by and watch our laws weakened and our communities endangered. 1 will oppose the extreme policies of the legislature that have reduced sentences of some of California’s most violent felons.  That is why 1 decided to put on hold my career as a Criminal Prosecutor and run for the Assembly. As your representative, 1 will work hard for you and your family every day that 1 serve.  As your representative 1 will: Protect Prop. 13: Oppose New Taxes: be a Strong Voice for Job Creation and work to ensure every child has access to a quality education.  I’ve earned the support of the Howard Jarvis Taxpayers Association, the California Small Business Association and some of California’s most prominent education leaders.  My experience includes: Graduate of Harvard and Yale universities: Inner-City Public School Teacher: Business Legal Advocate: Deputy Attorney General and Criminal Prosecutor. 1 was raised in our district and attended its schools.  1 would be honored to receive your vote and pledge to represent you with integrity. Please visit my website, www.KileyforAssembly.com, or call me directly at 916-745-6284

STATEMENT OF CANDIDATE FOR
LOS RIOS COMMUNITY COLLEGE DISTRICT
TRUSTEE AREA 3

MARC ALLAMAN

Occupation: Retired Teacher

Education and Qualifications: El Dorado County deserves the best
representative as their choice for the Los Rios Community College
Board of Trustees. El Dorado County deserves to have a trustee that
has many years of experience working in education. El Dorado
County deserves to have a trustee that has years of experience
working collaboratively to develop multi-million dollar budgets in
education. El Dorado County deserves a trustee that has years of
successful experience working with teacher labor relations and
experience necessary to work effectively with all manner of
stakeholders.

If you share these values, please consider me as your candidate of
choice for Los Rios Community College Board Trustee. I believe in
giving back to our community. I self-finance my campaign. I take no
money from contributors.

I have worked in educational instruction for 33 years in California. I
have successfully served as a local district’s association president as
the lead labor representative and have decades of experience
organizing groups of teachers in management and curriculum
development. I have years of experience of volunteering and currently
serve as a Commissioner for a local city and am also president of a
large local home-owners association and coached youth soccer for 10
years.

STATEMENT OF CANDIDATE FOR
LOS RIOS COMMUNITY COLLEGE DISTRICT
TRUSTEE AREA 3

JOHN R KNIGHT	AGE:	68

Occupation: Los Rios Trustee/Small Business owner
Education and Qualifications: The most important part to remember
about being on the Los Rios Community College District Board is you
and your family. The hard working students who attend our
community colleges deserve all the support and encouragement
possible. Their job is not easy. My job is to make sure necessary
support is there for our students when they need it.

As your trustee, we’ve made progress such opening the new gym
facility at Folsom Lake College and a new student service building at
Sacramento City College. We expanded veterans services and
expanded student services at the El Dorado Center. We opened a
new Rancho Cordova Center. Light rail was extended to Cosumnes
College through partnership with the transit district.

Our district continues to expand educational opportunities while
maintaining a strong financial base. But there is more to be done. We
must ensure that we are reaching all students who desire to improve
their job skills and further their education.

I will continue to support partnerships with the K-12 school systems
and work with students, faculty, administration and the community. It
is my job assure that necessary support for our students. They
deserve no less.

09-202

STATEMENT OF CANDIDATE FOR EL DORADO UNION HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT GOVERNING BOARD MEMBER  DAVID B BICKNELL  Occupation: Local Business Owner  Education and Qualifications: As an involved parent 1 have attended the EDUHSD board meetings for the past several years. 1 worked diligently to ensure the district made necessary corrections to the boundary lines, allowing middle school students to attend high school with their classmates. Beginning in 2017, 1 will have children attend high school within the district until 2023 and will continue working to ensure our students are presented with the best possible learning opportunities.  The role of the board is to provide a high quality education to every student, by effectively managing the staff, teachers, district personnel, facilities and finances while maintaining the trust of the community though proper leadership. 1 have served on various boards, including those in the private sector and non-profit organizations.  1 have managed large numbers of people throughout my business career and have always taken the approach of a servant leader. As a successful business leader, 1 have significant experience in managing personnel, budgeting, the need for compassion and the challenge of making the toughest decisions that can have dramatic impacts across many people.  As a fiscal conservative, your tax dollars will be wisely invested in providing the best possible future for our students of the El Dorado Union High School District.	STATEMENT OF CANDIDATE FOR EL DORADO UNION HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT GOVERNING BOARD MEMBER  DAVID J DEL RIO AGE: 55  Occupation: Executive Director EDCA Lifeskills / Parent Education and Qualifications: I’m excited to run for the High School Board again to focus on District resources in regards to programs and services that impact our students. One example of change is the adjusted boundaries that allow students to attend the high school in their neighborhood. With four years of experience and serving as this year’s president, 1 feel I’m qualified and prepared to address student needs within the District.  I’ve held multiple Board Member positions over the years that include SARB, Kiwanis of Placerville, Big Brothers/Big Sisters, M.O.R.E., Food Bank of El Dorado, and more.  1 began my career with El Dorado County Probation as Counselor/Supervisor of teens. Currently I’m the Executive Director of EDCA Lifeskills, which I’ve managed for the past 19 years. My adult work life has been spent meeting the needs of at-risk children and adults to provide them with a new direction away from crime, drugs, and hopelessness.  I’m a 1979 graduate of Ponderosa High School and am proud to serve in the district 1 graduated. 1 have great confidence in the staff, teachers, students and parents of this district and strive to be fair and make good choices for all. My wife, Chris, and 1 have three children that have graduated from our exceptional high schools.
STATEMENT OF CANDIDATE FOR EL DORADO UNION HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT GOVERNING BOARD MEMBER  DELOY LINK  Occupation: Behavioral Therapist/Small Business Owner Education and Qualifications: 1 am A Leader Who Listens.  As a Trustee 1 will be a forward thinker who provides stable leadership.  Our children deserve a public education which reaches beyond standards.  1 am dedicated to creating a district of national prominence which fully prepares students to participate in a global and local economy.  As a graduate of Ponderosa High School, Cal Poly SLO, and Cal State East Bay, my master’s degree in Counseling Psychology prepared me to become a Behavioral Therapist.  For 22 years 1 have advocated and obtained resources for students who have learning differences and special needs.  In supporting gifted students and over performers, 1 will insight our District to create a STEAM program and provide summer enrichment opportunities for all students.  We must also create a safe and positive learning environment at every school in our district - large and small.  All of this can be done while maintaining strong fiscal controls over district budgets and spending, this includes responsible appropriation of Mello Roos funds.  Together we can give our kids the district they deserve. A vote for Deloy Link is a vote for a Superior Education for All Types of Learners. Visit www.ElectDeloyLink.com	STATEMENT OF CANDIDATE FOR EL DORADO UNION HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT GOVERNING BOARD MEMBER  LORI M VEERKAMP  Occupation: Parent/grandparent/School Board member Education and Qualifications: 1 was first elected to the EDHSD board in 2004. I’m currently the only female board member; 1 bring the woman/mother’s perspective to many decisions. 1 am proud of the accomplishments our district has achieved in the past twelve years. Our student academic achievements continue to surpass most schools within the region.  During the most recent national economic difficulties, our school district was able to retain our highly qualified teaching staff and keep intact our Career Technology/Regional Occupational Programs.  We have maintained a balanced budget with a reserve for financial stability even during one of the worst economic downturns this nation has ever experienced.  Our communities are still reaping the benefits from the Measure Q bond that increased the educational opportunities for all students, significantly enhanced classroom technology, greatly improved our athletic facilities and continues to be a source of community pride throughout the district.  If re-elected, 1 will continue maintaining an environment that attracts highly qualified staff and utilize taxpayer dollars for the benefit of all. 1 would be honored for your support, so 1 can continue working hard for the students and parents of our county. Thank you.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE K

REVISED RESOLUTION NO. 2016-01
OF THE CAMERON ESATES COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
PROPOSING A BALLOT MEASURE TO INCREASE THE SPECIAL TAX WITHIN
THE DISTRICT TO PROVIDE FOR IMPROVEMENTS, UPGRADES AND
INCREASED MAINTENANCE OF THE DISTRICT’S ROADS

WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of the Cameron Estates Community Services District wishes to submit to the voters of the District a
proposal to fund improvements and upgrades to the roads within the District and to increase the level of maintenance of the roads; and

WHEREAS, Government Code § 50075 et. seq. provides authority for special districts to impose special taxes; and

WHEREAS, the Board has determined that an increase of the existing tax rate is necessary in order to adequately fund needed road
improvements and upgrades and to increase the level of road maintenance within the District; and

WHEREAS, the Board has determined that the electors within the District should have the opportunity to decide whether the level of funding
for road improvements, upgrades and maintenance should be increased; and

WHEREAS, Government Code §53722 provides that a special tax must be submitted to the electorate of the District and approved by a
two-thirds vote of the voters voting on the issue.

NOW THEREFORE, BE IT HEREBY RESOLVED by the Board of Directors of the Cameron Estates Community Services District as
follows:

1.	The Board shall submit to the voters the question of whether to increase a special tax within the District for the purpose of needed
improvements, upgrades and an increased level of maintenance of the roads within the District.

2.	A measure shall be placed on the ballot at the statewide general election to be held on November 8, 2016, for an increase of the
special tax within the boundaries of the District to fund road improvements, upgrades and increased maintenance.

3.	The measure shall appear on the ballot in substantially the following form:

“Shall the Cameron Estates Community Services District levy a special tax for the purpose of providing needed road
improvements, upgrades, and maintenance at an annual rate not to exceed an increase of $150.00 per year per parcel over and
above the current rate, for a total not to exceed $400.00 per parcel per year?”

4.	A certified copy of this Resolution shall be delivered to the Office of the El Dorado County Clerk and the County Clerk shall be directed
to conduct said election pursuant to applicable laws of the State of California.

5.	In accordance with applicable laws, the Cameron Estates Community Services District shall reimburse the County of El Dorado for the
costs of such election.

6.	If approved by the electorate as set forth above, said special tax shall be levied and collected in accordance with this resolution and
shall be collected in the same manner and subject to the same penalty as, or with, other charges and taxes fixed and collected by the
District or by the County of El Dorado.

7.	Pursuant to Government Code § 50075.1 the specific purposes of the special taxes are hereby identified as providing road
improvements, upgrades, and maintenance within the District.

8.	The proceeds of the special tax shall only be applied to the specific purposes identified above and the proceeds of the special tax shall
be deposited into the existing special account.

9.	The District shall prepare an annual report pursuant to Government Code § 50075.3 to determine the amount of funds collected and
expended and to identify the purpose for which the special tax funds have been expended.

10.	In the event of any ambiguity, uncertainty or conflict regarding the application of the special tax to a particular parcel of land, such
ambiguity shall be resolved by formal motion of the Board of Directors of the Cameron Estates Community Services District.

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE K

This measure, if approved by 2/3 of the voters voting on the measure, would authorize a special tax on parcels of real property in the
Cameron Estates Community Services District (“District”), to be used for the costs to fund improvements and upgrades to the roads and to
increase the level of maintenance of the roads within the District.

This special tax increase would be in an amount not to exceed $400 per parcel per year. The special tax authorized by this measure would
commence on July 1,2017 and would replace an existing special tax of $250 imposed on parcels within the District.

The special tax may be listed as a separate item on the county property tax bill for each affected parcel of land, and will be collected in the
same way as the general property tax. All laws applicable to the levy, collection, and enforcement of county property taxes, including the
provisions for penalties and the procedures for sale of the property in case of delinquency, may also apply to the special tax.

State law requires the proceeds from the special tax be applied only to the identified purposes, and that an annual report be made indicating
the amount of funds collected and expended and the status of any project required or authorized to be funded by the proceeds.

This measure was placed on the ballot by Resolution No. 2016-01 of the Board of Directors of the District.

A “YES” vote is a vote to authorize an increase in the annual special tax by $150.00 per parcel per year.

A “NO” vote is a vote against an increase in the annual special tax.

Michael J. Ciccozzi, County Counsel

09-921

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE K  The current yearly assessment is $250.00 per parcel and has been that same amount for over 30 years. Measure K asks the voters for an additional $150.00 in the yearly assessment in order to provide for needed road improvements, upgrades, and maintenance for the 16 miles of roadways in the District. If Measure K passes, then the District would be able to fill potholes that surface during the year, perform the needed improvements to preserve and protect the roadways, maintain culverts and road edges, and decrease drainage problems that erode the roadways.  Doris Miller, Director David Proft, Director James Sholl, Director Ken Moonitz, Director Eva Robertson, Director	ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE K  During the regular meeting in May of 2016 the Cameron Estate Community Services District Board stated they had not conducted a study to determine the need for an increase in the District’s special tax, nor did they have a business plan for the use of the money if the measure passed. The requested amount was arbitrarily selected as they have done in the past.  In 2006 Measure H would have permanently increased the special tax by $950 per parcel to $1200 per residential parcel per year. The increased taxes would have made it possible to make major improvements in all the District roads. Once the District roads were improved road maintenance costs would have been significantly reduced below current annual needs. A temporary increase in the special tax would have been more appropriate, yet there was no sunset clause for the proposed increase.  Consider as an example that in 1989 EID had Teichert completely rebuild Cameron Road after their sewer project was completed. Cameron Road has required almost zero maintenance over the past 27 years.  Working within the current budget, the District was able to upgrade part of Flying C Road. Now Flying C from Cambridge to Cameron Road is virtually maintenance free. There are other District roads that could be upgraded in a similar fashion within the current budget. Every mile of improved roads reduces the need for maintenance and increases the funds available for additional improvements.  The voters did not approve Measure D in 2014 for an increase of $100, why would we approve an increase of $150 in 2016. Oil is currently less than half of its price in 2014.  Vote No on Measure K  David L Leippe
REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE K  True, the District’s special tax per parcel has not changed in over 30 years. However, since the inception of Cameron Estates the number of parcels has increased over 40% from 200 parcels to over 280 parcels. Since the last voter approved special tax in 1989 the revenues have increased by property annexations. The pocket annexation in 1989 added 39 parcels or approximately a 20% increase in parcels and revenue.  The District doesn’t mention the other source of revenue, ad valorem taxes. Ad valorem taxes are based upon property values. Ad valorem taxes increase with annexations, increasing property values, and improved parcels.  According to District documents revenues from special taxes have increased from $63,000 in 1989 to $72,000 in 2015, or about 114%. Ad valorem tax dollars increased from $25,900 in 1989 to $82,115 in 2015, or about 317%. Total revenues have increased from about $110,000 in 1989 to about $353,000 in 2015, or about 315%.  The special tax should not be increased indefinitely for capital improvements.  As more miles of district roads are improved the need for maintenance decreases.  If increased funding is proven to be necessary for capital improvements the funding should have a sunset.  When oil prices were twice as high, the CECSD found ways with the current revenues to make significant improvements to Flying C Road and other problem areas.  Vote No on Measure K  David L Leippe	REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE K  Road work is discussed at every Board meeting and the Directors have been working for years surveying roads and prioritizing work to make the difficult decisions on what projects to do. We are shocked that anyone would say the Board doesn’t have a plan when roads are discussed at every meeting in order to formulate the plan and strategy that makes up the yearly road bid package.  The decision to ask voters for an additional $150 per year for road maintenance was not arbitrary and was discussed at length at the March meeting. Directors discussed that this increase would give the District an additional $43,650 per year so that each year potholes could be fixed, we could perform needed crack sealing, drainage problems could be fixed, and any surplus be carried over for a future large project.  Director reports regularly given at meetings show that several roads are failing due to ditch, shoulder backing and drainage problems, and deteriorating culverts causing water to undermine roads. These issues need to be fixed soon and this has nothing to do with oil prices. Even the good roads need maintenance, including Cameron, Strollng Hills, and Flying C Roads which required crack sealing, culvert and drainage repair since 2013 amounting to $77,192. That is not zero spending and the roads are not maintenance free.  David Proft, Director Doris Miller, Director Ken Moonitz, Director James Sholl, Director

HELPFUL HINTS TO MAKE ELECTION DAY EASIER

TIPS FOR PRECINCT VOTERS:

Precinct officers are citizens like you. They sincerely want to make voting easy while protecting against
voter fraud. Here are some ideas for you to make Election Day easier for all.

>	Polling Place locations may change at each election. Your polling place is listed on your voter
information card.

>	If you are not planning on voting by mail, check to make sure you know where your polling place is
located. If you are not sure how to find your polling place, check a map or call (530) 621-7480.

>	Go to the polls prepared. Read and mark your sample ballot prior to Election Day and take it with
you to refer to while you are in the voting booth. This is especially helpful with a lengthy ballot.

>	If you are a first time voter, be prepared to show identification.

TIPS FOR VOTE BY MAIL VOTERS

With all the convenience of voting by mail, there is always the possibility of having problems with your
ballot. Common problems with the vote by mail process include:

>	Not signing the ballot envelope

>	Signing the envelope with a scribble instead of your signature used when registering to vote

>	Signing both yours and a family members envelope

These common problems can be largely avoided by remembering to take one quick look over the
envelopes before mailing or dropping them off, to ensure they are all signed next to the red “X”, and signed
by the right person.

If you are concerned that your signature has changed, drop off your ballot in person and fill out a voter
registration card at the same time, to ensure your most recent signature is on file.

PROVISIONAL VOTING AT THE POLLING PLACE

California has a provisional voting process to handle voters whose eligibility to vote cannot be determined
at the polling place. The precinct officer will provide the voter a provisional ballot and written instructions
regarding the process. After voting and securing the ballot in the provisional ballot envelope the voter will
be handed the Voter Receipt from the back of the Provisional Envelope. After the election, the voter may
use the receipt to call the El Dorado County Elections Office at (800) 730-4322 to find out whether their
provisional ballot was counted, and if not, why.

Reasons for provisional voting:

>	The voter’s name is not listed on the Voter Roster List at the precinct.

>	The voter has moved within the county but did not re-register to vote.

>	The voter who’s name is listed on the Voter Roster List as receiving an Absentee Ballot but, for
whatever reason, is unable to surrender it.

>	The Voter is listed on the Voter Roster List and is required to show proof of identification for being a
First Time Federal Election Voter but is unable to show proof.

F-01