From Voter's Edge

City of Placerville

Measure L Ordinance - 2/3 Approval
Required

Shall an ordinance be approved that would enact a temporary one-half of one percent (0.50%)
transactions and use tax within the City?

Impartial analysis / Proposal

The City Council of the City of Placerville has placed Measure L on the November 8, 2016,
ballot to ask voters to approve an ordinance that would enact a temporary one-half of one percent
(0.50%) transactions and use tax within the City. If approved, the tax would add a half cent to the
price of an item that costs a dollar, or $0.50 to the price of an item that costs $100.

The existing “sales tax” is a combination of “sales and use tax” and “transactions and use tax.”
With some exceptions, both are levied on the sale or use of tangible personal property sold at
retail.

Currently, the tax on retail sales in Placerville is 8.0% of the purchase price of an item.
Placerville’s current sales tax rate includes the quarter cent increase in the state sales tax rate
adopted by the state electorate in November, 2012. The November, 2012, quarter cent increase is
set to expire on December 31, 2016.

However, on the November, 2016, statewide ballot is Proposition 30 which, if adopted, will
extend the one-quarter of one percent increase enacted in November, 2012, for another four (4)
years. Thus, if Proposition 30 and Measure L both pass, the sales tax rate in the City of
Placerville would be 8.5%.

If Proposition 30 does not pass and Measure L passes, the sales tax rate in the City would be
8.25%.

If Measure L does not pass and Proposition 30 passes, the sales tax rate in the City would remain
at 8.0%.

If Measure L passes and Proposition 30 does not pass, the sales tax rate would be 8.25%, and if
neither Measure L nor Proposition 30 pass, the sales tax rate would reduce to 7.75%.

Measure L contains an expenditure plan which requires that the revenue from the tax may only
be used to pay for repair, replacement, maintenance, and improvement of City water, sewer and

storm drain systems, and for the repair, replacement, maintenance, and improvement of existing
streets in the City.

Measure L also requires that the City Council appoint a five-person committee made up of
members of the public to review and report on the revenue and expenditure of funds from the
tax.

If adopted, the tax would become effective April 1, 2017, and would automatically terminate
twenty years after collection begins, unless extended by the voters.

A “Yes” vote is a vote to approve the enactment of the half-cent tax for 20 years. A “No” vote is
a vote against the tax. Measure L will be approved if it receives a two-thirds (2/3) majority of
“Yes” votes.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure L. If you desire a copy of the ordinance
or measure, please call the Placerville City Clerk at 530-642-5531 and a copy will be mailed to
you at no cost.

— John Driscoll, City Attorney City of Placerville
Arguments FOR

PLACERVILLE IS IN A CRISIS: City roads are falling apart. Our water and sewer pipes are
leaking. Placerville is $45.5 Million behind in critical road and sewer/water repairs, and Measure
L can change that!

This Vi 0 specific sales tax will provide the additional $2 million we need each year to stop the
immediate deterioration and start improving our roads and pipes.

IF YOU APPROVE MEASURE L...

•	ALL of the money will pay for the repair/maintenance of
Placerville’s roads and Placerville’s sewer/water systems.

•	The money cannot be diverted for any other purpose.

•	The money will only be used inside the Placerville city limits.

•	The money cannot be used to build new roads for new development!

•	This measure will end in 20 years.

•	A citizen oversight committee will make sure the money is used according to these purposes.

IF YOU DON’T APPROVE MEASURE L...

•	In 10 years, the average condition of Placerville roads will be failed.

•	We will continue to lose 25% of our water.

•	Sewer spills will continue to trigger costly State and Federal fines.

•	Emergency repairs will be significantly more expensive when public health or the environment
is threatened.

•	There will be NO money for road repair or replacement.

MEASURE L CAN FIX OUR ROADS AND PIPES and will spread the cost of repair fairly for
EVERYONE that uses Placerville’s infrastructure. If we don’t pass this sales tax, YOU, as a
Placerville Resident, will have to pay 100% of the repairs and maintenance costs!

MEASURE L REQUIRES A 2/3 VOTE TO PASS. Please VOTE YES to fix Placerville’s Roads
and Pipes.

For more information visit www.FixPlacervilleRoads.com.

Trisha Wilkins, Mayor, City of Placerville
Sue Rodman, Retired Forest Service
Jackie Neau, Community Activist
Earl R. Washburn, MD, retired pediatrician
John Mosbacher, Placerville Business Owner
Arguments AGAINST

The Placerville City Council sought a sales tax hike two years ago, and voters said NO. They are
back to seek more taxes, again. The real problem; the City’s spends too much money and fails to
make substantial spending cuts. They should learn to do what we all have to do in our lives,
spend within our means.

Placerville, for example, battled voters for eight years to build a roundabout at Cedar Ravine and
Main Street that we did not want, need or could afford. They wasted OUR money doing that. The
City Council spends about $100,000 a year on health insurance plans for themselves. Despite
public wishes, they fought for redevelopment, spending nearly a half million of our tax money
on that boondoggle. The list goes on.

Raising sales taxes will put local businesses at a disadvantage with competitors outside the city.
And it will cause this economic pain for 20 years! Businesses have been slowly recovering from

the worst economic downturn since the great depression. Send a message, let local tax and spend
politicians know we want a cutback in spending.

Vote No on Measure L.

Vote NO on Measure L Committee

Ben Leveroni, Merchant

Dottie McKenzie, Merchant

Kirk McKenzie, Merchant

Paula Gendron, Merchant

Sierra Hauser, Merchant

Replies to Arguments FOR

Arguments made now for Measure L were used two years ago when the same big spenders
pushed another tax hike. The city wasted nearly $14,000 of your taxes for a public opinion poll
used to market that tax scheme and nearly 2/3rds polled said they’d back it. But by the time all
votes were in, voters said NO.

The city used scare stories and bogus claims to push for state plans to close our historic
courthouse and build a $90,000 million judicial center at the west end that would cost local tax
dollars for needed infrastructure. $3million of your tax dollars has been budgeted just to build the
driveway for that boondoggle.

Why should they be believed now? Just refinancing the mortgage on city hall alone will generate
approximately $200,000. Council members did not tell you about their gold plated insurance
plans costing us $100,000 a year, did they?

Measure L proponents falsely claim this increase “will spread the cost fairly” for road repairs.
Not true! It imposes an oppressively anticompetitive burden on local small businesses already hit
hard by recession. Shoppers would be able to cross the city limits and pay a lower sales tax. And
for 20 years!

One signer of the yes arguments told a public meeting that views of local merchants don’t count
because “most of them don’t live in the city.” Measure L is anti-small business and encourages
more wasteful spending.

Send tax and spend politicians a message. Vote NO on Measure L.

Vote NO on Measure L Committee

Pat Washington, Merchant
Laura Whittaker, Merchant
Paula Gendron, Merchant
Mark Gendron, Merchant
Kirk Smith, Property Manager
Replies to Arguments AGAINST

Empty slogans about “spending within our means” won’t fix roads and pipes! There isn’t enough
money in the City’s budget to fund OVER $45 MILLION for critical repairs to Placerville’s
crumbling roads and failing water and sewer pipes.

Here’s what opponents don’t tell you:

•	They have NO PLAN to fix Placerville’s roads and pipes.

•	Measure L is THE PLAN to provide $2 million/year that can ONLY be spent to fix roads,
sewers, and water pipes in the city limits.

•	YES on Measure L will cost about $66 per year per household.

•	NO on Measure L will cost about $287 per household per year in water/sewer rate increases
with no money for road repairs.

•	70% of people coming into Placerville every day don’t live here! A sales tax is the ONLY way
for them to contribute to Placerville’s road maintenance.

•	Over 75% of Placerville’s roads have FAILED or are AT RISK!

•	Has a tourist ever decided not to buy something because of the sales tax? Measure L sales tax
rate will still be comparable: Placerville 8.5 Rancho Cordova and Sacramento 8.5 Folsom 8.0

•	Measure I lost by 9 votes in 2014. It was a General Tax that could be used for any purpose.

•	The City listened to residents’ input and proposed the Measure L SPECIFIC Tax which, by
law, can only fix our roads and pipes!

We are Placerville residents concerned about preserving and improving our historic town. Join
your neighbors; vote YES on Measure L.

Dennis Thomas, Downtown Merchant

Kathi Lishman, Retired Teacher
David Zelinsky, Community Volunteer
Ben Carter, Restaurant Owner
Thomas D. Cumpston, Local Attorney
Proposed legislation

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF PLACERVILLE IMPOSING A TRANSACTIONS
AND USE TAX

TO BE ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION

WHEREAS, for the past 10 years, sales tax and gas tax funding for maintenance of roads has
declined due to the economy and more efficient vehicles; and

WHEREAS, the condition of City streets and roads is also declining as shown in the City’s
Pavement Management study. From 2007 to2016 the cost of deferred maintenance increased
from $7 million to $21 million and continues to grow; and

WHEREAS, City’s Pavement Management Study recommends funding of $930,000 per year to
improve roads stop the decline in pavement condition and to reduce the amount of deferred
maintenance; and

WHEREAS, the City currently has available approximately $200,000 per year for streets and
road maintenance; and

WHEREAS, if an alternative revenue source is not identified the City’s streets and roads will
continue to deteriorate; and

WHEREAS, City water and sewer lines have deteriorated to a point where immediate action is
necessary to repair and replace lines; and

WHEREAS, the City’s Capital Improvement Program for water and sewer improvements has
identified deferred maintenance of over $28.5 million; and

WHEREAS, at a public hearing on May 24, 2016, the Council considered calling an election to
seek voter approval of a proposed special transactions and use tax (or “sales tax”), as authorized
by Revenue and Taxation Code section 7285.91; and

WHEREAS, after that hearing, the City Council concluded that all of the information presented
indicated that in order to create an additional source of revenue to assist with funding for repair,
maintenance and replacement of existing streets, water and sewer facilities, the Council should
call an election to ask the voters of the City to approve a 20-year local transactions and use tax of
one-half percent (0.5%); and

WHEREAS, on the basis of the foregoing, the City Council determined that it was appropriate to
place a measure regarding a special transactions and use (sales) tax before the voters at the
November 8, 2016 general election; and

WHEREAS, the tax to be submitted, if approved, would be imposed on the sale of tangible
personal property and the storage, use, or other consumption of such property. The tax rate
would be one-half of one percent (0.5%) (a half cent for each dollar) of the sales price of the
property. The tax revenue would be collected by the State Board of Equalization and remitted to
the City. The tax would be in effect for 20 years, and would then expire automatically, unless
extended by the voters. The tax shall be approved if the measure receives at least a two-thirds
majority of those voting on the measure; and

WHEREAS, the Placerville City Council is authorized by California Elections Code Section
9222 to place measures before the voters; and

WHEREAS, Elections Code Sections 9281 through 9287 set forth the procedures for arguments
in favor of and in opposition to any City measure and for rebuttal arguments; and

WHEREAS, it is desirable that the election be consolidated with the statewide election to be held
on the same date and that within the City, the precincts, polling places and election officers of
the two elections be the same, and that the County Elections Department of the County of El
Dorado canvass the returns of the election and that the election be held in all respects as if there
were only one election;

The People and the City Council of the City of Placerville do ordain as follows:

Section 1: Title V of the City Code shall be amended to add a new Chapter 27, entitled “City of
Placerville Special Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance for Water, Sewer, Storm Drain and
Streets Facilities,” to read as follows:

“5-27-1: TITLE: This ordinance shall be known as the City of Placerville Special Transactions
and Use Tax Ordinance for Water, Sewer, Storm Drain and Streets Facilities. The City of
Placerville hereinafter shall be called "City." This ordinance shall be applicable in the
incorporated territory of the City.

5-27-2: OPERATIVE DATE: "Operative Date" means the first day of the first calendar quarter
commencing more than 110 days after the adoption of this ordinance, the date of such adoption
being as set forth below.

5-27-3: PURPOSE: This ordinance is adopted to achieve the following, among other purposes,
and directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish those purposes:

(A)	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the provisions of Part 1.6
(commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code and Section
7285.91 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 which authorizes the City to adopt this tax ordinance which
shall be operative if a two-thirds majority of the electors voting on the measure vote to approve
the imposition of the tax at an election called for that purpose.

(B)	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates provisions identical to
those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California insofar as those provisions are not
inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code.

(C)	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax and provides a
measure therefore that can be administered and collected by the State Board of Equalization in a
manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and requires the least possible deviation from,
the existing statutory and administrative procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization
in administering and collecting the California State Sales and Use Taxes.

(D)	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be administered in a manner
that will, to the greatest degree possible, be consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division
2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting the transactions and use
taxes, and at the same time, minimize the burden of recordkeeping upon persons subject to
taxation under the provisions of this ordinance.

5-27-4: CONTRACT WITH STATE: Prior to the operative date, the City shall contract with the
State Board of Equalization to perform all functions incident to the administration and operation
of this transactions and use tax ordinance; provided, that if the City shall not have contracted
with the State Board of Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract
and in such a case the operative date shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter following
the execution of such a contract.

5-27-5: TRANSACTIONS TAX RATE: For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at
retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated territory of the City at the
rate of one-half of one percent (0.5%) of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all
tangible personal property sold at retail in said territory on and after the operative date of this
ordinance.

5-27-6: PLACE OF SALE: For the purposes of this ordinance, all retail sales are consummated
at the place of business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is delivered by
the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for delivery to an
out-of-state destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery charges, when
such charges are subject to the state sales and use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is

made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the state or has more than one
place of business, the place or places at which the retail sales are consummated shall be
determined under rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the State Board of
Equalization.

5-27-7: USE TAX RATE: An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other
consumption in the City of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on and after
the operative date of this ordinance for storage, use or other consumption in said territory at the
rate of one-half of one percent (0.5%) of the sales price of the property. The sales price shall
include delivery charges when such charges are subject to state sales or use tax regardless of the
place to which delivery is made.

5-27-8: ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW: Except as otherwise provided in this
ordinance and except insofar as they are inconsistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2
of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing with Section
6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a part of
this ordinance as though fully set forth herein.

5-27-9: LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF STATE LAW AND COLLECTION OF USE
TAXES: In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code:

(A)	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the name of
this City shall be substituted therefore. However, the substitution shall not be made when:

1.	The word "State" is used as a part of the title of the State Controller, State Treasurer, Victim
Compensations and Government Claims Board, State Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or
the Constitution of the State of California;

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against this City or any
agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by or against the State Board of Equalization, in
performing the functions incident to the administration or operation of this ordinance.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to, sections referring to the exterior
boundaries of the State of California, where the result of the substitution would be to:

(a)	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other
consumption of tangible personal property which would not otherwise be exempt from this tax
while such sales, storage, use or other consumption remain subject to tax by the State under the
provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code; or

(b)	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible
personal property which would not be subject to tax by the state under the said provision of that
code.

4.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711, 6715, 6737, 6797 or 6828
of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

(B)	The word "City" shall be substituted for the word "State" in the phrase "retailer engaged in
business in this State" in Section 6203 and in the definition of that phrase in Section 6203.

5-27-10: PERMIT NOT REQUIRED: If a seller's permit has been issued to a retailer under
Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional transactor's permit shall not be
required by this ordinance.

5-27-11: EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS:

(A)	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the use tax the amount
of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or by any city, city and county, or
county pursuant to the Bradley-Bums Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the amount of
any state-administered transactions or use tax.

(B)	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax the gross
receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum products, to operators of
aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the county in which the sale is made and
directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property
under the authority of the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the City which is shipped to a point outside the City,
pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by the retailer or his agent, or by
delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at such point. For the purposes of
this paragraph, delivery to a point outside the City shall be satisfied:

(a)	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject to registration pursuant to
Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed
in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels
registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by
registration to an out-of-City address and by a declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the
buyer, stating that such address is, in fact, his or her principal place of residence; and

(b)	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of business out-of-City and
declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, that the vehicle will be operated from
that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to furnish the property for a
fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

4. A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such property, for any
period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by the
lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, the sale or lease of tangible
personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any
period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to
terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

(C)	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this ordinance, the storage, use or other
consumption in this City of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a transactions tax under any
state-administered transactions and use tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of aircraft and used or
consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common
carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under a certificate of public convenience
and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign
government. This exemption is in addition to the exemptions provided in Sections 6366 and
6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract
entered into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the tangible personal property
arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such property for any period of time for
which the lessee is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by a lease prior to the
operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, storage, use, or other
consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power over, tangible personal property
shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for
which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or
lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in business in the City shall not be
required to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible personal property, unless the retailer
ships or delivers the property into the City or participates within the City in making the sale of
the property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving the order, either directly or
indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer in the City or through any representative, agent,
canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the City under the authority of the retailer.

7.	"A retailer engaged in business in the City” shall also include any retailer of any of the
following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section
4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of

the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing
with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to collect use tax from
any purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the City.

(C)	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit against that tax any
transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district imposing, or retailer
liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code
with respect to the sale to the person of the property the storage, use or other consumption of
which is subject to the use tax.

5-27-12: AMENDMENTS: All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this ordinance to
Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and which
are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code,
and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code,
shall automatically become a part of this ordinance, provided however, that no such amendment
shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this ordinance.

5-27-13: ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN: No injunction or writ of mandate or other
legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit, action or proceeding in any court against the
State or the City, or against any officer of the State or the City, to prevent or enjoin the collection
under this ordinance, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or
any amount of tax required to be collected.

5-27-14: CITIZENS OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE: There shall be a five-person committee of
members of the public to review and report on the revenue and expenditure of funds from the tax
adopted by this Chapter. Prior to the operative date, the City Council shall adopt a resolution
establishing the composition of the committee and defining the scope of its responsibilities. Also
prior to the operative date, the City Council shall appoint at least a quorum of the members of the
committee; the Council shall complete the appointment of members of the committee by the end
of fiscal year 2017.

5-27-15: EXPENDITURE PLAN: The expenditure plan required by Revenue and Taxation Code
Section 7285.91(c) for the revenue from the tax approved by this Chapter is the following: The
City may use revenue from the tax only to pay for repair, replacement, maintenance, and
improvement of Water, Sewer and Storm Drain systems, and for the repair, replacement,
maintenance, and improvement of existing Streets.

5-27-16: TERMINATION DATE: The authority to levy the tax imposed by this ordinance shall
expire on the twentieth anniversary of the last day of the calendar quarter following the operative
date.”

Section 2: ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE: The findings for this ordinance, in compliance
with the California Environmental Quality Act (“CEQA”), are the same as those set forth in the
City’s Resolution No. calling for an election on this ordinance. The CEQA findings in
Resolution No. are incorporated herein by reference.

Section 3: SEVERABILITY: If any provision of this ordinance or the application thereof to any
person or circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the ordinance and the application of such
provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

Section 4: EFFECTIVE DATE: This ordinance relates to the levying and collecting of the City’s
transactions and use taxes and shall take effect immediately.