Section

Ballot Measures-W	7

City of Costa Mesa, Allow Operation of up to Four
w Licensed Medical Marijuana Businesses in the City of
Costa Mesa

Shall the ordinance, to allow operation of up to four medical marijuana businesses with: six percent tax on medical
marijuana (estimated annual tax revenues $24,000 to $456,000); required industry specific licenses; required operator
permits; regulations subject to change by City Council including increasing businesses; precedence to prior businesses;
and locations limited to commercial and industrial areas, be adopted?

What your vote means	
YES	NO
A "Yes" is a vote to adopt an ordinance to allow operation of up to four medical marijuana businesses, including dispensaries, with: six percent tax on medical marijuana (estimated annual tax revenues $24,000 to $456,000); required industry specific licenses; required operator permits; regulations subject to change by City Council including increasing businesses; precedence to prior businesses; and locations limited to commercial and industrial areas.	A "No" is a vote not to adopt the ordinance proposed by the measure to Allow Operation of up to Four Licensed Medical Marijuana Businesses in the City of Costa Mesa.

For and against

FOR	AGAINST
No argument was filed in favor of Measure W	Robert Taft  Proponent of Measure V  Randall T. Longwith Drafter of Measure V  Jim Righeimer  Mayor Pro Tern, City of Costa Mesa

Ballot Measures-W

Full Text of Measure W
City of Costa Mesa

AN INITIATIVE TO PROVIDE REVENUE TO COSTA MESA CITIZENS

Section

7

WHEREAS, the Costa Mesa Police Department ("CMPD") has reported that, as the number of marijuana dispensaries and commercial
growing operations proliferated without sufficient legal oversight, the City and its neighborhoods have experienced negative secondary effects,
including an increase in crime at certain locations associated with unregulated marijuana dispensaries;

WHEREAS, The League of California Cities and California Chief of Polices Association have authored statewide legislation, presented
by veteran State Senator Lou Correa to provide a clear road map for reasonable statewide implementation of Proposition 215 and the Medical
Marijuana Program Act of 2004 in California;

WHEREAS, legislation regulating the medical marijuana industry is supported by the Association for Los Angeles Deputy Sheriffs;
Association of Orange County Deputy Sheriffs; California Fraternal Order of Police; International Faith Based Coalition; Long Beach Police
Officers Association; Los Angeles County Professional Peace Officers Association; Los Angeles Police Protective League; Riverside Sheriffs
Association and Santa Ana Police Officers Association;

WHEREAS, it is in the interest of the citizens of Costa Mesa to have medical cooperatives operate with reasonable regulation that
mirror those put forward by The League of California Cities and California Chief of Polices Association in order to regulate the distribution of
medical marijuana, which if unregulated threatens the interests of local neighborhoods and dispensaries, as well as negatively impacting those
seriously ill residents of the City;

WHEREAS, the City has a substantial and clear interest in ensuring that medical marijuana is distributed in an orderly manner, in
protecting the public health, safety and welfare of its residents, its dispensaries, the neighborhoods in which Medical Cooperative operate,
while ensuring compassionate access by seriously ill residents to medical marijuana in accordance with the CUA and the MM PA;

WHEREAS, the City seeks to create a gross receipts tax on medical cooperative at a rate of $60 per $1,000 of gross receipts, which
will help to fund necessary general municipal services, which may include but is not limited to, code enforcement, building inspections, police
protection and crime suppression services, fire prevention and suppression services, which will facilitate the purposes of this law and which will
fund necessary services as determined by the City Council;

NOW, THEREFORE,

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF COSTA MESA HEREBY ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1. Code Amendment. Section 16-14, of Chapter II in Title 16 of the Costa Mesa Municipal code is hereby amended in its entirety to
read as follows:

(a)	The rate of sales tax and use tax imposed by this chapter shall be one per cent on all businesses except for medical cooperative.

(b)	Every person engaged in operating or otherwise conducting a business where marijuana is cultivated, distributed or transferred
pursuant to Title 9, Chapter VI shall pay a tax proportionate to gross receipts earned within the taxing jurisdiction at a rate of six
(6) per cent.

(c)	The City Council may impose the tax authorized by this section at a lower rate and may establish exemptions, incentives, or
other reductions as otherwise allowed by California law. No action by the Council under this paragraph shall prevent it from
later increasing the tax, up to six per cent, or removing any exemption, incentive, or reduction and restoring the maximum tax
specified in this section.

Section 2. Code Amendment. Row 31a of the Costa Mesa Land Use Matrix Table in section 13-30 of Chapter IV, Title 13, is hereby amended
to read as follows:

Section 13-30, Table 13-30, Row 31a

	Zones																				
LAND USES	R	R	R	R	A	C	C	C	C	T	M	M	P	P	P	P	P	P	1	1	P
	1	2	2	3	P	L	1	2	1	C	G	P	D	D	D	D	D	D	&	&	
		M	H						S				R	R	R	R	C	1	R	R	
		D	D										L	M	H	N				S	
													D	D	D	C					
																M					
31a. Medical cooperative (Subject to the requirements to TITLE 9, CHAPTER VI, Medical cooperative)					P	P	P	P	P	P	P	P					P	P			

Section 3. Code Amendment. TITLE 9 is hereby amended to include TITLE 9, Chapter VI, henceforth entitled "Medical Cooperative Regulations'
and is hereby amended in its entirety to read as follows:

Sec. 9-481. Purpose.

Section

Ballot Measures-W	7

The people of the city of Costa Mesa hereby declares that the purpose of the regulations in this chapter is to provide a uniform and
enforceable set of rules for the operation of medical cooperative, in compliance with state law and future state-wide regulation, to prevent the
proliferation of medical cooperatives, to tax the distribution of medical marijuana as well as to protect the public health, safety and welfare of
residents.

Sec. 9-482. Definitions.

The following terms and phrases, whenever used in this section, shall be construed as defined in this section:

(a)	"Medical cooperative" or "Cooperative" shall be defined in section 13-6 if Title 13 of the Costa Mesa Municipal Code.

(b)	"Building" means any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls, for the housing, shelter or enclosure of
persons, animals, chattels, or property of any kind.

(c)	"Live Scan" means a system for inkless electronic fingerprinting and the automated background check developed by
the California Department of Justice (DOJ) which involves digitizing fingerprints and electronically transmitting the
fingerprint image data along with personal descriptor information to computers at the DOJ for completion of a criminal
record check; or such other comparable inkless electronic fingerprinting and automated background check process as
determined by the City Council\

(d)	"Live Scan application" means a form developed by the City Clerk to request Live Scan services and to contain information
relevant to the Live Scan process.

(e)	"Location" means any parcel of land, whether vacant or occupied by a building, group of buildings, or accessory
buildings, and includes the buildings, structures, yards, open spaces, lot width, and lot area.

(f)	"Establishment" Includes any of the following:

a.	The opening or commencement of any such business as a new business;

b.	The conversion of an existing business, whether or not a medical cooperative, to any of the medical cooperative
defined herein;

c.	The addition of any of the medical cooperative defined herein to any other existing medical marijuana business; or

d.	The relocation of any such medical cooperative.

(g)	"Marijuana" shall be construed as defined in California Health and Safety Code Section 11018 and further shall
specifically include any product that contains marijuana or a derivative of marijuana.

(h)	"Operator" means any person with responsibility for the establishment, organization, registration, supervision, or
oversight of a medical cooperative, including but not limited to any person who performs the functions of president,
vice president, board member, director, owner, operating officer, financial officer, secretary, or treasurer of the medical
cooperative.

(i)	"Applicant." A person who is required to file an application for a license under this chapter, including an individual owner,
managing partner, officer of a corporation, or any other operator, manager, employee, or agent of a medical cooperative
or an operator of a medical cooperative.

(j)	"Licensee." The person or entity to which a medical cooperative license or medical cooperative operator's license is
issued.

(k)	"Chief of Police." The Chief of Police of the City of Costa Mesa or the authorized representatives thereof.

(l)	"Premises" means the space in any buildings of a medical cooperative together with the spaces within any structures,
yards, open spaces, lot width, and lot area at a location that is occupied or used in the operation of the medical
cooperative.

(m)	"Person" means any Cooperative, individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, association, joint stock company,
corporation, limited.

(n)	"Structure" means anything constructed or erected which is supported directly or indirectly on the ground, but not
including any vehicle.

(o)	"Vehicle" means a device by which any person or property may be propelled, moved, or drawn upon a street, including
but not limited to a device moved exclusively by human power.

(p)	The following words or phrases when used in this Section shall be construed as defined in California Health and Safety
Code Sections 1746,11362.5,11362.7 and 11834.02

a.	"Alcoholism or drug abuse recovery or treatment facility";

b.	"Hospice";

c.	"Identification card";

d.	"Person with an identification card"

e.	"Primary Caregiver"; and

f.	"Qualified Patient";

Sec. 9-483. Exceptions.

This chapter shall not apply to:

(a)	A health care facility licensed pursuant to Chapter 2 (commencing with Section 1250),

(b)	A residential care facility for persons with chronic life-threatening illness licensed pursuant to Chapter 3.01 (commencing
with Section 1568.01),

(c)	a residential care facility for the elderly licensed pursuant to Chapter 3.2 (commencing with Section 1569),

Section

Ballot Measures-W	7

(d)	a hospice, or a home health agency licensed pursuant to Chapter 8 (commencing with Section 1725), all of Division 2 of

the California Health and Safety Code where:

i.	a qualified patient or person with an identification care receives medical care or support services, or both, from
the clinic facility, hospice, or home health agency, and

ii.	the owner or operator, or one of not more than three employees designated by the owner or operator, of the
clinic, facility, hospice, or home health agency has been designated as a primary caregivers pursuant to California
Health and Safety Code Section 11362.7(d) by that qualified patient or person with an Identification care, or

(e)	Any vehicle during only that time reasonably required for its use by:

i.	A qualified patient or person with an identification card to transport marijuana for his or her personal medical
use, or

ii.	A primary caregiver to transport, distribute, deliver, or give away marijuana to a qualified patient or person with
an identification card who has designated the individual as a primary caregiver, of the personal medical use of
the qualified patient or person with an identification card, in accordance with California Health and Safety Code
Section 11362.76

Sec. 9-484. Zoning Requirements.

In addition to the requirements of this chapter, all medical cooperative shall comply with the requirements set forth in Article I, Chapter
IX, of Title 13 of the City of Costa Mesa Municipal Code.

Sec. 9-485. License required for each location; display of license.

A separate medical cooperative license is required for each location within the boundaries of the City of Costa Mesa at which a regulated
medical cooperative is to be established. The requirements of this chapter for a medical cooperative license are separate and in addition to
a business license, or business tax registration certificate, required under Chapter I of this code. Every regulated cooperative shall display its
license prominently in an area open to the public at each location, at all times when the location is open for business.

Sec. 9-486. Term of medical cooperative license.

An approved medical cooperative license shall be valid until revoked.

Sec. 9-487. Application for medical cooperative license.

(a)	An applicant requesting issuance or renewal of a medical cooperative license shall file a written, signed and verified
application or renewal application in a form provided by the Chief of Police. Each application shall be accompanied by a
non-refundable fee for filing or renewal in an amount determined by resolution of the city council, which fees will be used
to defray the costs of investigation, inspection and processing of such application. Such fee shall not exceed the reasonable
cost of investigation, inspection and processing of such application. License fees required under this chapter shall be in
addition to any license, permit or fee required under any other chapter or title of the City of Costa Mesa Municipal Code.

(b)	An application for a medical cooperative license shall contain the following information:

1.	The applicant shall be either a non-profit mutual benefit corporation or a statutory agricultural or consumer cooperative
incorporated in the state of California.

2.	The applicant's complete name, the date of its incorporation, evidence that the corporation is in good standing under
the laws of California, the names and capacity of all officers and directors, the name of the registered corporate agent
and the address of the registered office for service of process.

3.	If the applicant intends to operate the medical cooperative under a name other than that of the applicant, the applicant
shall file the fictitious name of the medical cooperative and show proof of registration of the fictitious name at the time
it submits its application.

4.	A description of the type of medical cooperative for which the license is requested and the proposed address where the
medical cooperative will operate, plus the names and addresses of the owners and lessors of the medical cooperative
site.

5.	The address to which notice of action on the application is to be mailed.

6.	The names of all operators who will manage the distribution of marijuana at the medical cooperative or cultivate
marijuana on behalf of the medical cooperative, who are required by section 9-490 to obtain a medical cooperative
operator permit.

i.	The medical marijuana collective shall make available to the Chief of Police the names of each person
who manages the dispensing of marijuana at the medical cooperative together with a successful Live
Scan background check of each such person.

1.	A unsuccessful or failed Live Scan is any Live Scan that shows a felony conviction having occurred
within the past 10 years and/or shows that the manager is currently on parole or probation for
the sale or distribution of a controlled substance;

7.	A certificate and straight-line drawing prepared within thirty (30) days prior to application depicting the building and the
portion thereof to be occupied by the medical cooperative, and; (1) the property line of any other medical cooperative
within one thousand (1,000) feet of the primary entrance of the medical cooperative and any private or public school;
and (2) the property lines of any public park, within one six hundred (600) feet of the primary entrance of the medical
cooperative; and the property lines of any residential zone which is abutting or across the street from a lot which the
medical cooperative for which the license is requested.

(c)	If the Chief of Police determines that the applicant has completed the application improperly, the Chief of Police shall
promptly notify the applicant of such fact and, on request of the applicant, grant the applicant an extension of time of ten (10)
days or less to complete the application properly. In addition, the applicant may request an extension, not to exceed ten (10)
days, of the time for the Chief of Police to act on the application. The time period for granting or denying a license shall be

Ballot Measures-W

Section

7

stayed during the period in which the applicant is granted an extension of time.

(d)	The fact that an applicant possesses other types of state or city permits or licenses does not exempt the applicant from the
requirement of obtaining a medical cooperative license.

Sec. 9-488. Investigation and action on medical cooperative license application.

(a)	Upon receipt of a completed application and payment of the application and license fees, the Chief of Police shall
immediately stamp the application as received and promptly Investigate the information contained in the application to
determine whether the applicant shall be issued a medical cooperative license.

(b)	Within thirty (30) days of receipt of the completed application, the Chief of Police shall complete the investigation, grant
or deny the application in accordance with the provisions of this section, and so notify the applicant as follows:

1.	The Chief of Police shall write or stamp "Granted" or "Denied" on the application and date and sign such
notation.

2.	If the application is denied, the Chief of Police shall attach to the application a statement of the reasons for
denial

3.	If the application is granted, the Chief of Police shall attach to the application a medical cooperative license.

4.	The application as granted or denied and the license, if any, shall be placed in the United States mail, first class
postage prepaid, addressed to the applicant at the address stated in the application.

5.	The Chief of Police shall grant the application and issue the medical cooperative license upon findings that the
proposed business meets the locational criteria of section 13-132 of Title 13; and that the applicant has met all
of the development and performance standards and requirements of section 9-494(g) of this chapter, unless the
application is denied for one (1) or more of the reasons set forth in section 9-489.

(c)	If the Chief of Police neither grants the application within thirty (30) days after it is stamped as received, the application
shall deemed granted and the Chief of Police shall issue of a medical cooperative license.

1. The Chief of Police shall issue no more than four (4) medical cooperative licenses, subject to subsection
Sec. 9-488(c)l(i). If the number of licensed medical cooperative fall below four (4), then the City shall issue
additional business licenses pursuant to the terms of this Chapter.

i. The City Council shall have the discretion to increase, but not decrease, the number of licenses issued by
the city Finance Director pursuant to the terms of this Chapter.

(d)	Medical cooperative priority review

1. Beginning on the date that is thirty (30) days after the effective date of this ordinance, until the date that is forty-
five (45) days after the effective date of this ordinance, an applicant who meets the following requirements may
submit an application for priority review. The applicant requirements for priority review are as follows:

i.	applicant is an active California non-profit mutual benefit corporation or non-profit agricultural
cooperative or non-profit consumer cooperative, that was incorporated prior to May 22, 2014;

ii.	the applicant has listed with the secretary of state a principal place of business in the City of Costa Mesa;

iii.	The applicant has been issued or has applied for a City of Costa Mesa business license, issued in the
name of the entity, for the purpose of providing home care or therapeutic services, and the submissions
of the application or issuance of license occurred prior to May 22, 2014;

iv.	the applicant, or an officer or director of the applicant, maintains a lease or rental agreement in the City
of Costa Mesa with a possession or start date prior to May 22, 2014; and

v.	the non-profit mutual benefit corporation or non-profit agricultural cooperative or non-profit consumer
cooperative maintains a California re-sellers permit issued in the name of the entity at its principal place
of business in the City of Costa Mesa, prior to May 22, 2014.

Sec. 9-489. Denial of application for medical cooperative license.

(a)	The Police department shall deny the application for any of the following reasons:

1.	That the building, structure, equipment and location used by the business for which a license is required herein
do not comply with the requirements and standards set for in section 9-494,

2.	That the applicant, his or her employee, agent, partner, director, officer, stockholder or manager has knowingly
made any false, misleading or fraudulent statement of material fact in the application for a license or in any
report or record required to be filed with the police department or other department of the city.

3.	That the applicant has had any type of medical cooperative license revoked by any public entity within two (2)
years of the date of the application.

4.	Within ten (10) years immediately preceding the date of the filing of the application for a license under this
chapter, the director or officer of applicant has been convicted of a felony.

5.	That on the date that the business for which a license is required herein commences, and thereafter, there will
be no responsible adult on the premises to act as manager at all times during which the business is open.

6.	The required application fees have not been paid.

(b)	In the case of the Chief of Police not acting within the time period under section 9-487(d), the Chief of Police shall grant
the application and issue the license.

Sec. 9-490. Medical cooperative operator permit.

(a)	No person shall engage in or participate as an operator of medical cooperative, without a valid medical cooperative
operator permit issued by the city. All persons who have been issued a medical cooperative operator shall promptly
supplement the information provided as part of the application for the license required by section 9-488, with the
names of all operators required to obtain a medical cooperative operator permit, within thirty (30) days of any change
in the information originally submitted. Failure to submit such changes shall be grounds for suspension of the medical
cooperative license.

(b)	The Chief of Police shall grant, deny and renew medical cooperative operator permits.

Section

Ballot Measures-W	7

(c)	The application for a license shall be made on a form provided by the Chief of Police. An original and two (2) copies of

the completed and sworn license application shall be filed with the Chief of Police.

(d)	The completed application shall contain the following information and be accompanied by the following documents:

1.	The applicant's legal name and any other names (including aliases) used by the applicant;

2.	Age, date and place of birth;

3.	Height, weight, hair and eye color;

4.	Present residence address and telephone number;

5.	Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of felony within ten years of the application date;

6.	Proof of a Live Scan background check for all felony convictions within ten (10) years of the application;

7.	State driver's license or identification number;

8.	Satisfactory written proof that the applicant is at least eighteen (18) years of age;

9.	The applicant's fingerprints on a form provided by the police department, and a color photograph clearly showing
the applicant's face. Any fees for the photographs and fingerprints shall be paid by the applicant;

10.	If the application is made for the purpose of renewing a license, the applicant shall attach a copy of the license to
be renewed.

11.	The completed application shall be accompanied by a non-refundable application fee. The amount of the fee shall
be set by resolution of the city council.

12.	Upon receipt of an application and payment of the application fees, the Chief of Police shall immediately stamp the
application as received and promptly investigate the application.

13.	If the Chief of Police determines that the applicant has completed the application improperly, the Chief of Police
shall promptly notify the applicant of such fact and grant the applicant an extension of time of not more than ten
(10) days to complete the application properly. In addition, the applicant may request an extension, not to exceed
ten (10) days, of the time for the city manager to act on the application. The time period for granting or denying a
license shall be stayed during the period in which the application is granted an extension of time.

Sec. 9-491. Investigation and action on application for medical cooperative operator permit.

(a)	Within fifteen (15) days after receipt of the properly completed application, the Chief of Police shall grant or deny the application
and so notify the applicant as follows:

a.	The Chief of Police shall write or stamp "Granted" or "Denied" on the application and date and sign such notation.

b.	If the application is denied, the Chief of Police shall attach to the application a statement of the reasons for denial.

c.	If the application is granted, the Chief of Police shall attach to the application a medical cooperative operator permit.

d.	The application as granted or denied and the license, if any, shall be placed in the United States mail, first class postage
prepaid, addressed to the applicant at the residence address stated in the application.

e.	The Chief of Police shall grant the application and issue the license unless the application is denied for one (1) or more
of the reasons set forth in subsection 9-491(f) of this section.

i. If the Chief of Police neither grants nor denies the application within fifteen (15) days after it is stamped as
received, the application shall be forwarded to the city finance department for issuance of a operator license.

f.	The Chief of Police shall deny the application for any of the following reasons:

i.	The applicant has knowingly made any false, misleading, or fraudulent statement of a material fact in the
application for a license or in any report or document required to be filed with the application;

ii.	The applicant is under twenty-one (21) years of age;

iii.	The applicant has been convicted of any felony within the last ten (10) years. A license may be issued to
any person convicted of a felony if the conviction occurred more than ten (10) years prior to the date of the
application.

g.	Each medical cooperative operator permit shall expire one (1) year from the date of issuance and may be renewed only
by filing with the Chief of Police a written request for renewal, accompanied by the application fee and a copy of the
license to be renewed. The request for renewal shall be made at least thirty (30) days before the expiration date of the
license. When made less than thirty (30) days before the expiration date, the expiration of the license will not be stayed.
Applications for renewal shall be acted on as provided herein for applications for licenses.

h.	Should the Chief of Police not act within the time period provided under this section, the city finance director shall then
grant the application no less than five (days) following the expiration of time required section 9-491(e)i.

Sec. 9-492. Employment of Operators without operator licenses unlawful.

(a)	It shall be unlawful for any medical cooperative to not have at least one licensed operator on premises during the hours of
operation.

(b)	It shall be unlawful for any operator to allow any person to operate a medical cooperative who is not in possession of a valid
operator license.

Sec. 9-493. Suspension or revocation of medical cooperative licenses and medical cooperative operator permits.

A medical cooperative license or medical cooperative operator permit may be suspended or revoked in accordance with the procedures and
standards of this section.

(a) On determining that grounds for license revocation exist, the Chief of Police shall furnish written notice of the proposed
suspension or revocation to the licensee. Such notice shall set forth the time and place of a hearing, and the ground or grounds
upon which the hearing is based, the pertinent Code sections, and a brief statement of the factual matters in support thereof.
The notice shall be mailed; postage prepaid, addressed to the last known address of the licensee, or shall be delivered to the
licensee personally, at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing date. Hearings shall be conducted in accordance with procedures
established by the Chief of Police, but at a minimum shall include the following:

Section

Ballot Measures-W	7

(b)	All parties involved shall have a right to offer testimonial, documentary, and tangible evidence bearing on the issues; may be
represented by counsel; and shall have the right to confront and cross-examine witnesses. Any relevant evidence may be
admitted that is the sort of evidence upon which reasonable persons are accustomed to rely in the conduct of serious affairs.
Any hearing under this section may be continued for a reasonable time for the convenience of a party or a witness. The Chief of
Police's decision may be appealed in accordance with section 2-300 et seq. of the Costa Mesa Municipal Code.

(c)	A licensee may be subject to suspension or revocation of his/her license, or be subject to other appropriate disciplinary action,
for any of the following causes arising from the acts or omissions of the licensee, or an employee, agent, partner, director,
stockholder, or manager of a medical cooperative:

1.	The licensee has knowingly made any false, misleading or fraudulent statement of material facts in the application for a
license, or in any report or record required to be filed with the City.

2.	The licensee, employee, agent, partner, director, stockholder, or manager of a medical cooperative has knowingly
allowed or permitted, and has failed to make a reasonable effort to prevent the occurrence of any of the following on
the premises of the medical cooperative, or in the case of a medical cooperative operator, the licensee has engaged in
one (1) of the activities described below while on the premises of a medical cooperative:

i.	Any act of unlawful distribution of marijuana;

ii.	Any conduct prohibited by this chapter.

iii.	Failure to abide by any disciplinary action previously imposed by an appropriate city official.

(d)	After holding the hearing in accordance with the provisions of this section, if the Chief of Police finds and determines that there
are grounds for disciplinary action, based upon the severity of the violation, the Chief of Police shall impose one (1) of the
following:

1.	A warning;

2.	Suspension of the license for a specified period not to exceed six (6) months; or

3.	Revocation of the license.

i. Revocation of the license shall issue only after two prior determinations of violation.

Sec. 9-494. Appeal of denial, suspension or revocation.

After denial of an application for a medical cooperative license or a medical cooperative operator permit, or after denial of a renewal of a license,
or suspension or revocation of a license, the applicant or person to whom the license was granted may seek review of such administrative
action by the city council in accordance with the provisions of section 2-300 et seq. of the City of Costa Mesa Municipal Code. Any proceeding
to appeal such decision to the city council shall be filed within seven (7) days of such decision. If the denial, suspension or revocation is affirmed
on review, the applicant, licensee may seek prompt judicial review of such administrative action pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure
section 1094.5. The city shall make all reasonable efforts to expedite judicial review, if sought by the licensee.

Sec. 9-495. Medical cooperative operational requirements.

The following development and performance standards shall be satisfied by a medical cooperative and included in any approved medical
cooperative license:

(a)	No medical cooperative shall be operated in any manner that permits the observation of any marijuana from outside the
location.

(b)	Parking lot lighting shall be provided to illuminate all off-street parking areas serving such use for the purpose of increasing
the personal safety of patrons and employees and reducing the incidents of vandalism and theft. The lighting shall provide a
level of illumination not less than one (1) foot-candle, measured at the surface of the pavement, at all areas or the parking
lot. The lighting shall be shown on the required plot plans and shall be reviewed and approved by the development services
department.

(c)	A medical cooperative shall be open or operating for business only between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. on any
particular day.

(d)	No person under the age of eighteen (18) years shall be permitted within the premises at any time.

(e)	The medical cooperative shall possess a valid and current State Board of Equalization seller's permit;

(f)	The medical cooperative shall not be located within:

1.	1000 foot radius of a "school" as defined under Health and Safety Code 11362.768 (h);

2.	600 foot radius of a public park, public library or licensed child care facility;

3.	1000 foot radius of another registered medical cooperative;

(g)	Medical cooperative shall not allow alcohol to be purchased or consumed at the premises or in any area of the location used for
parking any vehicle;

(h)	Medical cooperative shall only be located in a commercial zoned property or industrial zoned property as allowed pursuant to
section 13-30 of Chapter IV, Title 13.

(i)	Medical Marijuana Business shall not be located on property lot abutting or across the street from a lot which is zoned for
residential use. The above notwithstanding, this subsection shall not prohibit a medical cooperative from locating across a
street from any land zoned residential if the medical cooperative and residential zone is separated by a public thoroughfare with
a minimum roadway width of 80 feet.

Sec. 9-496. Violations/penalties.

With the exception of any violation of this chapter, any person, whether as principal, employee, agent, partner, director, officer, stockholder,
or trustee or otherwise, violating or causing the violation of any of the provisions of the chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and any
conviction thereof shall be punishable by a fine of not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or by imprisonment for not more than six
(6) months, or by both such fine and Imprisonment. Notwithstanding any violation of the nudity limitation under this chapter, any violation of
the provisions of this chapter shall constitute a separate offense for each and every day during which such violation is committed or continued.

Ballot Measures-W

Section

7

Sec. 9-496.1. Public nuisance.

In addition to the penalties set forth above, any medical cooperative which is operating in violation of this chapter or any provision thereof is
hereby declared to constitute a public nuisance and, as such, may be abated or enjoined from further operation. All costs to abate such public
nuisance, including attorneys' fees and court costs, shall be paid by the licensee of the medical cooperative pursuant to section 13-17.

Sec. 9-497 Statewide Regulation.

This ordinance, and the provisions herein, shall be read consistent with any statewide regulation of medical marijuana that is promulgated by
the legislature or by voter approval in the future. In the event Statewide Regulation is passed pursuant to the decriminalization or legalization of
marijuana for recreational use, this ordinance shall govern the conduct of those business allowed to distribute marijuana under such provisions.

Section 4. Amendment and Repeal.

The provisions of the Costa Mesa Municipal Code added by, amended by, or contained in this initiative measure may be amended to further its
purposes by ordinance passed by a majority vote of the Council and approved by the Mayor. The provisions of the Costa Mesa Municipal Code
added by, amended by, or contained in this initiative measure shall not be repealed, except by an ordinance adopted either by petition or by the
Council at its own Instance and adopted by a vote of the electors.

Section 5. Severability.

If any section, subsection, subdivision, sentence, clause, phrase, word, or portion of this Ordinance is, for any reason, held to be invalid or
unconstitutional by the decision of any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of
this Ordinance. The People of the City of Costa Mesa hereby declare that they would have adopted this Ordinance and each section, subsection,
subdivision, sentence, clause, phrase, word, or portion thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions,
sentences, clauses, phrases, words or portions thereof be declared invalid or unconstitutional.

Section 6. Effective Date.

The City Clerk shall certify as to the passage and adoption of this Ordinance. This Ordinance shall take effect ten (10) days following the date
on which the City Council of the City of Costa Mesa declares that this Ordinance was adopted by a majority of the voters voting on the measure
at the municipal election on November.

Section 7. Majority Approval; Effective Date. This ordinance shall be effective only if approved by a majority of voters at the next special or
general election and shall go into effect on more than ninety days after the election.

Section 8. Competing Measure.

Competing Measures. In the event that this measure and another measure or measures relating to the taxation and regulation of medical
marijuana shall appear on the same ballot, the provisions of the other measures shall be deemed to be in conflict with this measure. In the
event that this measure shall receive a greater number of affirmative votes, the provisions of this measure shall prevail in their entirety, and the
provisions of the other relating to the taxation and regulation of medical marijuana shall be null and void.

Section 9. Special or General election.

This initiative Measure shall be set for a special or general election at the earliest time allowed by Law.

m	Section

Ballot Measures-W	7

Impartial Analysis
City of Costa Mesa
Measure W

Measure W, known as an Initiative ordinance entitled "Allow Operation of up to Four Licensed Medical Marijuana Businesses in the City of Costa Mesa",
would amend the Costa Mesa Municipal Code to authorize up to four medical marijuana businesses in the City. Such businesses would be allowed to
engage in cultivation, distribution or transfer of medical marijuana. Each medical marijuana businesses requires a separate license issued by the Chief
of Police which remains valid until revoked. Each operator of medical marijuana must have an individual operator's permit issued by the Chief of Police
which must be renewed annually. Certain state licensed health care facilities, hospices and residential care facilities are exempt.

Licenses must be issued if application meet certain conditions, and will be automatically be deemed granted if not granted or denied within 30 days.
Operator permits must be issued if operator permit applicant meets certain conditions, and will automatically be issued if not granted or denied within
15 days. Licenses and permits may be suspended and/or revoked for unlawful distribution of marijuana, failure to follow the provisions of the initiative,
of failure to abide by any disciplinary action imposed by an appropriate City official.

Such business are allowed as a matter of right in certain commercial (AP, Cl, C2, CIS, TC & PDC) and industrial (MG, MP & PDI) zones, but are not
permitted in residential zones. Operation requirements include: one permittee present during hours of operation (8 a.m. to 10 p.m.); no operations
abutting residential areas (with exceptions); no operations 1,000 feet from any school, 600 feet from public park, library or licensed child care facility or
1,000 feet from another medical marijuana business; no observable marijuana from outside location; parking lot lighting; and no minors; no purchasing
or consumption of alcohol during hours of operation. Violations of the ordinance are punishable as misdemeanors, and may be abated as a public
nuisance.

If certain conditions are met, first four applications for a license shall be granted pursuant to "priority registration" status. If less than four applicants
qualify for a priority registration, City may continue to issue license until four have been issued. City Council may increase number of licenses available
to more than four, but cannot decrease number below four. To further the purposes of the initiative, City Council may amend the initiative provisions.
Repeal of any initiative provisions must be approved by a majority of voters at another city wide election.

Businesses licensed are subject to 6% sales tax; however under current law, a sales tax increase in this amount may cause the State Board of Equalization
to terminate its contract to collect the City's sales tax.

If competing medical marijuana measures appear on the same ballot, then in the event multiple measures pass, and this Measure receives the most
affirmative votes, then the competing measure(s) shall be null and void.

This Measure was placed on the ballot by a petition signed by the requisite number of voters.

Ballot Measures-W

Argument Against Measure W

In November, the residents of Costa Mesa will be asked to vote on three
measures that would regulate the sale and manufacturing of medical
marijuana in the city.

While we originally were proponents of Measure V, which would allow up
to eight dispensaries in the city and impose a 6 percent sales tax, we are
now supporting the city's Measure X. We are urging voters to vote no on
our Measure V and no on Measure W, which would allow for as many as
four dispensaries in Costa Mesa.

We support the city's Measure X, which we believe will provide dignified
and safe access to medical marijuana to individuals seeking such
medication. As it's written, the city's initiative will be more in line with
state law and we agree with the city's Measure X that medical marijuana
operations would be best suited among the industrial and commercial
areas of the city.

Please join us in voting no on Measures V and W and yes on the city's
Measure X.

s/ Robert Taft
Proponent of Measure V

s/ Randall T. Longwith
Drafter of Measure V

s/ Jim Righeimer

Mayor Pro Tern, City of Costa Mesa

No argument in favor of this measure was submitted.

Section

7