Fillmore, California, Marijuana
Cultivation Tax, Measure H
(November 2016)

| Text of measure

Ballot question

The following question appeared on the ballot:111

// Marijuana Cultivation Tax. Shall the ordinance approving a permanent tax of
not to exceed $30.00 per square foot for the first 3,000 square feet of space,
and not to exceed $15.00 per square foot for the remaining space, used for
the cultivation of marijuana, and providing for increases of the greater of CPI
or $1.00 and $0.35, respectively, every five years, and that is expected to
raise approximately $140,000 annually, be adopted?121

Impartial analysis

The following impartial analysis of the measure was prepared by the office of the
Fillmore City Attorney:

n Ballot Measure H was placed on the ballot by the City Council of the City of
Fillmore.

A “Yes” vote on Measure H will approve a tax of up to $30 per square foot for
the first 3,000 square feet and $15 per square foot for the remaining square
feet of space utilized as marijuana cultivation area. The tax would apply to the
cultivation of marijuana for medical purposes, as well as the cultivation of
marijuana for recreational use.

The rate of the tax could be increased every five years beginning on July 1,
2022 based on the Consumer Price Index, or by $1 per square foot for the
first 3,000 square feet of cultivation space and $0.35 per square foot of the
remaining cultivation space, whichever amount is greater.

The tax would be remitted to the City quarterly. The failure to pay the tax as
required will result in penalties. The City Council would have the power to
amend or repeal the provisions of the tax in any manner that does not result

in an increase in the amount of the tax or broaden the scope of the tax. This
includes imposing the tax at a rate lower than the authorized maximum rate,
and establishing exemptions, incentives, or other reductions. The City
Manager would be authorized to promulgate rules, regulations, and
procedures to implement and administer the tax.

Measure H provides that any violation of the tax, or a violation of the rules,
regulations, or procedures promulgated by the City Manager to administer the
tax would be a misdemeanor. Such violations would also public nuisances,
and may be abated as such. Knowingly or intentionally misrepresenting
material facts regarding the amount of tax owed would be a misdemeanor.

The cultivation of marijuana in the City is currently prohibited by the Fillmore
Municipal Code. The tax would not authorize the conduct or continuance of
any illegal or unpermitted business or activity0

Fillmore City Attorney01

Measure H - City of Fillmore

Impartial Analysis by City Attorney

Ballot Measure H was placed on the ballot by the City Council of the City of Fillmore.

A “Yes” vote on Measure H will approve a tax of up to $30 per square foot for the first 3,000 square feet and $15 per square foot for the
remaining square feet of space utilized as marijuana cultivation area. The tax would apply to the cultivation of marijuana for medical purposes, as
well as the cultivation of marijuana for recreational use.

The rate of the tax could be increased every five years beginning on July 1,2022 based on the Consumer Price Index, or by $1 per
square foot for the first 3,000 square feet of cultivation space and $0.35 per square foot of the remaining cultivation space, whichever amount is
greater.

The tax would be remitted to the City quarterly. The failure to pay the tax as required will result in penalties. The City Council would have
the power to amend or repeal the provisions of the tax in any manner that does not result in an increase in the amount of the tax or broaden the
scope of the tax. This includes imposing the tax at a rate lower than the authorized maximum rate, and establishing exemptions, incentives, or
other reductions. The City Manager would be authorized to promulgate rules, regulations, and procedures to implement and administer the tax.

Measure H provides that any violation of the tax, or a violation of the rules, regulations, or procedures promulgated by the City Manager
to administer the tax would be a misdemeanor. Such violations would also public nuisances, and may be abated as such. Knowingly or
intentionally misrepresenting material facts regarding the amount of tax owed would be a misdemeanor.

The cultivation of marijuana in the City is currently prohibited by the Fillmore Municipal Code. The tax would not authorize the conduct or
continuance of any illegal or unpermitted business or activity.

Tiffany J. Israel, City Attorney
City of Fillmore

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure H. If you desire a copy of the ordinance pertaining to Measure H, please call the City
Clerk's office at 805-524-1500 ext. 211 and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you.

Argument in Favor of Measure H

A “Yes” vote on Measure H approves an annual tax of up to $30 per square foot for the first 3,000 square feet of space dedicated to the
commercial cultivation of marijuana, and up to $15 per square foot of the remaining space dedicated to the cultivation of marijuana.

The adoption of the tax does not make the sale of marijuana, for medical or recreational purposes, legal in Fillmore, but allows the City to tax the
sale of marijuana if it does become legal in the City. The tax is a general tax and the proceeds will be used to help fund basic City services such as
public safety; public parks and building maintenance; youth, adult, and senior programs; and public infrastructure improvements.

The tax will not be charged directly to any customers purchasing or receiving marijuana. Payment of the tax shall be made to the City by the
person or entity cultivating the marijuana.

There is at least one statewide proposition on the ballot that would legalize the cultivation of marijuana for recreational use in California if it passes.
Measure H will help Fillmore be prepared for this possibility by allowing the City to tax the cultivation of marijuana from the first day that the
cultivation of marijuana for recreational use is legal. If the cultivation of marijuana for recreational use is approved this November and this tax is not
approved, the City would not have another opportunity to enact a cultivation tax until the November 2018 election. As a result, the City would miss
out on two years of tax revenue.

VOTE “YES” ON MEASURE H to help fund basic City services and allow the City to tax the cultivation of marijuana from the first day it is legal, if
and when it becomes legal, in Fillmore.

s/Diane McCall	s/Carrie Broggie	s/Manuel Minjares	s/Douglas Tucker	s/Rick Neal

Mayor	Mayor Pro Tern	Council Member	Council Member	Council Member

No Argument Against This Measure Was Submitted