Ballot Measures-Z

Section

7

City of Costa Mesa, Measure for Sensible Community
2 Development and Development-Funded Open Space and
Recreation

Shall the Costa Mesa Measure for Sensible Community Development and Development-Funded Open Space and
Recreation, which ratifies the City's existing land use regulations, ensures that approximately 25% of the State
Developmental Hospital on Harbor Boulevard would be zoned as passive or recreational open space, and establishes a
fee paid for by developers for the purpose of funding new active recreation, open space, and public park facilities within
the City, be adopted?

What your vote means	
YES	NO
A "Yes" vote is a vote to approve the Measure for Sensible Community Development and Development- Funded Open Space and Recreation, which ratifies and re-adopts the City's existing zoning and land use regulations (including without limitation, its General Plan, Specific Plans, and Title 13 of the City's Zoning Code) and amends the City's Municipal Code to establish a development impact fee, which would be applicable to all new development in the City that is located both north of the 405 and west of Fairview Drive.	A "No" vote is a vote not to approve the Measure for Sensible Community Development and Development- Funded Open Space and Recreation.

For and against

FOR	AGAINST
James Righeimer	Sandra Genis
Mayor Pro Tern, City of Costa Mesa	Land Planner
Gordon Bowley President, Costa Mesa United	Costa Mesa City Council Member Jay Humphrey
Lee Ramos  Senior Center Commissioner	Former Costa Mesa Council Member and Vice Mayor Mary Spadoni
Brett Eckles  Chairman, Costa Mesa Parks and Recreation Commission	Retired Investigator, Orange County District Attorney Wendy Leece
Bruce Skibby	Former Costa Mesa City Council Member  Former Trustee, Newport-Mesa Unified School District
President, AYSO Region 97	Richard Huffman Treasurer, Costa Mesa First

Section

7

Full Text of Measure Z
City of Costa Mesa

ORDINANCE NO. 2016 - 07

Ballot Measures-Z

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF COSTA MESA CALIFORNIA, KNOWN AS THE COSTA
MESA MEASURE FOR SENSIBLE COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AND DEVELOPMENT-
FUNDED OPEN SPACE AND RECREATION

WHEREAS, an initiative known as the Initiative to Require Voter Approval of Certain Development Projects (the "Initiative") has been submitted to the
voters pursuant to Elections Code Section 9215; and

WHEREAS, the City Council has determined that adoption of the Initiative is not in the best interests of the community and desires to submit a directly
competing measure to the voters for consideration pursuant to Elections Code Section 9222; and

WHEREAS, the City Council has submitted the following measure (the "Measure") to the voters for said purpose; and

WHEREAS, the Measure, if adopted, would ratify the City's existing General, Specific, and Overlay Plans, as well as the City's Zoning Code; and

WHEREAS, the City is approximately 98% built out, and hence few opportunities exist for the creation of new athletic fields, and to provide new
recreational opportunities for the community; and

WHEREAS, Notwithstanding the impact of the development of the City on the ability to create new recreational opportunities, the City Council has
adopted a policy by which it has declared that it is dedicated to creating partnerships with local youth sports organizations to ensure there is ample
opportunity to participate in athletics at various ability levels, with a primary goal of providing athletic opportunities and ensuring athletic fields remain
safe and of a high quality; and

WHEREAS, despite the impact of the development of the City on the ability to create new recreational opportunities, and in particular the opportunity
to create new athletic fields, there exists a critical need for such facilities as demonstrated, for instance, by facts such as:

(i)	in 2014 the City permitted youth sports organizations to use 51,016 hours (which is equivalent to six years) of field time on all the City's
existing athletic fields,

(ii)	there are 13 organized sports groups who compete for the ability to use Costa Mesa athletic fields,

(iii)	approximately 5,000 adults and children use Costa Mesa's athletic fields each year; and

(iv)	the State has contemplated the repeal of daylight savings time, and should that occur, an additional 4000 hours of field time will be lost,
causing further concerns that there will not be enough fields available for all of the individuals and sports who desire to use them;

(v)	in order to accommodate the estimated 2016 demand for athletic field usage, the city is in need of new multi-purpose athletic fields; and

WHEREAS, the pending closure of the Fairview Developmental Center presents the community with a unique opportunity to create additional outdoor
recreational experiences, including but not limited to youth sports fields, within the City of Costa Mesa; and

WHEREAS, this Measure, if passed, would ratify the existing General, Specific, and Overlay Plans, as well as the City's Zoning Code to ensure that if the
State proceeds with the closure of Fairview Developmental Center, approximately 25.6 of the 102.6 total acres will be required to be zoned as either
passive or recreational open space, and any change to this requirement would require a vote of the people;

WHEREAS, the area located both north of the 405 Freeway and West of Fairview Drive, presents another unique opportunity for the creation of athletic
fields and other recreational opportunities, in that it contains large parcels that the City anticipates will be redeveloped in the near future; however,
current plans for the redevelopment of such sites do not appear to contemplate uses for recreational activities; and

WHEREAS, this Measure, if passed, would facilitate development of new recreational opportunities, including the development of sports fields, by
imposing a new development impact fee (the "Open Space and Public Park Impact Fee") on all new development located both north of the 405 and
west of Fairview Drive, to offset impacts created by such development upon recreational opportunities, including the elimination of the ability to
construct athletic fields and otherwise implement recreational opportunities in such areas; and

WHEREAS, in order to ensure oversight, transparency, and input from all affected stakeholders, this Measure, if passed would also form a new citizen
committee called the Open Space & Recreation Advisory Committee, which would be subject to the Brown Act and the Fair Political Practices Act, and
which would be responsible for providing guidance regarding expenditures of the new Open Space and Public Park Impact Fee, and the recreational
needs of the community to the City Council.

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF COSTA MESA DO HEREBY ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1: Name.

This ballot measure shall be known and may be cited as the "Costa Mesa Measure for Sensible Community Development and Development-Funded
Open Space and Recreation" and shall be referred to herein as "the Measure."

SECTION 2: Purpose.

The purpose of this Measure is to directly compete with the Initiative, which proposes a number of amendments to the Municipal Code. The Measure,
if adopted, will:

(a)	ratify the City's General Plan, approved by the City Council on June 21,2016, which specifically designates not less than 25%, or approximately

Section

Ballot Measures-Z	7

25.6 of the 102.6 total acres of the Fairview Developmental Center as either passive or recreational open space, in anticipation of the Center's future
closure, and that any change to this requirement shall require a vote of the people;

(b)	ratify the City's Zoning Code, as well as all of the City's Specific Plans and Overlay Plans as those documents exist on the effective date of
this Ordinance, including but not limited to: the 2015-2035 General Plan, adopted on June 21, 2016; the Baker Street and Paularino Avenue Specific
Plan (SP-78-02); the Placentia/Hamilton/Pomona/19th Specific Plan (SP-79-01); the Bristol Street Specific Plan (SP-82-01); the East 17th Street
Specific Plan (SP-84-01); the Harbor/Bernard/Parsons/Ford Specific Plan (SP-84-02); the North Costa Mesa Specific Plan (SP-94-01); the Avocado
Street Specific Plan (SP 86-01); the Newport Boulevard Specific Plan (SP-96-01); the Costa Mesa Theater & Arts District Plan (SP-03-01); the SoBECA
Urban Plan (SP-05-06); the 19 West Urban Plan (SP-05-07); the Mesa West Bluffs Urban Plan (SP-05-08); the Mesa West Residential Ownership Urban
Plan (SP-05-09); and Title 13 of the Costa Mesa Municipal Code (Planning, Zoning and Development).

(c)	Amend the City's Municipal Code to add a development impact fee known as the Open Space and Public Park Impact Fee in an amount
not to exceed $1.50/square foot, which shall be collected on all new development located both north of the 405 freeway and west of Fairview Drive,
to be used by the City for the purpose of increasing active recreation, open space and public park facilities within the City, upon the advice and
recommendation of a newly created citizen committee called the Open Space & Recreation Advisory Committee.

This Measure is intended to comprehensively regulate the same subject as the Initiative - the General Plan, Specific Plan(s), Overlay Plan(s) and
applicable provisions of the Municipal Code. If a majority of voters approve both the Initiative and the Costa Mesa Measure for Sensible Community
Development and Development-Funded Open Space and Recreation, the ballot measure with the higher percentage of the vote will control. Therefore,
if both measures are approved and the Costa Mesa Measure for Sensible Community Development and Development-Funded Open Space and
Recreation receives a higher percentage of the vote than the Initiative, none of the changes or additions proposed by the Initiative will be implemented.

SECTION 3. Ratification of General Plan

By this Measure, the People of the City of Costa Mesa hereby ratify the existing General Plan, as approved by the City Council on June 21, 2016. The
existing text of the General Plan is attached hereto as Exhibit A and incorporated herein by reference.

The City's General Plan, as approved by the City Council on June 21, 2016 specifically designates not less than 25% or approximately 25.6 of 102 total
acres at Fairview Developmental Center shall be zoned as either passive or recreational open space; any change to this requirement shall require a
vote of the people.

SECTION 4. Ratification of Zoning Code. Specific Plan(s). and Overlay Plan(s)

By this Measure, the People of the City of Costa Mesa hereby ratify the City's existing zoning and related land use provisions. This would include the
City Council's recently approved 2015-2035 General Plan, adopted on June 21, 2016. It would also include the following (including any subsequent
amendments): the Baker Street and Paularino Avenue Specific Plan (SP-78-02); the Placentia/Hamilton/Pomona/19th Specific Plan (SP-79-01); the
Bristol Street Specific Plan (SP-82-01); the East 17th Street Specific Plan (SP-84-01); the Harbor/Bernard/Parsons/Ford Specific Plan (SP-84-02); the
North Costa Mesa Specific Plan (SP-94-01); the Avocado Street Specific Plan (SP 86-01); the Newport Boulevard Specific Plan (SP-96-01); the Costa
Mesa Theater & Arts District Plan (SP-03-01); the SoBECA Urban Plan (SP-05-06); the 19 West Urban Plan (SP-05-07); the Mesa West Bluffs Urban
Plan (SP-05-08); the Mesa West Residential Ownership Urban Plan (SP-05-09); and Title 13 of the Costa Mesa Municipal Code (Planning, Zoning and
Development.) The existing text of the Zoning Code, Specific Plan(s) and Overlay Plan(s) are attached hereto as Exhibit B and incorporated herein by
reference.

SECTION 5. Establishment of Open Space and Public Park Impact Fee and Open Space & Recreation Advisory Committee.

By this Measure, the People of the City of Costa Mesa hereby add Article 4, to Chapter XII of Title 13 to the City's Municipal Code for the purpose of
establishing a new open space and public park impact fee (the "Open Space and Public Park Impact Fee" or "Fee"). The Fee shall be applicable to
all new development located both north of the 405 freeway and west of Fairview Drive. The Open Space and Public Park Impact Fee shall be due
upon issuance of a certificate of occupancy. The Open Space and Public Park Impact Fee is established to offset the impact of development upon
recreational opportunities and shall be used by the City for the purpose of increasing active recreation, open space and public park facilities within the
City, which uses may include, but would not be limited to, the maintenance and development of Fairview Developmental Center upon its anticipated
closure.

The amount of the Open Space and Public Park Impact Fee shall be the maximum amount permissible pursuant to the Mitigation Fee Act, and shall be
established pursuant thereto; provided, however, in no event shall the Fee exceed $1.50/square foot of new development.

A citizen committee is hereby created, and shall be known as the open space & recreation advisory committee (the "Open Space & Recreation Advisory
Committee" or "Committee"), whose role shall be to advise the City Council on expenditures of the Open Space and Public Park Impact Fee. The Open
Space and Public Park Impact Fee shall be only spent after receiving the advice and recommendation of the Committee.

The Open Space & Recreation Advisory Committee shall consist of seven (7) members of the public who are appointed by the City Council. The seven
(7) members shall consist of: the Mayor, one (1) City Councilmember chosen by a majority of the City Council, one (1) representative of a Costa Mesa
youth football organization chosen by a majority of the City Council, one (1) representative of a Costa Mesa youth baseball organization chosen by
a majority of the City Council, one (1) representative of a Costa Mesa youth soccer organization chosen by a majority of the City Council, one (1)
representative of the Newport Mesa Unified School District ("NMUSD") chosen by a majority vote of the NMUSD trustees, and one (1) member from a
properly formed and actively operating California corporation whose primary focus is issues of environmental concern chosen by a majority of the City
Council. The members shall be appointed at a time and place pursuant to Council policy. The Committee shall comply with the Brown Act and the Fair
Political Practices Act, including but not limited to all disclosures required therein. City Staff shall provide the necessary support for the Committee's
meetings and other official business. The City Council shall budget an appropriate amount of funds collected from the Open Space & Public Park
Impact Fee for the Committee's activities, recognizing that interfund transfers may be necessary at the beginning of the Committee's formation before
sufficient Open Space and Public Park Impact Fees have been collected. The Open Space & Recreation Advisory Committee shall sunset, and unless
renewed by the City Council cease to exist, upon making its final recommendations to the City Council for active and passive recreational uses at

Ballot Measures-Z

Fairview Developmental Center, or 5 years after the effective date of this Measure, whichever shall first occur.

Section

7

SECTION 6. Rejection of Initiative to Require Voter Approval of Certain Development Projects

By this measure, the People of the City of Costa Mesa hereby reject each and every change and addition to the Municipal Code proposed by the
Initiative.

SECTION 7. Future Changes

Except as otherwise provided herein, any future changes or amendments to this ordinance, if approved, including any future changes or amendments
to the General Plan, Specific Plan(s), Overlay Plan(s), or Municipal Code provisions affected by the Measure, may occur in the manner set forth in State
law and the City's Municipal Code, and shall not require a vote of the people.

SECTION 8. Severability

If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase of this ordinance is for any reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional by the decision of any
court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this ordinance. The City Council hereby declares
that it would have adopted this ordinance, and each and every section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase not declared invalid or unconstitutional,
without regard to whether any portion of the ordinance would be subsequently declared invalid or unconstitutional.

SECTION 9. Effective Date

This ordinance shall take effect according to law ten days after certification of the election at which it is adopted.

Exhibit A to ORDINANCE NO. 2016-07

[Full Text of General Plan, As Adopted on June 21, 2016]

A full copy of the ordinance including attachments, is available for review on-line and in the City Clerk's office.
Exhibit B to ORDINANCE NO. 2016-07

[Full Text of Zoning Code, Specific Plan(s) and Overlay Plan(s)]

A full copy of the ordinance including attachments, is available for review on-line and in the City Clerk's office.

Impartial Analysis
City of Costa Mesa
Measure Z

The purpose of this measure (the "Measure") is to directly compete with the initiative known as "The Initiative To Require Voter Approval of Certain
Development Projects" (the "Initiative").

If adopted, the Measure would amend the Municipal Code to add a development impact fee known as the Open Space and Public Park Impact Fee, which
would be applicable to all new development located both north of the 405 freeway and west of Fairview Drive. The Fee is intended to offset the impacts
that new development has upon recreational opportunities. It is to be used for the purpose of increasing active recreation, open space and public
park facilities within the City. While not specifically tied to the development of Fairview Developmental Center, upon its anticipated closure, the Fee
would be available to fund open space and recreational activities at that site. The Measure sets the Fee at the maximum amount permissible pursuant
to the Mitigation Fee Act, and requires compliance with the requirements of that Act; but caps the Fee at $1.50/square foot of new development. The
Measure would also result in the creation of an Open Space & Recreation Advisory Committee with a limited duration to advise the City Council on
expenditures of the new Open Space and Public Park Impact Fee.

The Measure would by ordinance ratify and adopt the City's General Plan adopted on June 21, 2016; the Baker Street and Paularino Avenue Specific
Plan (SP-78-02), the Placentia/Flamilton/Pomona/19th Specific Plan (SP-79-01), the Bristol Street Specific Plan (SP-82-01), the East 17th Street
Specific Plan (SP-84-01), the Flarbor/Bernard/Parsons/Ford Specific Plan (SP-84-02), the North Costa Mesa Specific Plan (SP-94-01), the Avocado
Street Specific Plan (SP 86-01), the Newport Boulevard Specific Plan (SP-96-01), the Costa Mesa Theater & Arts District Plan (SP-0301), the SoBECA
Urban Plan (SP-05-06), the 19 West Urban Plan (SP-05-07), the Mesa West Bluffs Urban Plan (SP-05-08), the Mesa West Residential Ownership Urban
Plan (SP-05-09); and Title 13 of the Costa Mesa Municipal Code (Planning, Zoning and Development).

This Measure comprehensively regulates the same subject as the Initiative. It directly competes with, and specifically rejects the changes to the
Municipal Code proposed by the Initiative. If a majority of voters approve both the Initiative and the Measure, the one with the higher percentage of
the vote will control. If both measures are approved and the Measure receives a higher percentage of the vote than the Initiative, none of the changes
or additions proposed by the Initiative will be implemented.

Any future changes or amendments to the ordinance proposed by the Measure, including changes or amendments to the General Plan, Special Plan(s),
Overlay Plan(s), or Municipal Code provisions affected by it, may occur in the manner set forth by law, and shall not require a vote of the people;
excepting that any change to the General Plan provisions that call for approximately 25 acres of the Fairview Development Center site to be zoned as
either passive or recreational open space upon its closure would require a vote of the people.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure Z. If you desire a copy of the measure, please call the elections official's office at
714-754-5225 and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you.

Ballot Measures-Z

Section

7

Argument in Favor of Measure Z

Almost 5,000 adults and children use Costa Mesa's athletic fields.

Costa Mesa is sports-field poor. We don't have enough fields for soccer,
baseball, or youth football.

The Parks Commission estimates we need new multi-purpose fields to
meet 2016's demand.

MAKES DEVELOPERS PAY FOR NEW FIELDS

Measure Z helps fix our shortage of sports fields, and the developers pay
for it.

Early estimates show over $1 million in developer fees could be used for
the fields.

Measure Z sets aside 25% of the State Developmental Hospital upon its
closure for active and passive recreational uses.

3rd LARGEST PARK IN CITY

At almost 26 acres. Yes on Measure Z will bring us the third largest park
in the city.

Half the size of Tewinkle Park and twice the size of Lions Park, this park
will be the last major park the city will ever build.

SOLVES THE FIELD SHORTAGE PROBLEM

Costa Mesa is built out - with only 2% of the city's land left.

Fairview's 103 acres is perfectly located off Harbor Blvd. for our youth and
adult recreation.

•	13 organized sports groups now use Costa Mesa athletic fields.

•	In 2014 the city permitted 51,016 hours of time on all fields we
permit in the city. That's equivalent to 6 years of time.

CITIZENS COMMISSION - NOT POLITICIANS - MAKE THE PLANS

Measure Z creates a 7 member Citizens Committee to plan the State
Hospital's recreational projects.

Representatives from each member of the youth sports organizations,
the school board, environmentalists, and the city will guide the Fairview
planning process.

MEASURE Z IS A COMPROMISE PLAN

Youth sports, adult sports, and public health experts agree that
recreational fields help knit the community together.

The State Developmental Hospital is our best chance to add active fields
and park space to Costa Mesa.

Vote Yes on Z.

s/ James Righeimer

Mayor Pro Tern, City of Costa Mesa

s/ Gordon Bowley
President, Costa Mesa United

Rebuttal to Argument in Favor of Measure Z

DON'T BE FOOLED!

Measure Z's purpose is to stop the CITIZENS' Initiative to Require Voter
Approval of Certain Development Projects, also on this ballot. The
CITIZENS' initiative gives you the right to vote on large projects affecting
your quality of life in all 15.8 square miles of Costa Mesa, not just a
fraction of Fairview Developmental Center.

THIS IS A PRO DEVELOPER INITIATIVE!

Politicians and their cronies are hoping you'll give up the right to vote on
Costa Mesa's future for the unreliable prospect of added park funding.

DECEPTIVE LANGUAGE!

Proponents of Measure Z tell you how much COULD BE USED for fields-
not how much WOULD BE RAISED. It may be just a small fraction of the
$1 million they say "could be used." Future funds would trickle in over
years, maybe decades, creating little real impact on park improvements.

COSTA MESANS: DON'T COMPROMISE!

Less than half the people using Costa Mesa's athletic fields are Costa
Mesa residents. Some groups have less than ten percent Costa Mesa
residents. Shouldn't some of these outsiders have to pay their fair share
for using our Costa Mesa fields? That just might generate more funds than
Measure Z!

ANOTHER CRONY COMMITTEE!

Measure Z could end up costing Costa Mesa taxpayers. Questionable
"interfund transfers" can be used to finance activities of the crony
committee while waiting for Measure Z funds to come in.

Read the fine print.

Why aren't proponents of this deceptive initiative clearly disclosing its
true purpose? Who benefits most?

Vote NO on Measure Z.

See CostaMesalst.com

s/ Sandra Genis
Land Planner

Costa Mesa City Council Member
s/ Robin Leffler

President, Costa Mesa Residents for Responsible Government

s/ Teresa Callo Drain
Veterans' Advocate

s/ Tom Egan

Former School Board Member, Newport-Mesa Unified School District

s/ Alex Reich
Software Engineer

s/ Lee Ramos

Senior Center Commissioner

s/ Brett Eckles

Chairman, Costa Mesa Parks and Recreation Commission

s/ Bruce Skibby
President, AYSO Region 97

Ballot Measures-Z

Argument Against Measure Z

Vote No on Measure Z.

There is nothing "sensible" about Measure Z .

Measure Z was cooked up by politicians trying to trick you into throwing
away your right to vote on Costa Mesa's future, a right you'd ensure under
the citizens' Initiative to Require Voter Approval of Certain Development
Projects, also on this ballot.

Measure Z puts your stamp of approval on pro-developer politicians'
plans to:

•	Increase residential densities to build 4-5 story apartment
buildings with massive parking garages

•	Increase Costa Mesa's population by 19%

•	Increase nonresidential development by 18%

•	Reduce setbacks

•	Reduce open space

•	Increase traffic and pollution

•	Degrade our quality of life

Once approved by the voters, it could be more difficult to roll back any of
these changes—even if their schemes were challenged in court or found
to be illegal.

Don't be fooled by the questionable promise of funding for parks. The
new park fee applies only to new construction in a small part of town
which is mostly developed.

Measure Z puts an upper limit on the fee, but no lower limit. The pro-
developer initiative not only directs the City Council to set the fee, it
specifically enables the City Council to change or eliminate the fee at any
time-without voter input.

Measure Z establishes a crony committee to oversee whatever funds
may be collected and lets the committee use those funds for "committee
activities". Who knows if anything will be left after paying for their
"activities"?

The citizens' Initiative to Require Voter Approval of Certain Development
Projects gives you the right vote on the amount of open space at the
Fairview Development Center, so Measure Z is unnecessary.

Don't be fooled by this deceptive pro-developer initiative!

Vote No on Measure Z!

Learn more at costamesalst.com.

s/ Sandra Genis
Land Planner

Costa Mesa City Council Member

Section

7

Rebuttal to Argument Against Measure Z

The opponents of Measure Z are the same people that oppose anything
in town that moves, makes a profit, provides recreation, benefits families,
or enhances our quality of life.

Measure Z simply sets aside 25% of the State Developmental Hospital
on Harbor Blvd. when it closes for active and passive recreation. And it
requires developers to pay for it.

It's plain, simple, and easy to comprehend. Unless you believe in UFO's.

The Hospital is 104 acres in the middle of Costa Mesa, a perfect location
for baseball diamonds, soccer and football fields, and passive walking
trails. It will be the 3rd largest park in town - funded by developers
building near the Costa Mesa/Santa Ana city limits.

Early estimates show developers will pay over $1 million to build this park
- and a committee of citizens will determine how the money is spent.

Costa Mesa is 98% built out. Wouldn't it be nice to carve out a little open
space from one of the few remaining open parcels for our kids to play ball
and families to picnic? That's what Measure Z does, unless you believe
in UFO's.

According to the opponents, adding 25 acres of fields and trails will
somehow "reduce open space and increase traffic and pollution." That's
nuts!

The Hospital is a once in lifetime opportunity for Costa Mesa. Let's protect
for parks and open space and make the developers pay for it.

If you want the developers to pay for Costa Mesa's 3rd Largest Park vote
Yes on Measure Z.

s/ James Righeimer

Mayor Pro Tern, City of Costa Mesa

s/ Lee Ramos

Commissioner, Costa Mesa Senior Commission

s/ Gordon Bowley
President, Costa Mesa United

s/ Bruce Skibby

Regional Commissioner, AYSO Region 97
s/ Brett Eckles

Chairman, Costa Mesa Parks and Recreation Commission

s/ Jay Humphrey

Former Costa Mesa Council Member and Vice Mayor
s/ Mary Spadoni

Retired Investigator, Orange County District Attorney
s/ Wendy Leece

Former Costa Mesa City Council Member

Former Trustee, Newport-Mesa Unified School District

s/ Richard Huffman
Treasurer, Costa Mesa First