BEFORE THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS
OF THE COUNTY OF KINGS, STATE OF CALIFORNIA



fjf J|{

IN THE MATTER OF CONSOLIDATING	RESOLUTION	NO, 16-013

LOCAL ELECTION WITH

THE STATEWIDE GENERAL ELECTION/

WHEREAS, pursuant to California Elections Code sections 10400 et seq., the Board of
Supervisors (“Board”) seeks consolidation of the countywide election on the proposed Ordinance
for a public safety transactions and use tax, attached hereto as Exhibit 1, with the Statewide
General Election to be held on June 7,2016; and

WHEREAS, under Elections Code sections 10400 et seq. the Board of Supervisors has the
power and the authority to order the consolidation of local elections with the Statewide General
Election; and

WHEREAS, the Board acknowledges that the election will be held and conducted in the
manner prescribed in Elections Code section 10418.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED as follows:

1.	The above referenced election shall be conducted in accordance with all applicable
procedural requirements of the Elections Code pertaining to general elections and shall occur in
consolidation with the Statewide General Election to be held on June 7,2016,

2.	The County Elections Division shall provide the election services requested and as
authorized under the provisions of the Elections Code.

3.	The form of the question to be placed before the voters shall be as set forth in
Exhibit 2,

The foregoing resolution was adopted upon motion by Supervisor Neves, seconded by
Supervisor Fagundes, at a regular meeting held on February 23, 2016, by the following vote:

AYES:

NOES:

ABSENT:

Supervisors Neves, Fagundp	Jalle, Verboop

None

Supervisor Pedersen (/	#	,	,	,

Chairman prfme Board of Supervisors
County ortungs, State of California

WITNESS my hand and seal of said Board of Supervisors this 23rd day of February. 2016





A/\

‘kjxJ'

Deputy Clerk of said Board of Supervisors

(

pl/2015-42-1107/55597,doc/consol reso

EXHIBIT 1

ORDINANCE NO.

AN ORDINANCE OF THE COUNTY OF KINGS
IMPOSING A TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX TO BE
ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION

Section 1. TITLE. This ordinance shall be known as the Kings County Public Safety
Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance. The County of Kings, hereinafter shall be called "County.”
This ordinance shall be applicable in the incorporated and unincorporated territory of the County.

Section 2. OPERATIVE DATE. "Operative Date" means the first day of the first calendar
quarter commencing more than 110 days after the adoption of this ordinance, the date of such
adoption being as set forth below. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the tax imposed hereby shall
not be collected earlier than January 1, 2017. Neither shall the tax imposed hereby be collected if
the tax imposed by article XIII, section 36, subdivision (f) of the state’s constitution, adopted by
voters in the ballot initiative commonly known as “Proposition 30,” is extended beyond January
1, 2017, or if prior to January 1, 2017, the Legislature or the state’s electorate otherwise take
action to increase sales and use taxes in this state to remain in effect after January 1, 2017.

Section 3. PURPOSE. This ordinance is adopted to achieve the following, among other
purposes, and directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish those
purposes:

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the provisions of Part 1.6
(commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code and Section
7285.5 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 which authorizes the County to adopt this tax ordinance which
shall be operative if two-thirds (2/3) of the electors voting on the measure vote to approve the
imposition of the tax at an election called for that purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates provisions
identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California insofar as those
provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax and provides a
measure therefor that can be administered and collected by the State Board of Equalization in a
manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and requires the least possible deviation from,
the existing statutory and administrative procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization
in administering and collecting the California State Sales and Use Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be administered in a
manner that will be, to the greatest degree possible, consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting the transactions
and use taxes, and at the same time, minimize the burden of record keeping upon persons subject
to taxation under the provisions of this ordinance.

1

Section 3A. EXPENDITURE PLAN.

A.	Because the tax imposed hereby will be collected throughout the incorporated and
unincorporated area of Kings County, the revenues of the tax will be allocated between the
County and the cities of A venal, Corcoran, Hanford, and Lemoore. Such allocation shall be done
pursuant to a memorandum of understanding (“MOU”) among the County and each of the cities.

B.	A copy of the form of the MOU is attached to this Ordinance as Exhibit A, and the
expenditure plan contained therein in Paragraph 6 is incorporated herein and made a part of this
Ordinance by reference. All revenues collected pursuant to this Ordinance shall be used only as
described in the expenditure plan contained in the MOU. The expenditure plan may be amended
only as described in Paragraph 13 of the MOU.

C.	In approving this ordinance, pursuant to Revenue and Taxation Code section 7285.5,
subdivision (b) and Government Code section 55800, and to the extent allowed under the MOU,
the voters hereby authorize each of the jurisdictions receiving funds from the transactions and use
tax to issue bonds to be repaid from the revenues of the tax.

D.	Revenues received pursuant to the transactions and use taxes that are hereby imposed
shall be permanently appropriated by the County as specified in the MOU.

Section 4. CONTRACT WITH STATE. Prior to the operative date, the County shall
contract with the State Board of Equalization to perform all functions incident to the
administration and operation of this transactions and use tax ordinance; provided, that if the
County shall not have contracted with the State Board of Equalization prior to the operative date,
it shall nevertheless so contract and in such a case the operative date shall be the first day of the
first calendar quarter following the execution of such a contract.

Section 5. TRANSACTIONS TAX RATE. For the privilege of selling tangible personal
property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated and
unincorporated territory of the County at the rate of one-quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the
gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail in said
territory on and after the operative date of this ordinance.

Section 6. PLACE OF SALE. For the purposes of this ordinance, all retail sales are
consummated at the place of business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is
delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for
delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery
charges, when such charges are subject to the state sales and use tax, regardless of the place to
which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the State or
has more than one place of business, the place or places at which the retail sales are
consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by
the State Board of Equalization.

Section 7. USE TAX RATE. An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other
consumption in the County of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on and after
the operative date of this ordinance for storage, use or other consumption in said territory at the
rate of one-quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the sales price of the property. The sales price shall

2

t

include delivery charges when such charges are subject to state sales or use tax regardless of the
place to which delivery is made.

Section 8. ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW. Except as otherwise
provided in this ordinance and except insofar as they are inconsistent with the provisions of Part
1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing
with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and
made a part of this ordinance as though fully set forth herein.

Section 9. LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF STATE LAW AND COLLECTION OF
USE TAXES. In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing agency,
the name of this County shall be substituted therefor. However, the substitution shall not be
made when:

1.	The word "State" is used as a part of the title of the State Controller, State
Treasurer, Victim Compensation and Government Claims Board, State Board of Equalization,
State Treasury, or the Constitution of the State of California;

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against
this County or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by or against the State Board
of Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the administration or operation of this
Ordinance.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sections referring
to the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the result of the substitution would be
to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales, storage,
use or other consumption of tangible personal property which would not otherwise be exempt
from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other consumption remain subject to tax by the
State under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other
consumption of tangible personal property which would not be subject to tax by the state under
the said provision of that code.

4.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711, 6715,
6737, 6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code,

B.	The word "County" shall be substituted for the word "State" in the phrase
"retailer engaged in business in this State" in Section 6203 and in the definition of that phrase in
Section 6203.

Section 10. PERMIT NOT REQUIRED. If a seller's permit has been issued to a retailer
under Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional transactor's permit shall not
be required by this ordinance.

3

Section 11. EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the use tax
the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or by any city, city and
county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the
amount of any state-administered transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax the
gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum products, to
operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the County in which the sale is
made and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or
property under the authority of the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign
government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the County which is shipped to a point
outside the County, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by the retailer or his
agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at such point. For the
purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point outside the County shall be satisfied:

a. With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject to
registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle
Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and
undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the
Vehicle Code by registration to an out-of-County address and by a declaration under penalty of
perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that such address is, in fact, his or her principal place of
residence; and

b. With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of
business out-of-County and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, that the
vehicle will be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to furnish the
property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this
ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such
property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the property for an
amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, the sale or
lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or
lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional
right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this ordinance, the storage, use
or other consumption in this County of tangible personal property:

4

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a transactions
tax under any state-administered transactions and use tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of aircraft and
used or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as
common carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under a certificate of public
convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this State, the United States, or any
foreign government. This exemption is in addition to the exemptions provided in Sections 6366
and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price
pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the tangible
personal property arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such property for any
period of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by a
lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, storage, use, or
other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power over, tangible personal
property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time
for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract
or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in business in the
County shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible personal property,
unless the retailer ships or delivers the property into the County or participates within the County
in making the sale of the property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving the order,
either directly or indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer in the County or through any
representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the County under the authority
of the retailer.

7.	"A retailer engaged in business in the County" shall also include any retailer
of any of the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with
Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section
21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5
(commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to collect
use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address
in the County.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit against that tax
any transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a County imposing, or retailer
liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code
with respect to the sale to the person of the property the storage, use or other consumption of
which is subject to the use tax.

Section 12. AMENDMENTS. All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this
ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use

5

taxes and which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part of this ordinance, provided however, that no
such amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this ordinance.

Section 13. ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN. No injunction or writ of
mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit, action or proceeding in any
court against the State or the County, or against any officer of the State or the County, to prevent
or enjoin the collection under this ordinance, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.

Section 14. SEVERABILITY. If any provision of this ordinance or the application thereof
to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the ordinance and the application
of such provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

Section 15. EFFECTIVE DATE. This ordinance relates to the levying and collecting of
the County transactions and use taxes and shall take effect immediately. The election on this
ordinance shall be consolidated with the June 7, 2016 election.

Section 16. APPROPRIATIONS LIMIT. Pursuant to article 13B, section 4 of the state
constitution, in adopting this ordinance, the voters of the County hereby approve an increase in
the County’s appropriations limit by the amount of revenue generated in each year by the
transactions and use tax imposed hereby, and said change shall take effect for the maximum
length of time allowed by said section 4.

PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Board of Supervisors of the County of Kings,

State of California, on_______________________,	by	the following vote:

AYES:

NOES:

ABSENT:

Doug Verboon, Chairperson

Attest:

Catherine Venturella, Clerk of the Board

6

pl/2015-42-1107/55065. doc/ordinance

EXHIBIT A

AGREEMENT NO._________

MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING (“MOU”)

BETWEEN THE COUNTY OF KINGS AND
THE CITIES OF AVENAL, CORCORAN, HANFORD, AND LEMOORE,
REGARDING EQUITABLE DISTRIBUTION OF
PUBLIC SAFETY TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX REVENUES

THIS AGREEMENT is entered into on this________day of___________,

2016 by and between the County of Kings (“County”) and the Cities of Avenal, Corcoran,
Hanford, and Lemoore (collectively, the “Cities,” and collectively with County, the
“Parties”).

1.	Purpose

This MOU is entered into pursuant to the Joint Exercise of Powers Act, chapter 5,
division 7, title 1 of the Government Code, beginning at section 6500.

It is not the intent of the Parties in entering into this MOU to establish a separate
entity pursuant to Government Code section 6503.5, and the MOU shall not be construed
to create such an entity.

If approved by County’s Board of Supervisors (“Board”) and the electorate.

County anticipates establishing a transactions and use tax (the “Tax”) pursuant to
Revenue and Taxation Code section 7285,5, and collected at a rate of one-quarter of one
percent (0.25%). Because the tax will be collected countywide, and recognizing that the
public safety needs of all of the jurisdictions in Kings County are interrelated, County
intends to share the revenues of the Tax equitably between the Parties.

The purpose of this MOU is to provide for such equitable distribution.

2.	Recitals

WHEREAS, the Parties agree that the purposes of this MOU are as stated above in
Paragraph 1; and

WHEREAS, each of the Parties has participated in the creation of the Tax; and

WHEREAS, in consideration for such participation and for the mutual covenants
and conditions hereby imposed, each Party desires and agrees to be bound by this MOU;
and

Page 1 of 15

WHEREAS, each governing body approving this MOU finds that the Tax is in the
public interest.

THEREFORE, it is hereby agreed as follows:

3.	District

County shall be the “district” for purposes of the Tax, but Cities hereby accept
responsibility for the administration of the Tax to the extent called for herein. County
shall contract with the State Board of Equalization to administer and collect the Tax, as
provided for in state law.

4.	Auditor’s Duties

A.	Pursuant to Government Code section 50075.1, subdivision (c), County’s
Auditor shall maintain a separate fund to receive and disburse Tax revenues in
accordance with the ordinance adopting the Tax (“Ordinance”), the terms of this MOU,
any and all contracts with the state for collection and administration of the Tax, and any
resolution or indenture or similar document providing for the issuance of bonds or other
obligations of any Party under section 3A of the Ordinance.

B.	The first disbursement by the Auditor to each of the Parties shall be made as
soon as reasonably possible after the end of the calendar quarter immediately following
the first calendar quarter in which County receives Tax revenues from the State Board of
Equalization, As used herein, a “calendar quarter” includes any of the following periods:
January 1 to March 31, April 1 to June 30, July 1 to September 30, and October 1 to
December 31. Thereafter, disbursements shall be made at regular quarterly intervals.

C.	Annually, County’s Auditor shall generate the report required by
Government Code section 50075,3, which shall state the amount of Tax funds collected
and expended in the fiscal year closing prior to the issuance of the report, and shall
describe the status of any project herein required or authorized to be funded. The report
shall be submitted to the Citizens’ Oversight Committee described in Paragraph 8 of this
MOU.

D.	Each Party hereby agrees to cooperate expeditiously and fully with any
requests for information made to that Party by County’s Auditor in order to gather
information necessary to prepare the annual report required by Government Code section
50075.3. The Auditor in his or her discretion may request that a City’s officials prepare
that portion of the annual report that relates to the City’s operations, and said request
likewise shall be complied with expeditiously and fully.

F. The Parties may by separate agreement allow for equitable distribution of
the Auditors expenses in performing the duties described in this Paragraph 4.

5.	Parties’ Obligations

In addition to every other obligation created by this MOU or any other relevant
source of law, each fiscal year County will appropriate funds from the special fund
created pursuant to Paragraph 4.A above to the Parties according to the formula described
in Paragraph 6 below, except where the Auditor has authority to repay bonds and related
expenses directly from a Party’s apportionment. Each Party shall then deposit its
allocation in a special fund within its own treasury, which shall be used only for the
purposes described in Paragraph 6. Allocations to Cities shall be deemed and treated as
irrevocable grants from County, and unless otherwise required by state or federal law,
County shall exercise no supervision over City’s use of said grant funds. However, if any
action or omission by any Party impairs the ability of County or of any other Party to
receive or use Tax revenues, the Parties shall meet and confer in good faith an attempt to
resolve the situation before resorting to alternative dispute resolution or judicial action.

6.	Expenditure Plan

A.	Funds shall be distributed among the Parties according to the following
formula:

1.	Each fiscal year in which the Tax is collected, using data of the
California Department of Finance, the Auditor shall determine the unincorporated
population of County and population of each City. The Department of Finance annual
population report released most recently prior to the beginning of the fiscal year in
question shall be used for this purpose. Thus, for example, for the fiscal year beginning
on July 1, 2016, if the Department of Finance’s annual population report as of January 1,
2016, is issued and made publicly available prior to July 1, 2016, then the Auditor would
use that report as the basis for calculation. If for any reason (e.g., a change in statutory
deadlines) the annual report as of January 1, 2016, were not available by July 1, 2016,
then the Auditor would rely upon the annual report as of January 1,2015.

2.	Using California Department of Rehabilitations and Correction
prison population data (available as of January 2016, at: http://www.cdcr.ca.gov/
ReportsResearch/OffenderlnformationServicesBranch/Monthly/
Monthly_Tpopla_Archive.html) for the December 31 prior to the January 1 from which
the population data used for purposes to Paragraph 6.A.1 above is derived, the Auditor
shall subtract from the populations of Avenal and Corcoran the populations of the state
prisons located within those cities and add the subtracted totals to the unincorporated
population. Thus, for example, if January 1,2016 Department of Finance population
figures are used to determine jurisdictions’ populations for the fiscal year beginning on

July 1,2016, then prison population data as of December 31,2015, would be used to
make the prison population adjustments described herein.

3.	Using the population totals derived as described above in Paragraph
6.A.1, as adjusted pursuant to Paragraph 6.A.2, the Auditor shall determine the
percentage of County’s total population residing in each City and in the unincorporated
area of County. Said percentages shall be rounded to the nearest tenth of one percent, but
adjusted as necessary to total 100 percent. For example, the numbers 6.30, 8.46, 37.37,
16.48, and 31.39, would round to 6.3, 8.5, 37.4, 16.5, and 31.4. However, the latter
rounded series would total 100.1 percent, so that the lowest fractional portion of a number
to be round up would need to be adjusted downward as follows: 6.3, 8.4, 37.4, 16.5, and
31.4.

4.	Each Party’s final adjusted percentage, as determined pursuant to
Paragraph 6.A.3 above, shall form the basis of that Party’s allocation of Tax revenues.

5.	If any of the statistics required by this Paragraph 6.A to be used to
calculate the Parties’ allocations of Tax revenues should become unavailable, then the
County Administrative Officer and city manager of each City shall collectively agree
upon a source of data to use instead, and should consult with the director of the Kings
County Association of Governments to identify recommended sources of data.

6.	Within 30 days after the annual making of the calculations required
by this Paragraph 6.A, the Auditor shall transmit the calculations in writing to the Cities’
finance directors. If no objection is made to the Auditor in writing within 30 days after
the date on which the Auditor sent the data, then the Auditor’s calculations shall be
conclusive. If an objection is made, the Auditor shall recheck the calculations. If the
Auditor agrees with an objection, then the calculations shall be adjusted accordingly, and
the Auditor shall provide written notice of the change to all City finance directors. If the
Auditor disagrees, written notice of that determination shall likewise be provided. If any
Party disputes such an adjustment, or if no adjustment is made in response to an objection
because the Auditor disagrees with the objection, any judicial action or other formal
dispute resolution proceedings shall be initiated within 30 days after receipt of notice of
the Auditor’s determination by the finance director of the Party disputing that
determination. Upon resolution, any necessary adjustment to disbursements previously
made in reliance upon calculations determined to be incorrect shall be made in the next
quarterly disbursement, but no interest shall be due thereon. Notices and calculations
provided to the finance directors of the Cities pursuant to this Paragraph 6.A.6 shall be
identical for all Cities. The source of all data used in the calculations is a matter of public
record, as described herein; however, the Auditor will respond to questions from Cities
regarding those sources and the manner in which the calculations were made.

Page 4 of 15

7.	In the event that any Party’s governing body fails to ratify this MOU,
the Party’s annual allocation shall be allocated equitably between the remaining Parties in
proportion to the ratio of each of the remaining Parties’ population to the total combined
population of those Parties, determined using methods substantially consistent with the
methods described above in Paragraphs 6.B.1 to 6.B.6.

B.	Funds allocated to each of the Parties shall be used as described in this
Paragraph 6.B. As used herein, the term “frontline equipment” means any equipment
used in the community for police or fire operations, but does not include such items as
office furniture or supplies. Any reference herein to repayment of bonds with future Tax
revenues includes payment of principal, interest, origination fees, debt servicing, and
related fees and expenses. As used herein, the term “legitimate public safety purpose”
means any of the following:

1.	Training for public safety personnel.

2.	Creation or expansion of neighborhood crime prevention programs
and anti-gang, anti-drug, and anti-bullying programs. Such programs may be carried out
by a Party directly, or the Party may offer grants to, or work cooperatively with,
neighborhood associations, schools, or similar organizations.

3.	Any other public safety purpose reasonably calculated to —

a.	Improve police and fire response times;

b.	Reduce recidivism;

c.	Help government agencies, private businesses, and residents
prepare for and prevent fires or crimes; or

d.	Otherwise reduce crime rates.

County: Exactly half of County’s allocation shall be appropriated annually by the County
Board of Supervisors for use by the Kings County Sheriffs Office (“KCSO”), and half
shall be appropriated to the Kings County Fire Department (“KCFD”). These two
agencies shall use the funds as follows:

1.	KCSO:

The initial revenues shall be used for staffing. KCSO will use Tax revenues to
hire more deputy sheriffs on patrol and in the County jail. Current estimates would allow
the Sheriff to hire minimally six (6) more deputy sheriffs. With the recent expansion of
the jail facilities AB900 (Assembly Bill 900 phase II) and SB 1022 (senate Bill 1022) the

Page 5 of 15

Sheriff is in need of more sworn deputy sheriffs to staff the opening of the expansions.
During the recession of 2008/2009, in an agreement between the former Sheriff and the
Board of Supervisors, six (6) patrol deputy positions were frozen. This caused a
reduction in staffing for the outlying areas of Corcoran and Kettleman City, and these
reductions are still affecting staffing today. The tax proceeds would also be used to
bolster patrol staffing positions throughout the county, including the outlying areas.

After meeting the staffing needs described above, any Tax revenue received in any
fiscal year riot needed for personnel expenses may be used by the Sheriff with approval
from the Board of Supervisors as follows: (1) to build or rehabilitate facilities to house
KCSO operations; (2) to replace aging and/or outdated frontline equipment; (3) to hold
funds in reserve to purchase frontline equipment in future years; and/or (4) for any other
legitimate public safety purpose relating to crime prevention. For the purpose of building
or rehabilitating facilities, the County is hereby authorized to issue bonds to be repaid
from any and all Tax revenues received in future years that are determined by the Sheriff,
with the concurrence of the Board of Supervisors, not to be needed for personnel
expenses or other priorities.

2.	KCFD:

Currently KCFD has four (4) fire stations that have only one (1) firefighter during
the 24 hour duty shift. This poses a safety concern and limits the operational capability of
units responding to emergencies. KCFD will use Tax revenues to hire additional
firefighters to eliminate one-person staffing of fire stations and to ensure that an effective
response force is available for emergencies.

After meeting the staffing needs described above, any Tax revenue received in any
fiscal year not needed for personnel expenses may be used by the Fire Chief with
approval from the Board of Supervisors as follows: (1) to build or rehabilitate facilities to
house KCFD operations; (2) to replace aging and/or outdated frontline equipment; (3) to
hold funds in reserve to purchase frontline equipment in future years; and/or (4) for any
other legitimate public safety purpose relating to fire safety. For the purpose of building
or rehabilitating facilities, the County is hereby authorized to issue bonds to be repaid
from any and all Tax revenues received in future years that are determined by the Fire
Chief, with the concurrence of the Board of Supervisors, not to be needed for personnel
expenses or other priorities.

Avenal:

The City of Avenal anticipates future needs as follows: (1) additional police
officers and support staff; (2) construction of new and/or expanded facilities; (3)
rehabilitation of existing facilities; and (4) additional frontline police equipment. To meet
these needs, each year in which the City receives revenue from the Tax, the City Council

Page 6 of 15

will approve on the recommendation of the City Manager and Police Chief an expenditure
plan, which may be included as part of the annual City budget. Expenditures of Tax
revenues under the plan will not supplant existing general fund and/or development
impact fee fund expenditures.

In developing the annual expenditure plan, any Tax revenues determined by the
City Council not to be needed for personnel costs may be used to purchase frontline
police equipment, may be held in reserve to purchase such equipment in a future year, or
may be used for other legitimate public safety purposes. In order to meet the City’s need
for new and/or expanded facilities or the rehabilitation of aging existing facilities, each
year any and all Tax revenues may also be allocated for the construction and
rehabilitation of facilities to house and support police operations; therefore, the City is
hereby authorized to issue bonds for facility construction to be repaid from Tax revenues
in future years.

Corcoran:

Revenues generated through the Tax will be entirely dedicated to public safety
purposes in the City of Corcoran. This plan is intended to create the flexibility needed to
maintain and improve public safety activities in Corcoran through locally generated
funds. Each year in which the City receives Tax revenue, the City will allocate the use of
funds through the budgetary process. The City Council reserves the right to allocate
revenues from the Tax at its discretion based upon the approved plan, and will determine
with City staff the local public safety priorities and needs of the community. Tax
revenues may be used for any of the following:

1.	Public safety personnel costs, including training of safety personnel;

2.	The implementation or expansion of local public safety programs and
initiatives;

3.	Frontline supplies and equipment;

4.	Rehabilitation of existing public safety facilities or construction of new
public safety facilities; for which purpose the City is hereby authorized to issue bonds for
facility construction to be repaid from any and all Tax revenues received in future years;
and

5.	Any other legitimate public safety purpose.

//

//

Page 7 of 15

Hanford:

The City’s current police station is outdated and insufficiently small to meet
current needs, and the City anticipates building an additional fire station to reduce
response times citywide. The City also has the following unmet and anticipated public
safety needs: (1) to hire additional sworn police officers and firefighters; (2) to purchase
additional frontline police and fire equipment; and (3) to rehabilitate existing police and
fire facilities. In the future, the City may have need for additional new police and fire
facilities not currently anticipated.

To meet these needs, each year in which the City receives revenue from the Tax,
the City Council will approve on the recommendation of the City Manager and Police and
Fire Chiefs an expenditure plan, which may be included as part of the annual City budget.
Expenditures of Tax revenues under the plan will not supplant existing general fund
and/or development impact fee fund expenditures.

Each year, any and all Tax revenues may be allocated for the construction and
rehabilitation of facilities to house police and fire operations, and the City is hereby
authorized to issue bonds for facility construction to be repaid from Tax revenues in
future years. Any funds determined by the City Council not to be needed to rehabilitate
and construct facilities or to repay bonds authorized herein should be used to hire
additional sworn police officers and/or firefighters, or to pay the salaries and benefits of
police officers and firefighters hired in previous years with Tax revenues. Any Tax
revenues determined by the City Council not to be needed for personnel costs may be
used to purchase frontline police or fire equipment, may be held in reserve to purchase
frontline police or fire equipment in a future year, or may be used for any other legitimate
public safety purpose.

Lemoore:

Each year in which the City receives Tax revenue, the City Council will, as part of
its annual budget, adopt a plan allocating Tax revenues for public safety purposes. Any
and all Tax revenues may be allocated for the construction and rehabilitation of facilities
to house police and fire operations, and the City is hereby authorized to issue bonds for
facility construction to be repaid from Tax revenues in future years. The City may also
hold Tax revenues in reserve for future projects to rehabilitate or construct public safety
facilities.

Any funds determined by the City Council not to be needed to rehabilitate or
construct facilities or to repay bonds authorized by this funding plan should be used to
hire additional sworn police officers and firefighters, or to pay the salaries and benefits of
police officers and firefighters hired in previous years using Tax revenues. Funds
determined by the City Council not to be needed for personnel costs may: (1) be used to

Page 8 of 15

purchase frontline police or fire equipment, (2) be held in reserve to purchase frontline
police or fire equipment in future years, or (3) be used for any legitimate public safety
purpose determined by the City Council to be the best use of the funds.

C.	ft is understood and agreed by the Parties that the State Board of
Equalization will withhold administrative, preparation, and other expenses from
allocations of Tax revenues made to County. County’s actual receipts shall be used for
purposes of dividing revenues between the Parties rather than gross receipts actually
collected by the State Board of Equalization. If in the future the State Board of
Equalization’s fees are directly billed to County rather than withheld from Tax
collections, then disbursements to the Parties under this Paragraph 6 shall be calculated
and made after deducting fees from total collections.

7. Bonding Authority

A.	To the extent that this MOU and Paragraph 3 A of the Ordinance authorizes
any Party to issue bonds to be repaid with Tax revenues, any Party wishing to issue such
bonds is responsible for consulting with its own legal and financial experts regarding its
authority to do so and the manner in which any bonding authority should be exercised.
Nothing contained herein, in the Ordinance, or in any written or oral statement between
the Parties prior to the execution of this MOU should be construed as a guarantee that any
bonding authority exists.

B.	For any City wishing to issue bonds to be repaid through Tax revenues,
County hereby delegates to that City, to the fullest extent allowed by law, those duties
County may have as the “authority” pursuant to Revenue and Taxation Code section
7285.5, subdivision (b) and chapter 1 (commencing with section 55800) of part 3 of
division 2 of title 5 of the Government Code. For any duty determined to be
nondelegable, County shall cooperate with the City in an expeditious manner to assist the
City in issuing bonds as approved by that City’s city council, in consideration whereof the
City shall hold County harmless and indemnify and defend it in any action challenging the
issuance of the bonds.

C.	A City that issues bonds to be repaid from Tax revenues, or upon whose
behalf such bonds are issued, shall reimburse County for any and all expenses incurred by
County relating to bond issuance, debt servicing, or related expenses.

D.	No Party shall take any action that would commit another Party’s allocation
of Tax revenues to the repayment of bonds, except by separate agreement of those Parties.

//

if

Page 9 of 15

A.	There shall be appointed a Citizens’ Oversight Committee (the
“Committee”), which shall meet at least annually to review the Auditor’s report created
pursuant to Government Code section 50075.3, and to make any recommendations
thereon. Recommendations made by the Committee shall be forwarded to each of the
Parties’ governing bodies.

B.	Meetings of the Committee shall be open to the public and subject to the
Brown Act, A designee of County’s Administrative Officer shall staff the Committee as
its secretary, and the Committee shall function according to its own bylaws and rules of
procedure not inconsistent herewith. County Counsel shall serve as the Committee’s
legal advisor and parliamentarian.

C.	The governing body of each Party may appoint one member of the body to
serve as a liaison to, and non-voting ex officio member of, the Committee. Each
governing body shall appoint one public member to serve as a voting member of the
Committee. Non-voting ex officio members shall not be counted for purposes of
establishing a quorum of the Committee, and shall serve at the pleasure of their respective
governing bodies. Voting members of the Committee shall each be appointed to serve not
more than two consecutive two-year terms,

D.	In no event shall the Committee be deemed or treated as a separate entity
from County.

E.	County shall incur in-kind the reasonable cost of providing meeting space,
staffing, and copies of agenda, minutes, and the Auditor’s annual report to Committee
members. In the event that County incurs extraordinary costs relating to the work of the
Committee, County shall invoke the procedures set forth below in Paragraph 10 of this
MOU, and the Parties shall meet and confer in good faith to devise means to equitably
share those extraordinary costs.

9. Election Costs

County’s Elections Division shall conduct the election necessary to approve the
Tax. Regardless of whether the proposed Tax measure meets the required two-thirds
threshold for adoption, the Parties agree to divide election costs in the following
proportions: County shall incur 50 percent of the cost of the election in-kind, Avenal
shall reimburse County for 5 percent of the cost, Corcoran for 6 percent, Hanford for 27
percent, and Lemoore for 12 percent,

//

//

Page 10 of 15

A.	In the event of an action solely against County challenging the Ordinance or
the election seeking approval of the Tax, the Cities shall indemnify County for a share of
County’s reasonably incurred attorneys’ fees and costs, in proportion to the percentage of
Tax revenues each Party anticipates receiving in the first fiscal year in which the Tax is to
be levied. If fewer than all of the Parties are named in such an action under
circumstances where all the Parties would benefit by the defense of the action, Parties not
named as defendants in the action likewise shall, except as otherwise provided herein,
indemnify the named Parties for a pro rata share of reasonably incurred attorneys’ fees
and costs.

B.	Except as provided above in Paragraph 10.A or below in Paragraph 10.C, in
the event of a challenge to the Ordinance, the election, this MOU, or the collection or use
of Tax revenues, the Parties shall cooperate in the defense of said action, and any Party
may contract with any other Party to handle its defense. Each Party shall bear its own
attorneys’ fees and costs unless one or more of the Parties is obligated to indemnify one
or more other Party(ies) hereunder, or unless the Parties meet and confer and agree upon
some equitable apportionment based upon a discrepancy between Parties’ costs and
benefits to be realized thereby.

C.	Each Party will indemnify the other Parties with respect to all claims,
causes of action, damages, and costs (including attorneys’ fees and other legal costs)
arising out that the Party’s sole willful misconduct, or arising principally from the Party’s
use or misuse of funds received hereunder.

D.	No Party shall bring an action against any other Party arising out of
allegations that the latter Party’s actions or omissions caused the Tax not to pass into law
or take effect. Nor shall any Party be entitled to consequential or expectation damages
resulting from any non-malicious error or omission on the part any other Party that
prevents Tax revenues from being collected or received by County for distribution
amongst the Parties. Nothing contained in this Paragraph 10.D should be construed to
abrogate any Party’s indemnification obligations under this MOU.

E.	Notwithstanding any other provision of this MOU, no duty to indemnify or
defend another Party shall arise under this MOU where the circumstances otherwise
giving rise to that duty are the result of the sole willful misconduct the indemnitee.

11. Assignment

Except as provided for in this MOU, no Party may assign or delegate its rights or
obligations pursuant to the MOU without the prior written consent of the other Parties,
and any assignment or delegation in violation of this paragraph shall be void.

Page 11 of 15

Any notice necessary to the performance of this Agreement shall be given in
writing by personal delivery or by prepaid first-class mail addressed to the city manager
or County Administrative Officer of the Party to whom notice is directed (or finance
director where notice is given pursuant to Paragraph 6.A.6 above), with a copy to that
Party's counsel (i.e., County Counsel or the Party's designated city attorney). If notice is
given by personal delivery, notice is deemed received as of the date of personal delivery.
If notice is given by mail, notice is deemed received as of three days following the date of
mailing or as of the date of delivery as reflected on a return receipt, whichever occurs
first. A defect in providing notice may be affirmatively waived by a Party, and absent
prejudice to any Party, clear and convincing evidence of actual notice shall be sufficient
to establish substantial compliance with these notice requirements.

13.	Changes and Amendments; Termination

Except to correct a clerical error. Paragraph 6 of this MOU may be amended only
upon the unanimous consent of the governing bodies of all the Parties, with the
concurrence of two-thirds of the electorate. Clerical errors in Paragraph 6 and provisions
of the remaining paragraphs of this MOU may be amended only upon the unanimous
consent of the governing bodies of all the Parties.

This MOU shall not terminate so long as Tax revenues are being collected, and
shall thereafter continue into force as long as is necessary to give effect to the MOU’s
covenants and conditions.

As used in this Paragraph 13, “clerical error" refers only to those defects of a
mechanical, mathematical, or clerical nature that do not alter the substance of this MOU,
or where it can be shown clearly from the face of the MOU that the literal construction of
the erroneous language would produce a result that is so fundamentally absurd or
anomalous and contrary to the purposes of this MOU that the parties could not have
intended it.

14.	Choice of Law

This agreement shall be governed by the laws of the state of California.

15.	Integration; Counterparts; Contribution of All Parties

This MOU, including any exhibits referenced herein, constitutes the entire
agreement between the Parties, and there are no inducements, promises, terms,
conditions, or obligations made or entered into by the Parties other than those contained

Page 12 of 15

herein. This MOU may be executed simultaneously and in several counterparts, each of
which shall be deemed an original, but which together shall constitute one and the same
instrument. This Agreement represents the contributions of all Parties, who are each
represented by competent counsel, and it is expressly agreed and understood that the rule
stated in Civil Code section 1654, that ambiguities in a contract shall be construed against
the drafter, shall have no application to the construction of this MOU.

16.	California Environmental Quality Act

No Party is, by cooperating in the submission of the Tax measure to the voters,
committing itself to any project. Specific projects will be approved only if the Tax
measure is adopted by the voters, and will depend upon actual receipts, other available
resources, and public safety needs that arise from year to year. As such, the Parties agree
that there are no currently foreseeable significant environmental impacts of the
Ordinance, this MOU, or any action relating to placing the Tax measure before voters, all
of which are exempt from environmental review under California Administrative Code,
title 14, section 15061(b)(3).

17.	Construction; Incorporation of Exhibits

Unless otherwise provided in this MOU, or unless the context so requires, the
following definitions and rules of construction shall apply herein:

A.	Captions. The captions of this MOU are for convenience in reference only, and
the words contained therein shall in no way be held to explain, modify, amplify, or
aid in the interpretation, construction or meaning of the provisions of this MOU.

B.	Number and Gender. Wherever the context so requires in this MOU, the neuter
gender includes the feminine and masculine, and vice versa, the feminine includes
the masculine and vice versa, the singular includes the plural, and the word
“person” includes corporations, partnerships, firms or associations,

C.	Mandatory and Permissive, The terms “shall” and “will” and “agrees” are
mandatory. “May” is permissive.

D.	Term Includes Extensions. All references to the term of this MOU shall include
any extensions of such term.

E.	Exhibits, Any exhibits mentioned herein and attached hereto are specifically
incorporated herein by this reference and made a part of this MOU.

F.	Parties’ Intent. In the event that any provision of this MOU is capable of more
than one interpretation or is otherwise found to contain a latent or patent

Page 13 of 15

ambiguity, the interpretation that best effectuates the objects of the MOU, as
expressed in the Ordinance and by the Parties in Paragraphs 1 and 2 above, shall
govern to the extent that such interpretation does not render the MOU or any
material provision thereof void or otherwise unenforceable, and even if that
interpretation conflicts with the most literal or grammatically correct construction
of the MOU.

18.	Severability; Changes in State or Federal Law

If any of the provisions of this MOU is found to be unenforceable, the remainder
shall be enforced as fully as possible, and the unenforceable provision shall be deemed
modified to the limited extent required to permit enforcement of the Agreement as a
whole.

Should any change in state or federal law affect the enforceability of any provision
of this MOU, the MOU shall be deemed to incorporate the change in law to the extent
necessary to effectuate the objects and purposes of the MOU.

THIS AGREEMENT is entered into by and between the Parties as of the date by
which all Parties have executed it.

COUNTY
Dated:

Doug Verboon,

Chairman of the Board of Supervisors
ATTEST

Catherine Venturella, Clerk of the Board
APPROVED AS TO FORM

Colleen Carlson, County Counsel

II

II

II

II

II

CITY OF AVENAL
Dated: ____________

, Mayor

ATTEST

, City Clerk

APPROVED AS TO FORM
, City Attorney

Page 14 of 15

CITY OF CORCORAN
Dated: _________________

, Mayor
ATTEST

, City Clerk

APPROVED AS TO FORM

, City Attorney

CITY OF LEMOORE
Dated: _________________

, Mayor
ATTEST

, City Clerk

APPROVED AS TO FORM
, City Attorney

p]\2015-42-1107\57347.doc\MOU-FNL

CITY OF HANFORD
Dated: ______

, Mayor
ATTEST

APPROVED AS TO FORM

, City Attorney

Page 15 of 15

EXHIBIT 2

Shall the Public Safety % cent Transactions and Use Tax
Ordinance be adopted? The County and its four cities anticipate
the measure will permanently generate approximately $4 million
annually to be used exclusively for the police and fire departments of
these five municipalities. The tax would not be levied if the lA
cent Proposition 30 sales tax is extended by the state beyond
January 1, 2017,

Yes

No

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL OF COUNTY OF KINGS:

% CENT PUBLIC SAFETY TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX
MEASURE K

The current statewide sales and use tax rate is 7.5 percent on most retail transactions. In
2012, California voters approved Proposition 30 (“Prop. 30”), which increased the state’s sales
and use tax by lA percent through December 31, 2016. If Prop. 30 is not extended, the statewide
sales and use tax rate will decrease to 7.25 percent beginning January 1, 2017. This measure
seeks approval of a lA percent transactions and use tax for local public safety purposes, that will
go into effect on January 1, 2017, unless Prop. 30 is extended past that date. Thus, if the
measure passes and Prop. 30 is not extended, the current 7.5 percent rate will continue in Kings
County with lA percent permanently going to local public safety purposes. This proposal
requires approval by two-thirds of the electorate.

The revenues of this tax would be shared among the County and the four cities within
Kings County according to population. Each municipality would use its share of the revenues
for public safety purposes, as detailed in an expenditure plan agreed to among the municipalities.
Because the proposed tax is a special tax, state law requires that tax revenues be spent only as
provided in the plan.

The expenditure plan requires the County to split its share of proceeds between the
Sheriffs Office and County Fire Department. The Sheriffs Office would use its share to hire
deputies to bolster patrol staff and in the County jail. The Fire Department would use its share
toward eliminating one person staffing at County fire stations. After meeting staffing goals
specified in the expenditure plan, additional funding could be allocated by the Board of
Supervisors to build or rehabilitate facilities to house sheriff or fire operations, to purchase or
replace frontline sheriff or fire equipment, or for other public safety programs relating to crime
prevention and fire safety. The city councils of each of the four cities would develop an annual
plan as part of the budget process, allocating funds for similar public safety purposes. The City
of Hanford has identified in its expenditure plan the construction of a new police station and fire
station as possible uses of new revenues.

State law authorizes local transactions and use taxes in increments of Vs percent, up to a
maximum of 2 percent in any locality. For this reason, tax rates on consumer transactions vary
throughout the state. Local transactions and use taxes are collected by the State Board of
Equalization and remitted to local agencies after deducting nominal administrative fees to cover
the state’s collection costs. There are minor differences between local transactions and use taxes
and sales taxes. Detailed information about transactions and use taxes is available at:
http://www.boe.ca.gov/pdf/pub44.pdf

/s/ Colleen Carlson,

Kings County County Counsel

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Ordinance or Measure IC . If you desire a copy of the ordinance or
measure, please call the elections official's office at (559-852-4401) and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you.
You may also access the full text of the measure on the county Web site at the following Web site address
(www.County of Kings, com).

pI/2015-42-1107/55937.doc/analysis