Argument in Favor of Measure Q

Vote yes on Measure Q to keep our city safe. Measure Q will ensure our children,
families and businesses have a safe place to live and work by providing much needed
funds for our Police Department.

Parlier is a wonderful community of hard-working people and families who deserve to be
safe in their homes and property. Unfortunately, since the economic downturn of 2008,
the city’s revenues have decreased significantly while its costs have increased. This has
resulted in a reduction in the number of police officers serving our community. On
average, Parlier’s police force has approximately one officer per 2000 citizens, while the
U.S. average is approximately five officers per 2000 citizens.

Although property crimes are low in Parlier, the violent crime rate-which includes
murders, rapes, robberies, and assaults is almost triple the national average. Recent data
from 2014 shows that 70 percent of American cities are safer than Parlier. This is
unacceptable to our community, 81 percent of the community has expressed their belief
that it is very important for Parlier to have its own police force.

The current level of funding available for our police department threatens the city’s
ability to keep our children away from crime, gangs and drugs. Without this measure, it is
likely that we will not have the funds to sustain the department at a safe level.

Vote Yes on Measure Q to:

•	Maintain police staffing levels and keep emergency response times low

•	Ensure that every penny raised by the measure will stay in Parlier

•	Establish responsible citizen oversight to ensure funds are spent as promised

•	Provide a safe living environment for our children, families and businesses

The undersigned author of the primary argument in favor of the ballot measure CITY OF
PARLIER ADOPTION OF ORDINANCE APPROVING A SPECIAL PARCEL
TAX FOR POLICE PROTECTION SERVICES, as directed by the Parlier City Council,
to be voted on at the general election for the City of Parlier to be held on November 8,
2016, hereby states that this analysis is true and correct to the best of my knowledge and

VERIFICATION

belief.

\

Date:

Signed:_
Israel Lara
City Manager

7

AUG I 6 2016

COUNTY CLERK
REGISTRAR OF VOTERS

ADMINISTRATION

2016 fiUG 16 pm3:28:04

CITY ATTORNEY IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

AUG I 7 2016

CITY OF PARLIER ADOPTION OF ORDINANCE APPROVING ^EG|Sy^R OF VOTERS
SPECIAL PARCEL TAX FOR POLICE PROTECTION SERVICES	ADMINISTRATION

The Parlier City Council voted to place on the ballot a proposed ordinance to add Chapter 3.25 to
Title 3 of the Parlier Municipal Code establishing a special parcel tax to pay for local police
protection services. The ordinance will sunset by operation of law on 6/30/2022. If approved by
a two-thirds majority of voters, the ordinance would impose a tax in the amount of one hundred
and twenty dollars ($120.00) on each single-family residential parcel and each agricultural
parcel, ninety-five dollars ($95.00) per unit on each multi-family residential parcel, nine hundred
seventy five dollars ($975.00) on each commercial parcel, twelve hundred dollars ($1200.00) on
each industrial parcel, and one hundred dollars ($100.00) per space on each mobile home parcel.
Vacant, undeveloped properties will be taxed the same as the type of property for which it is
zoned. If the property is zoned for mixed-use, it shall be taxed at the higher rate for the zoned,
mixed use.

Parcels owned by the City, Federal or State government or any other public agency and parcels
owned by any public or private entity that are specifically exempted from a parcel tax enacted as
a special tax per Federal or State statute or regulation shall be exempt.

The proposed special parcel tax is estimated to raise a half-million dollars each year and
designated for police protection services only. To assure that the funds are spent only on police
protection services, the tax revenues will be subject to oversight by an independent committee
that will provide an annual review report to assure accountability and the proper disbursement of
the funds.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Ordinance 2016-03. If you desire a copy of the
ordinance, please call the Fresno County Elections Office at 559-600-3011 or the Parlier City
Clerk at 559-646-3545 and a copy will be mailed to you at no cost.

VERIFICATION

The undersigned author of the impartial analysis of the ballot proposition CITY OF PARLIER
ADOPTION OF ORDINANCE APPROVING A SPECIAL PARCEL TAX FOR POLICE
PROTECTION SERVICES to be voted on at the general election for the City of Parlier to be held
on November 8, 2016, hereby states that this analysis is true and correct to the best of my
knowledge and belief.

Date:	%	^

Signed:.	__________________

'VfenelfVan Bindsbergen
City Attorney

[00455642]

20IG BUG 17 ph4‘. 05:22