604

Dean C. Logan

Los Angeles County
Registrar-Recorder/County Clerk

Official Sample Ballot

General Election

November8, 2016

Polls open at 7 am and close at 8 pm

lavote.net

8

SCHOOL

LONG BEACH UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT SPECIAL ELECTION

Long Beach Unified School District E Measure. To improve C outdated classrooms/neighborhood schools by: improving ^ technology/labs/career education classrooms/electrical systems/wiring; upgrading handicapped accessibility/earthquake safety; upgrading bathrooms, fire alarms/sprinklers/security cameras; removing lead paint/asbestos; installin' improving student health/physical education; repairing/constructing/acquiring facilities/equi|  Beach Unified School District issue $1,500,000,000 in bonds, at legal rates, requiring ind citizens' oversight, no money for administrators' salaries/pensions; and all funds used	184	yes-*0  185	no-*o  g air conditioning; pment, shall Long  lependent audits, locally?
CITY  AVALON CITY SPECIAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION	
MEASURE X. Shall the Avalon Municipal Code be amended to V permit up to two medical marijuana dispensaries and similar ** facilities, both fixed and mobile, to operate within the City, and to permit the cultivation, manufacture and processing of medical marijuana products, subject to specified standards, and further subject to a $10,000 annual license tax and a fee/tax on each individual medical marijuana sale, until repealed by voters, and generatir  $200,000 annually?	190	yes-*0  191	no-*0  12% transaction ig approximately
END OF BALLOT	

08-183

LA 604-015

PERMITTING MEDICAL MARIJUANA USE AND DISPENSARIES WITHIN
THE CITY

The City of Avalon currently bans medical marijuana dispensaries and similar
businesses from operating within the City, as well as marijuana cultivation and
distribution.

On June 7, 2016 the City Council determined that Measure “X” had obtained
sufficient petition signatures to qualify for the ballot and, pursuant to California
Elections law, placed it on the November 8, 2016 ballot.

Measure “X” would repeal Avalon’s current ban on medical marijuana
dispensaries/facilities, and would allow up to two facilities in the City at any
single time, whether mobile or at fixed locations, to provide medical marijuana to
qualified patients when recommended by a physician in accordance with
California law. The recommendation may be either oral or in writing.
Measure “X” would also permit medical marijuana consumption at a facility. It
would prohibit facilities from locating within 1,000 feet of a public school or
within 200 feet of the mean tide line, but they may otherwise locate anywhere in
the City.

Measure “X” would permit qualified patients to form medical marijuana
collectives. It sets no limits on the size of the collective nor does it require any
member involvement in the cultivation or distribution of medical marijuana.
Measure “X” does not limit the amount of medical marijuana a qualified patient
or primary caregiver may possess, except that each patient may possess enough
to meet personal medical needs.

Measure “X” imposes an annual license tax of $10,000 per facility and directs
fifty percent (50%) of that tax to Long Beach Unified School District schools in
Avalon for drug and alcohol abuse education. It also imposes a twelve percent
(12%) transaction fee on all medical marijuana purchases, to be directed as
follows: one-third (33.3%) to drug and alcohol education for Avalon students,
one-third (33.3%) to the City’s general fund, and one-third (33.3%) to Avalon’s
Parks and Recreation Department. Because portions of these taxes are imposed
for specific purposes, they are “special taxes” under California law. Measure “X”
therefore requires two-thirds voter approval to pass.

A Statewide initiative measure has qualified for the November 8, 2016 ballot that
would legalize personal possession and use of recreational marijuana, as well as
permit indoor cultivation of medical or recreational marijuana, subject to
reasonable city regulations. At this time, it is unknown whether Proposition
64 will pass and, if so, how it may affect Measure “X”

Two sections of Measure “X” may conflict with State law:

(Continued on next page)

LA 604-073

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE X (Continued)

-	Section 20.060(1) allows physicians to evaluate patients at a medical marijuana
facility. This may conflict with Business and Professions Code §2525.4 which
prohibits physicians from being employed by, or having agreements with
medical marijuana facilities.

-	Section 20.060(D) requires a 2/3 of Avalon voters to repeal or amend
Measure “X”. However, except for special taxes, State law only requires simple
majority of voters to amend local measures. This appears to conflict with State
law.

A “Yes” vote on Measure “X” will approve this Measure.

A “No” vote on Measure “X” will not approve this Measure.

SCOTT H. CAMPBELL
City Attorney

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure “X”. If you desire a
copy of the Measure, please call the elections official’s office at (310) 510-0220
and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you.

PR-004945-2

LA 604-074

This measure is about providing safe access to medicine for residents of the
island. 25 states (including California) and Canada have laws that regulate safe
access for cannabis. Prior to 1937, doctors regularly prescribed cannabis for a
number of ailments. As the USA was recovering from the Great Depression,
Mexicans were coming into the USA for jobs and called cannabis “marijuana”.
The prejudice against these new arrivals combined with the influence of a
newspaper magnate who saw lower cost cannabis fibers as a threat to his
tree-based production of newsprint combined to get cannabis classified as a
controlled drug. To date, there has been NO injuries or deaths from the use of
this medicine, even in those states that have liberalized its use (Colorado,
Washington, Oregon).

By voting YES on this measure you will be helping the City of Avalon in many
ways, including financially, community organizations, and your neighbors. First,
the City of Avalon will receive 12% of the gross sales proceeds. Second, the
proponent of this measure states that as long as medical cards are required, ALL
the profits from sales will be given to non-profit organizations, (schools, social
groups, foundations, etc.) who want to receive a fair share of the profits
estimated to be $250,000 the first year with increasing distributions thereafter.
Further, NO salary or wages will be earned by the proponent.

California has recognized over 100 maladies that can be treated with cannabis.
The federal government has just started promoting cannabis research. Nobody
can refute the fact that cannabis is used by patients, including those with epilepsy
and other diseases, with phenomenal success. Avalon City Council has hired
experts that have stated the proposition was-well written. YOUR neighbors
deserve the right to have local access to this mild non-addictive medicine.

MARK MALAN

Proponent

PR-004945-3

LA 604-075

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE X

We do not refute the fact that marijuana is helpful and even vital for many adults
with a wide range of medical and mental conditions. We agree that medical
marijuana should absolutely be available to these people.

We do not believe however, that Measure X is in the best interests of our local
community. Current laws state that those with a prescription may smoke
cannabis; anywhere cigarette smoking is allowed but not less than 1000 feet from
a school or recreation area, as confirmed by the Avalon Sheriffs Department.
There are at least five such places in our town; Avalon Schools, People’s Park,
Machine Gun Park, Mole Park, and the Cornerstone Teen Center. When a
1000 ft radius is applied around these areas, what space is left where a
dispensary, with on-site smoking, could legally be located?

Due to the logistical issues faced with living on an island, residents regularly go
to the mainland for medical, dental or psychological treatment. It is very
unfortunate that current laws (unenforced in many mainland towns and cities)
are depriving medical marijuana users of what they need. They are unable to
obtain their medication at Leo’s Pharmacy where all other prescription
medications are dispensed in Avalon.

At this point we don’t know where these dispensaries will be located, nor what
hours they will be open. Imagine the throngs of visitors and locals coming to pick
up and use their “prescriptions” and ask yourself: Do I really want to live next
door to this?

MICHAEL PONCE
Chair CHOICES

KRISTINA THRONDSON
Board Member Catalina CHOICES

PR-004945-4

LA 604-076

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE X

The mission of the CHOICES program is to provide prevention, intervention,
and education services to youth and families on Catalina Island and to help them
make responsible decisions about alcohol, tobacco and other drugs. Catalina
CHOICES submits the following reasons to VOTE “NO” on Measure X:

According to “A Prevention and Education Toolkit for Communities” by Marc
Myer, MD, Hazelden Foundation:

-	Medical marijuana policies make marijuana more accessible and reduce the
perception of harm.

-	Medical marijuana increases the number of people using marijuana, increasing
those at risk for addiction.

-	Frequent use of marijuana affects adolescent development and often impairs
maturation psychologically and socially.

According to the National Institute of Health:

-	Chronic marijuana use causes diminished attention, memory, learning ability,
and motivation. Students smoking marijuana have lower grades and are more
likely to drop out of school.

-	Students that smoke marijuana have 75% more absences from school.

Measure X doesn’t limit the amount of medical marijuana a patient or caregiver
possesses which is “enough to meet personal medical needs”. Increased
availability means that medical marijuana could more easily fall into the hands of
Avalon youth. In numerous LA County cities this has already been reported.

Although the measure requires dispensaries be located more than 1000 feet from
school, in our very small town, complete avoidance of the facility by our children
would be impossible.

The proposed Facilities in Avalon may be open from 9:00am-12am and medical
cannabis may be consumed on-site (Section 20.06 J), again exposing Catalina’s
youth to intoxicated patrons leaving the facility, further normalizing intoxicated
behavior to youth.

Children under 18 make up a quarter of Avalon’s population; our precious
children are worth protecting. Please Vote “No” on Measure X.

KRISTINA THRONDSON
Board Member, Catalina CHOICES

MICHAEL PONCE
Chair CHOICES

JUDY HIBBS
CHOICES Volunteer

LA 604-077

The Choices program sponsors have their heart in the right place, but their
thoughts are confused. These well-minded people are neighbors and agree with
us that KIDS SHOULD NOT DO DRUGS! In fact, I think we all agree that we
wouldn’t want kids, pilots, or surgeons, to take cannabis or alcohol. The most
dangerous drug in our community is alcohol and we need to do more education
about it. Voting YES on Proposition X will provide more money for education.
In the last 20 years in California there has been no evidence that restricted safe
access to medical cannabis has harmed anyone.

If anyone thinks that having safe local access for adults will lead to more teen
usage, show me the high-schooler who can’t buy some on the black market today.
Voting YES on Proposition X will eliminate the black market, regulate cannabis
usage and provide 12% TAX to the city. Avalon’s Medical Cannabis must meet
State laws regarding potency, labeling and state tax as well.

Proposition X dispensary will donate ALL of its profits from medicine to the
hospital foundation, college scholarship foundation(s), after-school programs,
professional drug & alcohol education programs, and an assortment of other
non-profit civic groups and foundations. The Proponent is not making any salary
or consultation fees from the safe access of medicine. Proposition X will take
money from drug dealers overtown and create a bank of extra money to be spent
on our kids and in our city. VOTE YES on Proposition X

MARK MALAN

Proponent

PR-004945-6

LA 604-078