Argument in Favor of Measure “C"

We believe Nevada City is one of the best cities in the nation; to live, work
and visit. Measure C will guarantee that our Public Safety Services are able
to keep it that way.

For eleven years we shared equipment, responding and staffing at Nevada
City’s Station #54 with Nevada County Consolidated Fire District. Last year
that changed leaving the city three fire fighters short.

Initially the city implemented rotating brownouts two days a week. It
became immediately apparent that we were putting our city at risk. We were
not meeting the National Fire Protection Association standards. Threatened
also were the traditional fire insurance premiums for Nevada City home and
building owners.

The city ended die brownouts and hired additional firefighters with
temporary sales tax proceeds that expire in 2018. Without a new, permanent
revenue stream to fund three replacement firefighter positions, Nevada City
will not be able to provide the level of fire protection and medical response
services we need and deserve.

At the same time this measure will allow us to hire an additional police
officer to provide a much needed foot patrol for greater public safety and
security.

This 3/8 of a cent sales tax will generate roughly $432,000 annually._More
than sixty percent of the revenue will come from those living outside the city
limits; from non-residents who shop, dine and do business here. Our Public
Safety Services are used by residents and non-residents alike, making
Measure C die fairest method to fund these needs.

Because a two-thirds majority is required to pass Measure C, state law
mandates that these funds can be spent only as outlined above.

Help us to keep Station #54 open and fully staffed, and provide a Police Foot
Patrol for even greater public safety in our town. Please join us in voting
“Yes” on Measure C. Thank you.

Primary Argument In Favor Of Measure C

Signed:

Evans Phelps
Catherine Whittlesey
Kenneth E. Baker
Timothy A. Foley
Sam Goodspeed

Author:

Evans Phelps

Nevada City, California, Public
Safety Sales Tax, Measure C
(November 2016)

Following California’s 2018 initiative process?

Subscribe to the California Counter

Get weekly updates from Ballotpedia on: actions by the state legislature, new filings, related lawsuits,

breaking news emails & more.

Click here and start vour free trial.

Measure C: Nevada

City Public Safety
Sales Tax

The basics

Election date:

November 8, 2016

Status:

^ Approved
Majority required:

66.67 percent

Topic:

Local sales tax

Amount: 0.375%
Expires in: Never

Related articles

Local sales tax on the ballot

November 8, 2016 ballot
measures in California

Nevada County, California
ballot measures

City tax on the ballot

See also

Nevada City, California

A sales tax measure was on the ballot for Nevada City voters in Nevada
County. California, on November 8. 2016. It was approved.

yes vote was a vote in favor of imposing a 0.375 percent sales tax to fund police
fire safety services.

no vote was a vote against imposing a 0.375 percent sales tax to fund police and
safety services.

A two-thirds (66.67 percent) supermajority vote was required for the approval of
Measure C.

| Election results

Measure C

Result	Votes	Percentage
* Yes	1,594	82.42%
No	340	17.58%

Election results from Nevada County Elections Office

| Text of measure

Ballot question

The following question appeared on the ballot:m

« T° ensure Nevada City’s Fire Station remains operational, continues toprovide
essential fire protection, 9-1-1 response, and emergency medical services to the
community, and to fund one additional Police Officer for dedicated patrol and
crime prevention services, shall the City of Nevada City enact a three-eighths
cent per one dollar transactions and use tax, with all funds to be spent locally, and
subject to required annual financial audits and independent citizen oversight? m

Impartial analysis

The following impartial analysis of the measure was prepared by the office of the
Nevada City Attorney:

U The City Council of Nevada City has placed Measure C - a Measure Imposing a
Special Transactions and Use Tax - on the ballot.

Nevada City maintains its own fire and police departments, funded primarily
from its general fund. Need for a sustainable funding source to address a fire
department staffing shortfall occurred in April 2015 when Nevada County
Consolidated Fire District ended an 11-year co- staffing arrangement by
withdrawing its 3 firefighters assigned to City Fire Station 54. Attempts to
operate with remaining staff and rolling days off adversely affected response
time, causing the City to hire 3 new full-time firefighters to operate the station
full-time, 24/7 with at least 2 firefighters per shift, adding over $250,000 in
annual operational costs. Pending a permanent solution, the City used Measure L
general sales tax revenues to cover the added expense. That tax expires March 31,
2018, and use of those funds for fire services has put other improvement projects
on hold. Additionally, the City also identified unmet need for a sustainable
funding source for an additional police officer costing $120,000, and equipment,
training and facility costs.

Measure C, if passed by two-thirds of the voters, would impose a 3/8 cent per one
dollar sales tax estimated to raise $432,000 annually, with the proceeds estimated
to be used exclusively for professional fire and police protection purposes:
including the operation, maintenance, and improvement of fire and police
facilities within the City; maintenance, replacement and upgrading of fire and
police equipment; staffing and training of professional career fire and police
personnel and support staff; and expenditures necessary to support mutual aid
from and to like agencies in other jurisdictions.

If adopted, the measure would provide ongoing funding spreading the cost of fire
and police services to both the residents of Nevada City and others residing
outside the city who shop and make taxable retail purchases in Nevada City. The
expenditure plan approved by the City Council for the anticipated sales tax
revenue includes costs for 3 firefighters, 1 additional police officer, and
police/fire equipment, training & facility maintenance. Tax proceeds will be

accounted for in a special fund, subject to an independent annual audit and
review by a citizens’ oversight committee.21

—Nevada City Attorney01

Full text

The full text of the measure is available here.

| Path to the ballot

See also:	Laws	governing	local	ballot	measures	in	California

This measure was put on the ballot through a vote of the governing officials of
Nevada City, California.

| Recent news

The link below is to the most recent stories in a Google news search for the
terms Nevada City Local sales tax. These results are automatically generated
from Google. Ballotpedia does not curate or endorse these articles.

Nevada City. California. Public Safety Sales Tax.
Measure C (November 2016) - Google News

| See also

Local measures

California

•	Local measures in 2016	•

•	Local sales tax on the ballot •

•	City tax on the ballot	•

•	Nevada County measures

November 8, 2016 measures in California .
Local ballot measures, California
Nevada City, California

News and a

BF

State and local pree
Measures advancin;

| External links

Suggest a link

Nevada	County Eectjgns	Office website

Footnotes

1. I'Jumpup*°——	Nevada County,"Measure C." accessed October 18. 2016

2	jump up t0:2.o 21 [\]0fe: jq,s fexf js quoted verbatim from the original source.

Any inconsistencies are attributed to the original source.