Ballot question

The following question appeared on the ballot:[i]

Shall the ordinance imposing a tax on commercial marijuana businesses
in the unincorporated area of Monterey County only (not cities) up to a
maximum of: $25 per square foot on cultivation with an annual adjustment
by Consumer Price Index (CPI) thereafter; $5 per square foot on nurseries
with annual CPI adjustment thereafter; and 10% of gross receipts on other
marijuana business activities with no CPI, potentially generating millions of
dollars annually to help fund County services, be adopted?[2]

Impartial analysis

The following impartial analysis of the measure was prepared by the office of the

Monterey County Counsel:

Approval of this measure would impose a permanent tax on all
commercial marijuana (also known as “cannabis”) business activity, such
as cultivation, processing, manufacturing, distribution and selling, only in
the unincorporated area of Monterey County (not in cities). County
regulations regarding medical marijuana use and cultivation would only
become operative if this tax is approved. The tax would not apply to
personal medical marijuana cultivation, but would apply to commercial
recreational marijuana business activity if legalized at the state level.

The tax distinguishes between cultivation, basically growing marijuana,
and all other commercial marijuana business activity. Commercial
marijuana cultivation, currently restricted to indoor areas such as
greenhouses or buildings, would be taxed based on the square footage of
the “canopy” as specified in a permit. The “canopy” is all areas that could
be occupied by any portion of a marijuana plant; it would not be
determined by the square footage of the building in which the cultivation
occurs. For example, if a greenhouse has several shelves stacked
vertically, each within the permit to hold marijuana plants for cultivation,
the square footage of each shelf would be taxed as part of the canopy.

The cultivation tax distinguishes between cultivation as a nursery, which is
cultivation of certain products such as seeds, clones and immature plants
to be sold for growing mature plants, and all other cultivation. The nursery
cultivation tax would start at $2.00 per square foot of canopy until June 30,
2020 and then increase by $1.50 on each succeeding July 1 until a
maximum rate of $5.00 per square foot is reached. Thereafter, on each
succeeding July 1 the tax would increase by the Consumer Price Index
(“CPI”) but there would be no decrease in the tax if the CPI fell in any
given year.

The non-nursery cultivation tax would start at $15.00 per square foot of
canopy until June 30, 2020, and then increase each succeeding July 1 by
$5.00 until a maximum rate of $25.00 per square foot is reached.

Thereafter, on each succeeding July 1, the tax would increase by the CPI
but there would be no decrease in the tax if the CPI fell in any given year.

The tax on all other (non-cultivation) commercial marijuana business
activity would be based on annual gross receipts starting at 5% until June
30, 2020, and then increasing each succeeding July 1 by 2.5% until a
maximum rate of 10% is reached. There would be no annual CPI
adjustment on the gross receipts tax.

The tax would be a general tax as defined in the California Constitution,
and tax revenues would be placed in the County’s General Fund and used
for general County purposes at the discretion of the Monterey County
Board of Supervisors. The measure was placed on the ballot by the Board
of Supervisors. A “Yes” vote is a vote to approve the imposition of the tax;
a “No” vote is a vote against imposition of the tax. The measure requires a
simple majority vote for approval.[2]

Monterey County Counsels