Visalia, California, Sales Tax, Measure N

(November 2016)

| Text of measure

Ballot question

The following question appeared on the ballot:^

// To provide funding protected from Sacramento; maintain/improve essential
city services including police, fire/9-1-1 emergency/ medical aide response,
gang prevention programs/ neighborhood police patrols; maintain streets;
reduce criminal street activity; attract/retain businesses/jobs; address
homelessness; maintain youth/senior programs, and other services, shall
the City of Visalia increase the sales tax by >2- 0, providing approximately
$10,800,000 annually, until ended by voters; requiring audits, citizen’s
oversight and all funds used locally?!2]

Impartial analysis

The following impartial analysis of the measure was prepared by the office of the
Visalia City Attorney:

Measure N would institute a .5% (half cent) increase to the Transactions and Use
Tax (commonly known as sales tax) levied on transactions within the City of
Visalia. The proceeds of this tax would be controlled directly by the City of Visalia
and not subject to control by the State of California.

The uses of the funds generated by the Measure are not specified, and it is therefore
a general tax, subject to approval by a simple majority of the voters, with the
proceeds available to pay for general city services such as police, fire protection,
street maintenance, and others. However, this Measure would make the
expenditures of funds generated by it subject to the provisions of the Sales Tax
Accountability Ordinance, a chapter of the Visalia Municipal Code which, among
other things:

•	Requires that an initial plan for expenditures of the proceeds of the Measure must
be approved by the City Council.

•	Requires that an update to the initial plan must be considered and adopted after the
first year and annually thereafter by the City Council.

•	Requires the City Council to hold two hearings on the initial and annual plans
prior to adoption.

•	Requires that the plans provide for the maintenance of a 10% economic
uncertainty reserve, and dedicate 10% of plan expenditures to emerging community
needs, as identified by the

City Council and constituents.

•	Provides for a Sales Tax Oversight Board to review the collection and expenditure
of tax funds collected under the Measure, to be made up of City Council appointees,
representatives from the existing Citizens Advisory Committee, and representatives
of identified community organizations.

•	Requires annual audits of the collection and expenditure of funds by an
independent auditor.

•	Specifies that none of the funds generated by the Measure may be used to pay for
debt service costs.

The above accountability measures, and the expenditure plans that are required to
be adopted, may be changed by a vote of the City Council, following publicly
noticed hearings, without requiring reapproval of the tax imposed by this Measure
by the voters.

The Measure does not have a termination date, and there is no “sunset” clause.
However, the Measure provides that the tax shall be reviewed every eight years, at
which time the Council may suspend it upon a 4/5 vote and thereafter reinstate it,
also on a 4/5 vote, without a vote of the electorate. If no action is taken at the eight-
year review, the tax will continue to be implemented unless specifically ended by
the electorate through the voterinitiative process.

The half percentage sales tax implemented by this measure is additive to any other
sales tax previously duly adopted by the City of Visalia.

—Visalia City Attorney131

ORDINANCE 2016-21

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF VISALIA
ENACTING THE CITY OF VISALIA SALES TAX ACCOUNTABILITY ORDINANCE
TO ESTABLISH ACCOUNTABILITY MEASURES APPLICABLE TO THE
EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS COLLECTED PURSUANT TO CERTAIN SALES TAX
MEASURES ENACTED BY VOTERS OF THE CITY OF VISALIA

WHEREAS, over the last several years the State of California has gone from one financial crisis
to another with no end in sight; and

WHEREAS, during each of the past several years the State of California has reduced or taken
funding from cities, counties and school districts in order to fund its deficits and may continue to
do so into the foreseeable future; and

WHEREAS, sales tax revenues, which have been the significant source of locally-controlled
funds available to pay for essential City services, have been declining, or growth in sales taxes
has failed to keep pace with demand for services, due to changing consumer habits, including
increased reliance on internet-initiated sales; and

WHEREAS, the City of Visalia needs dependable and local sources of revenue to fund and to
support essential, necessary and appropriate general City services; and

WHEREAS, a local funding measure would provide a protected, local revenue source to limit or
prevent additional cuts to essential, necessary and appropriate general City services; and

WHEREAS, the City Council has submitted a measure to the voters of the City of Visalia that
would establish an additional half cent sales tax on transactions within the City of Visalia; and

WHEREAS, if adopted by the voters, the City Council intends that the funds collected pursuant
to such measure be subject to certain accountability measures, including planning, oversight, and
audit provisions, and therefore desires to established such accountability measures by adoption
of this Ordinance.

NOW THEREFORE, the City Council of the City of Visalia does ordain as

follows:

SECTION 1 - Adoption of Sales and Use Tax Accountability Ordinance

Chapter 3.40 (Sales and Use Tax Accountability Measures) is hereby added to Title 3 (Revenue
and Finance) of the Visalia Municipal Code, to read as follows:

Chapter 3.40 Sales and Use Tax Accountability Measures

Section 3.40.010 Title.

This Chapter 3.40 shall be known as the City of Visalia Sales Tax Accountability Ordinance.
Section 3.40.020 Applicability.

The provisions of this Chapter 3.40 shall apply to the proceeds of any sales and use tax that is
made specifically subject to this Chapter by the ordinance that enacts such sales and use tax.

Section 3.40.030 Initial And Subsequent Expenditure Plans.

A.	The City Council shall, prior to the imposition of a sales and use tax that is
subject to the provisions of this Chapter, adopt, by resolution approved by a majority of the
Council, an initial spending plan specifying the uses of the proceeds of the sales or use tax.
The initial expenditure plan shall cover the period between implementation of the sales and
use tax and the end of the subsequent fiscal year.

B.	Prior to expiration of the initial expenditure plan and as part of adoption of an
annual City general fund budget, the City Council shall adopt, by resolution approved by a
majority of the Council, an annual expenditure plan specifying the uses of the proceeds of the
sales or use tax that is subject to the provisions of this Chapter, applicable to the coming
fiscal year.

C.	The initial expenditure plan and any subsequent annual expenditure plan may be
amended at any time by resolution adopted by a majority of the Council, following 1)
submission for comment and recommendation to the Sales Tax Oversight Committee as
established pursuant to Section 3.040.040, and 2) public hearing during at least two regularly
scheduled and appropriately noticed meetings of the City Council.

D.	Following adoption, the City shall make the initial expenditure plan, any
subsequent annual expenditure plan, and any amended expenditure plan publicly accessible
at all times.

E.	Each expenditure plan shall fund an economic uncertainty fund which may only
be accessed in times of fiscal emergencies. A fiscal emergency requires that 4/5ths of the
City Council declare a fiscal emergency. The economic uncertainty fund shall equal 10% of
the budgeted revenues for the coming year and when used, either be replenished the
following year or suspended in times of fiscal emergency.

F.	Each expenditure plan shall fund 10% of the budgeted revenues in a maintenance
and emerging needs fund to be used by Council for maintenance and emerging needs of the
City. Two percent (2%) of the ten percent (10%) shall be used for youth programs.

G.	In no case shall the expenditure plan for a tax measure subject to this Chapter
provide that proceeds of the tax be used to pay annual debt service payments.

Section 3.40.040 Sales Tax Oversight Board.

The Council will appoint an eleven member standing oversight committee to be made up of
the following Visalia residents to serve up to three (3) two-year (2) terms from the following:

a.	Five (5) Council appointments, one from each of the Council members;

b.	Two (2) members from the Citizen Advisory Committee, appointed by that
committee;

c.	Four (4) members from, and appointed by, concerned groups as follows:

i.	One (1) member from the Visalia Economic Development Corporation

ii.	One (1) member from the Hispanic Chamber of Commerce of
Tulare/Kings County or the Visalia Chamber of Commerce. The two
organizations may either jointly chose a representative or alternate service
for 6 year periods. If the organizations choose alternate selections, the
beginning selection shall occur by random selection.

iii.	One (1) member from the Downtown Alliance that represents the Property
Based Improvement District owners or the Downtown Merchants.

iv.	One (1) member from the Home Builders Association or the Board of
Realtors. The two organizations may either jointly chose a representative
or alternate service for 6 year periods. If the organizations choose
alternate selections, the beginning selection shall occur by random
selection.

These members will serve as the independent Sales Tax Oversight Board to review the
expenditure of funds collected pursuant to the tax imposed by this Ordinance. In the event
the entities on this list no longer exist, the Council shall appoint other individuals or bodies to
serve on this eleven (11) member advisory body for the purpose of serving as a replacement
members for the purposes of this Ordinance.

Section 3.40.050 Annual Audit.

The City shall ensure that annual independent audits are conducted to account for the tax
revenues received and expenditures made in relation to the tax that is subject to this
Ordinance, and to ensure consistency with the advisory expenditure plan required by section
3.40.030. Such audits will be provided to the citizens oversight board as established by
section 3.40.040.

SECTION 3 Any provision of the Visalia Municipal Code or appendices thereto inconsistent
with the provisions of this Ordinance, to the extent of such inconsistencies and no further, is
hereby repealed or modified to that extent necessary to effect the provisions of this Ordinance,
except that any existing, duly adopted sales and use tax existing as of date of adoption of this
Ordinance shall remain in effect and the sales and use tax imposed by this Ordinance shall be
additive thereto.

SECTION 4. The Mayor shall sign and the City Clerk shall attest to the passage of this
Ordinance. The City Clerk shall cause the same to be published once in the official newspaper
within 15 days after its adoption.

PASSED AND ADOPTED:	STEVE NELSEN, MAYOR

ATTEST:	_________________________

MICHAEL OLMOS, CITY CLERK	APPROVED BY CITY ATTORNEY

STATE OF CALIFORNIA)

COUNTY OF TULARE ) ss.

CITY OF VISALIA )

I,	Michael Olmos, City Clerk of the City of Visalia, certify the foregoing is the full and
true Ordinance 2016-21 passed and adopted by the Council of the City of Visalia at a regular

meeting held on________________and	certify a summary of this ordinance has been

published in the Visalia Times Delta.

Dated:	MICHAEL OLMOS, CITY CLERK

By Michelle Nicholson, Chief Deputy City Clerk