Local ballot measure: A

A1

Los Gatos-Saratoga Union High School Parcel Tax

Ballot question

To provide stable funding for local high schools, maintain outstanding core academic programs and
high quality science, math, technology and engineering courses, attract and retain highly qualified
teachers, and provide programs that help students prepare for college and careers, shall Los Gatos-
Saratoga Union High School District renew its expiring education parcel tax at $49 per year for eight
years, with citizen oversight, an exemption for seniors, no funds for administrator's salaries, and
every dollar benefiting local high schools?

What your vote means	
YES	NO
A "Yes" vote is to approve imposition of the special parcel tax	A "No" vote is against imposition of the special parcel tax.

For and against Measure A

FOR	AGAINST
Kristin Gragnola	Robert Zager
President, Saratoga High School Foundation	Registered Voter
LezLi Logan	Tsehua Alex Chen
President, Los Gatos High School Home and	Registered Voter
School Club Jennie Lau  Co-President, Saratoga Music Boosters Scott C. Mosher  Treasurer, Los Gatos High School New Millennium Foundation  Bill Cooper  5th Generation Resident, Cooper-Garrod Vineyard	

Special Election • Santa Cruz County • Tuesday, May 3, 2016

A2

Local ballot measure: Measure A

Arguments and replies are the opinions of the authors. We print them exactly as submitted, including errors.

Argument in favor of Measure A

Reply - Rebuttal to argument in favor of Measure A

Vote YES on A to protect excellent education in Los Gatos and
Saratoga high schools without increasing taxes by a single penny.

Known for rigorous academic programs and superior test
scores, Los Gatos and Saratoga high schools are among the
top in the State. In fact, U.S. News and World Report ranks
both high schools in the top 500 nationally. With a strong
foundation in science, math, technology and English, 98% of
our graduates go on to attend colleges and universities and
compete for 21st-century careers.

Without increasing taxes. Measure A renews existing stable,
local funding to continue strong student achievement. All funds
will stay in our local schools and cannot be taken by the State.

California's state public education tax is set to expire soon,
dramatically reducing state funding to our local high schools by
nearly $1 million. We simply can't rely on Sacramento to fund
the academic excellence we expect from our high schools.

Measure A protects our community tradition of academic
excellence by:

•	Providing high-quality science, math, technology and
engineering courses

•	Attracting and retaining highly qualified teachers

•	Maintaining outstanding core academic programs

•	Providing programs to prepare students for college
and careers

•	Providing classroom materials like books and
laboratory equipment

Measure A continues strict fiscal accountability:

•	All funds stay in local schools and cannot be taken
away by the State

•	Independent citizen oversight and annual audits
continue to ensure that funds are spent as promised

•	Money can only be spent in the classroom, not on
administration

Families move to our communities because of our top-quality
high schools, which helps maintain high property values for us
all, even those of us who no longer have children
in school.

Like Lewis Carroll's Humpty Dumpty in "Through the Looking
Glass" saying, "When I use a word ... it means just what I
choose it to mean —neither more nor less." the proponents
assert this measure is not a tax increase. When the 2011
parcel tax expires, the parcel tax will be $0.00. This measure is
a tax increase.

Likewise, the assertion that this district needs funds beyond
Sacramento's grasp misconstrues the district's funding. The
district is an excess tax/basic aid district, primarily funded by
local property taxes, not Sacramento. Local property taxes
have historically provided steadily increasing locally
controlled funding. The 2011 downturn created a short-term
local revenue shortfall that was supplemented by a short term
parcel tax - the now expiring parcel tax.

Our trip through the Looking Glass continues with the
proponents' statement of decreased state support of
education. Yet, Governor Brown, in his 2016-2017 budget
summary, says, "As a result of both increased General Fund
revenues and local property taxes, the Budget... proposes an
increased investment of $5.4 billion in K-14 education."

Stepping back from the Looking Glass, we see that this
measure is actually a permanent tax increase served-up in
periodic renewals.

Base your vote on facts, not distortion. As the Governor
observed, California now has increased tax revenues. For this
district, increasing property values provide substantial
automatic increases in locally controlled funding. In the
current economic environment there is no need to renew the
expiring temporary parcel tax.

You should vote NO on this measure.

Robert Zager

Registered Voter

Tsehua Alex Chen

Registered Voter

Join parents, teachers, seniors, local business leaders and
many others — vote YES on A to keep Los Gatos High School
and Saratoga High School on top without increasing taxes.

Kristin Gragnola

President, Saratoga High School Foundation
LezLi Logan

President, Los Gatos High School Home and School Club
Jennie Lau

Co-President, Saratoga Music Boosters
Scott C. Mosher

Treasurer, Los Gatos High School New Millennium Foundation

Bill Cooper

5,h Generation Resident, Cooper-Garrod Vineyard

Local ballot measure: A

A3

Arguments and replies are the opinions of the authors. We print them exactly as submitted, including errors.

Argument against Measure A

Reply - Rebuttal to argument against Measure A

The 2011 parcel tax was a temporary solution to solve a
temporary problem. Because the temporary problem no long
exists, this tax should not be renewed. You should vote NO on
this measure.

We've looked at the facts and we're voting YES on Measure A.

The argument against Measure A implies that local high
school students don't benefit from excellent academic
programs and highly qualified teachers. This is not true.

The Los Gatos Saratoga Union High School District (High
School District) is a "basic aid", or "excess tax" district,
meaning its property tax receipts are greater than its state
mandated education spending and it gets to retain the
property taxes that exceed the state mandated minimum.

Historically, the High School District's tax base has increased
more than 7% annually. The problem in 2011 was that the
economy was in decline. For the High School District, instead
of the historical growth of more than 7%, the tax base
increased 2.22% in 2010, declined 0.94% in 2011, and
increased 1.18% in 2012. Rather than tightening its belt, the
High School District sought and received voter approval for
the short term parcel tax to address the recession. The
recession is over and the tax base has increased 4.30% in
2013, 7.64% in 2014, 5.64% in 2015 and 7.44% in 2016. The
High School District's core funding is its LCFF/Revenue Limit
Sources receipts, consisting of property tax receipts and basic
state assistance, which have increased from S31.9M in 2011-
12 to S40.6M in 2015-16.

The Los Gatos Saratoga Union High School District does not
require the parcel tax to supplement the automatic tax
increases it receives from increasing property values. Vote NO
on this measure.

Learn more at www.parceltax.com.

Our high schools are among the best in the country because
we are fortunate to live in communities that value top-quality
education.

Fact: Measure A does not increase taxes. It simply extends
local funding that cannot be taken by the State. Without
Measure A, approximately $1 million annually would be cut
from our schools' budget.

Fact: These funds support high-quality science, math,
technology, engineering and core academics, retain our highly
qualified teachers and prepare our students for college and
careers - not a penny can pay for administration.

Fact: Our district has been a responsible steward of locally
controlled funding - the citizens' oversight committee has
verified that all funds have been spent on voter-approved
purposes, and Measure A continues the same fiscal
accountability protections.

Fact: We know the State is an unreliable partner in funding our
schools. California's state public education tax is set to expire
soon, which will dramatically reduce state funding to our local
high schools by nearly $1 million. As the cost of providing an
outstanding education increases, local funding is more critical
than ever in maintaining the high-quality education our
community expects from our local high schools.

Robert Zager

Registered Voter

Join us - vote Yes on Measure A.

Visit www.VoteYesExcellentSchools.org for more
information.

Howard A. Miller

Former Saratoga Mayor

Joanne Benjamin

Former Los Gatos Mayor and Retired Los Gatos High School
Teacher

Karen Hyde

Former Saratoga High School Assistant Principal
Pragati Grover

Former Saratoga Union School District School Board Member
and Former Saratoga Planning Commissioner

Catherine A. Thermond

Los Gatos-Saratoga Joint Union High School District Measure
E Bond Oversight Committee, Senior Citizens' Organization
Representative and Saratoga Foothill Club Historic Landmark
Foundation Board Member

A4

Local ballot measure: Measure A

Impartial analysis of Measure A

DANA McRAE, COUNTY COUNSEL
By Jane M. Scott, Assistant County Counsel

If this measure is approved by at least two-thirds of those voting on it, the Los Gatos-Saratoga Joint Union High School
District ("the School District") will be authorized to levy a special tax on real property. The tax would be imposed for eight
years beginning July 1, 2017, at the rate of $49 per year on each parcel within the School District.

The proceeds of the special tax, if approved, may be applied only to the purposes set out in the full text of Measure A
which is printed in this pamphlet. The tax may not be used for administrators' salaries or benefits.

In accordance with State law, the School District would carry out accountability measures. It would create a separate
account into which the proceeds of the special tax shall be deposited. An annual report would show the amount of the
special taxes which have been collected and expended, and the status of projects to be funded from those proceeds.

A citizens oversight committee is to provide oversight concerning expenditure of the tax revenues.

The special parcel tax is to be collected in the same manner, and subject to the same interest and penalties, as those
property taxes which are based upon property value.

An owner of contiguous parcels meeting specified criteria may apply to have the parcels treated as a single parcel for
purposes of the parcel tax.

Property owners who are 65 years of age or older by June 30 of the fiscal year immediately preceding the year in which
the tax would apply, or who are receiving specified governmental benefits and meeting other criteria, may obtain an
exemption if the property is used solely for owner-occupied, single family residential purposes, by applying prior to June
15 of any year. Property owners currently exempted from the School District's expiring Measure A parcel tax would be
exempted from this new parcel tax without having to file a new application. The School District may establish procedures
to verify continued qualification for previously granted exemptions.

The School District Board of Trustees proposes to reduce the amount of this parcel tax if it were to have an unintended
effect of decreasing or offsetting local, state or federal government funding sources that would otherwise be available to
the School District.

Any necessary increases in the School District's appropriations limit will be accomplished pursuant to State law, in order
to permit proceeds of the special tax to be spent for the authorized purposes.

This measure has been placed on the ballot by the Board of Trustees of the Los Gatos-Saratoga Joint Union High School
District.

A "yes" vote is to approve imposition of the special parcel tax.

A "no" vote is against imposition of the special parcel tax.

Full text of Measure A

Los Gatos-Saratoga Union High School District
Core Academic Programs Funding Measure A

INTRODUCTION AND PURPOSE

To continue to ensure reliable funding for Los Gatos and Saratoga High Schools that cannot be taken by the State, support
for core academic programs such as science, math, technology and engineering, attract and retain highly qualified
teachers, to maintain programs to prepare students for college and careers in demand, and to provide classroom
materials such as books and laboratory equipment, with no proceeds used for administrators' salaries, benefits and
pensions, the Los Gatos-Saratoga Union High School District ("District") proposes to renew and extend its existing core
academic programs parcel tax for a period of eight years from its current expiration date (June 30, 2017) starting on July 1,
2017 at a rate of $49 per parcel per year, with an exemption available for senior citizens and certain disabled persons, and
to implement accountability measures, including citizen oversight, to ensure the funds are used to:

Special Election • Santa Cruz County • Tuesday, May 3, 2016

Local ballot measure: A

A5

Maintain high quality science, math, technology and engineering courses;

•	Attract and retain highly qualified teachers;

•	Maintain outstanding core academic programs;

•	Provide programs and counseling to prepare students for college and careers; and

•	Provide classroom materials such as books and science laboratory equipment.

The proceeds of the parcel tax shall be deposited into a separate account created by the District.

DEFINITION OF "PARCEL"

For purposes of the core academic programs parcel tax, the term “Parcel" means any parcel of land which lies wholly or
partially within the boundaries of the Los Gatos-Saratoga Union High School District, that receives a separate tax bill for
ad valorem property taxes from either the Santa Clara County Assessor/Tax Collector or the Santa Cruz County
Assessor/Tax Collector, as applicable. All property that is otherwise exempt from or upon which are levied no ad valorem
property taxes in any year shall also be exempt from the core academic programs parcel tax in such year.

For purposes of this core academic programs parcel tax, any such "Parcels" which are (i) contiguous, and (ii) used solely
for owner-occupied, single-family residential purposes, and (iii) held under identical ownership may, by submitting to the
District an application of the owners thereof by June 15 of any year, be treated as a single "parcel" for purposes of the
levy of the core academic programs parcel tax.

EXEMPTION FOR SENIORS AND SSI RECIPIENTS

Pursuant to California Government Code Section 50079 (b)(1), any owner of a Parcel used solely for owner-occupied,
single-family residential purposes and who are either (a) 65 years of age or older on or before June 30 of the fiscal year
immediately preceding the year in which the tax would apply, or (b) persons receiving Supplemental Security Income for a
disability, regardless of age, or (c) receiving Social Security Disability Insurance benefits, regardless of age, whose yearly
income does not exceed 250 percent of the 2012 federal poverty guidelines issued by the United States Department of
Health and Human Services, may obtain an exemption from the parcel tax by submitting an application therefore, by
June 15 of any year, to the District.

Persons currently exempted from the District's expiring Measure A parcel tax shall automatically be exempted from this
Measure without having to file a new application.

The District may establish administrative procedures to periodically verify the continuance of any previously granted
exemption.

With respect to all general property tax matters within its jurisdiction, the Santa Clara and Santa Cruz County
Assessor/Tax Collectors, respectively, or other appropriate county tax officials, shall make all final determinations of tax
exemption or relief for any reason, and that decision shall be final and binding. With respect to matters specific to the levy
of the core academic programs parcel tax, including any exemptions and the classification of property for purposes of
calculating the tax, the decisions of the District shall be final and binding.

REDUCTION IN TAX IF RESULT IS LESS OTHER GOVERNMENT SUPPORT

The collection of the core academic programs parcel tax is not intended to decrease or offset any increase in local, state
or federal government revenue sources that would otherwise be available to the District during the period of the parcel
tax. In the event that the levy and collection does have such an effect, the District may cease the levy or shall reduce the
parcel tax to the extent that such action would restore the amount of the decrease or offset in other revenues.

ACCOUNTABILITY MEASURES

In accordance with the requirements of California Government Code Sections 50075.1 and 50075.3, the following
accountability measures, among others, shall apply to the parcel tax levied in accordance with this Measure: (a) the
specific purposes of the parcel tax shall be those purposes identified above; (b) the proceeds of the parcel tax shall be
applied only to those specific purposes identified above; (c) a separate, special account shall be created into which the
proceeds of the core academic programs parcel tax must be deposited; and (d) an annual written report shall be made to
the Board of Trustees of the District showing (i) the amount of funds collected and expended from the proceeds of the
core academic programs parcel tax and (ii) the status of any projects or programs required or authorized to be funded
from the proceeds of the parcel tax, as identified above. In addition to the accountability measures required by law, the
District will maintain its existing Citizens' Oversight Committee to provide oversight as to the expenditure of parcel tax
revenues.

Special Election • Santa Cruz County • Tuesday, May 3, 2016