HAYWARD CITY COUNCIL

RESOLUTION NO. 16-032

Introduced by Council Member Marquez

RESOLUTION OF THE CITY OF HAYWARD
ESTABLISHING JUNE 7, 2016, AS THE DATE FOR AN
ELECTION ON A PROPOSED BALLOT MEASURE
SEEKING VOTER APPROVAL RELATING TO THE
RENEWAL OF THE UTILITY USERS TAX FOR
TWENTY YEARS AND REQUESTING THE BOARD
OF SUPERVISORS OF ALAMEDA COUNTY TO
CONSOLIDATE SAID ELECTION WITH THE
PRESIDENTIAL DIRECT PRIMARY ELECTION; AND
AUTHORIZING CERTAIN OTHER ELECTION
ACTIVITIES

WHEREAS, the voters of the City of Hayward approved a 5.5% Utility Users Tax
(UUT) in May 2009; and

WHEREAS, the current UUT will expire on June 30, 2019; and

WHEREAS, at its March 1, 2016 meeting, the City Council recognized the need
to renew the UUT to maintain and preserve the level of services the residents of the City expect;
and

WHEREAS, at that meeting, the City Council concluded that all of the
information presented indicated that, to maintain and preserve current essential service levels, the
Council should call an election to ask the voters of the City to approve a twenty-year renewal of
the UUT, the revenue from which would be used to support general municipal services; and

WHEREAS, on the basis of the forgoing, the City Council determined that it is
appropriate to submit a ballot measure regarding a twenty-year renewal of the UUT to the voters
of the City of Hayward for their approval and adoption at the general municipal election to be
held in the City on June 7, 2016; and

WHEREAS, the Hayward City Council is authorized by California Elections
Code Section 9222 to place such measure before the voters; and

WHEREAS, Elections Code Sections 9281 through 9287 set forth the procedures
for arguments in favor of and in opposition to any City ballot measure; and

WHEREAS, June 7, 2016 is the date of the City’s general municipal election to be
consolidated with the Presidential Primary Election and it is desirable that the election on the
City’s ballot measure be consolidated with the Presidential Primary Election to be held on the
same date; that within the City, the precincts, polling places and election officers of the two
elections be the same, and that the Alameda County Department of Elections canvass the returns
of the consolidated election and that the election be held in all respects as if there were only one
election; and

WHEREAS, based on all the information presented at the March 1, 2016 meeting,
both written and oral, including the staff reports, minutes, and other relevant materials, the City
Council finds that under CEQA Guidelines 15060(c)(2) and 15378, subdivisions (2) and (4) of
subdivision (b), this tax does not constitute a project under CEQA and therefore review under
CEQA is not required.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the City Council of the City of
Hayward takes the following actions:

1.	Recitals. The foregoing recitals are true and correct and are hereby incorporated by
reference.

2.	Call Election: Placement of Measure on the Ballot. Pursuant to California Constitution
Article XIIC, Section 2; Government Code Section 53724; and Elections Code Section
9222, the City Council of the City of Hayward hereby calls an election at which it shall
submit to the qualified voters for the City, a measure that, if approved, would adopt a 20
year renewal of the 5.5% Utility Users Tax or until June 30, 2039. This measure shall be
designated by letter by the Alameda County Registrar of Voters. Pursuant to Election
Code Section 10400 et seq., the election for this measure shall be consolidated with the
established election to be conducted on June 7, 2016.

3.	Ballot Language. The question to be presented to the voters is as follows:

To maintain City of Hayward services including:
neighborhood police patrols, fire stations/911,
firefighter, paramedic response times; preserving

pouth/anti-gang programs; emergency/disaster	YES

preparedness; city streets, sidewalks and lighting;
shall the City of Hayward renew the existing

Utility Users Tax at the current 5.5 percent rate ______________________

on gas, electricity, video, telecommunications
services, providing $16 million annually for 20
pears from the current end date, with exemptions

For low-income lifeline users; and all money used	N	0

For City of Hayward Services?

Page 2 of Resolution No. 16-032

4.	Proposed Ordinance. The ordinance authorizing the general tax to be approved by the
voters pursuant to Sections 2 and 3 of the Resolution is as set forth in Exhibit A hereto.
The City Council hereby approves the ordinance, the form thereof, and its submission to
the voters of the City at the June 7, 2016 election, as required by Revenue and Taxation
Code Section 7285.9, subject to the approval of a majority of the voters voting on the
measure at the election called by the adoption of this resolution. The entire text of the
ordinance, attached hereto as Exhibit A, shall be included in the voters pamphlet. The
ordinance specifies that the rate of the Utility Users Tax shall be at the rate of five and
one half percent (5.5%) of the gross receipts made for gas, electricity, video, and
telecommunication services and shall be collected from the service user by the services
supplier/provider.

5.	Publication of Measure. The City Clerk is hereby directed to cause notice of the measure
to be published once in the official newspaper of the City of Hayward, in accordance with
Section 12111 of Elections Code and Section 6061 of the Government Code.

6.	Request to Consolidate and Conduct Election and Canvass Returns.

a.	Pursuant to the requirement of Section 1403 of the Elections Code, the Board of
Supervisors of the County of Alameda is hereby requested to consent and agree to
the consolidation of a General Municipal Election with the Presidential Primary
Election on Tuesday June 7, 2016, for the purpose of placing the measure set forth
in Sections 3 and 4 on the ballot.

b.	The County of Alameda Registrar of Voters is authorized to canvass the returns of
the municipal election. The Election shall be held in all respect as if there were
only one election, and only one form of ballot shall be used.

c.	The Board of Supervisors is requested to issue instructions to the Alameda County
Registrar of Voters to take any and all steps necessary for the holding of the
consolidated election.

d.	The City of Hayward recognizes that additional costs will be incurred by the
County of Alameda by reason of this consolidation and agrees to reimburse the
County for any costs.

7.	Submission of Ballot Argument and Impartial Analysis.

a.	The last day for submission of direct arguments for or against the measure shall be
by 5:00PM on March 8, 2016.

b.	Direct arguments shall not exceed three hundred (300) words and shall be signed
by not more than five persons.

c.	The last day for submission of rebuttal arguments for or against the measure shall
be by 5:00PM on March 18, 2016. Rebuttal arguments shall not exceed 250
words and shall be signed by not more than five persons.

Page 3 of Resolution No. 16-032

d. The City Attorney and City Clerk are hereby authorized and directed to take any
and all actions necessary under law to prepare for and conduct the June 7,2016
election and appropriate all monies necessary, consistent with the law.

8.	Effective Date. This Resolution shall become effective immediately upon its adoption and
the City Clerk is directed to send certified copies of the Resolution to the Alameda
County Board of Supervisors and the Alameda County Registrar of Voters.

9.	CEQA. The approval of this Resolution is exempt from the California Environmental
Quality Act (Public Resources Code §§ 21000 et seq., “CEQA,” and 14 Cal. Code Reg.

§§ 15000 et seq., “CEQA Guidelines section 15378(b)(4), the tax is not a project within
the meaning of CEQA because it creates a government funding mechanism that does not
involve any commitment to any specific project that may result in a potentially significant
physical impact on the environment. If revenue from the tax were used for a purpose that
would have either such effect, the City would undertake the required CEQA review for
that particular project. Therefore, under CEQA Guidelines section 15060, review under
CEQA is not required.

IN COUNCIL, HAYWARD, CALIFORNIA March 1.2016
ADOPTED BY THE FOLLOWING VOTE:

AYES:	COUNCIL MEMBERS: MAYOR:
NOES:	COUNCIL MEMBERS:
ABSTAIN:	COUNCIL MEMBERS:
ABSENT:	COUNCIL MEMBERS:
APPROVED AS TO FORM:	

ATTEST





City Clerk of the City of Hayward

A

CaAP S

City Attorney of the City of Hayward

Page 4 of Resolution No. 16-032

EXHIBIT A

	ARTICLE 18 UTILITY USERS TAX
Section	Subiect Matter
8-18.10	SHORT TITLE
8-18.20	DEFINITIONS
8-18.30	CONSTITUTIONAL, STATUTORY, AND OTHER EXEMPTIONS
8-18.40	LOW INCOME AND LIFELINE EXEMPTIONS
8-18.50	TELECOMMUNICATION USERS TAX
8-18.60	VIDEO USERS TAX
8-18.70	ELECTRICITY USERS TAX
8-18.80	GAS USERS TAX
8-18.90	COLLECTION OF TAX FROM SERVICE USERS RECEIVING DIRECT PURCHASE OF GAS OR ELECTRICITY
8-18.100	BUNDLING TAXABLE ITEMS WITH NON-TAXABLE ITEMS
8-18.110	SUBSTANTIAL NEXUS/MINIMUM CONTACTS
8-18.120	DUTY TO COLLECT - PROCEDURES
8-18.130	COLLECTIONS PENALTIES - SERVICE SUPPLIERS
8-18.140	ACTIONS TO COLLECT
8-18.150	DEFICIENCY DETERMINATION AND ASSESSMENT- TAX APPLICATION ERRORS
8-18.160	ADMINISTRATIVE REMEDY - NON-PAYING SERVICE USERS
8-18.170	ADDITIONAL POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE TAX ADMINISTRATOR

Page 1 of 22

EXHIBIT A

Section	Subiect Matter
8-18.180	RECORDS
8-18.190	REFUNDS
8-18.200	APPEALS
8-18.210	NO INJUNCTION/WRIT OF MANDATE
8-18.220	NOTICE OF CHANGES TO ORDINANCE
8-18.230	EFFECT OF STATE AND FEDERAL REFERENCE /AUTHORIZATION
8-18.240	INDEPENDENT AUDIT OF TAX COLLECTION, EXEMPTION, REMITTANCE, AND EXPENDITURE
8-18.250	REMEDIES CUMULATIVE
8-18.260	TERMINATION OF UTILITY USERS TAX

Page 2 of 22

EXHIBIT A

ARTICLE 18
UTILITY USERS TAX

SEC. 8-18.10 SHORT TITLE. This Article shall be known as the “Utility Users Tax
Ordinance” of the City of Hayward.

SEC. 8-18.20 DEFINITIONS. The following words and phrases whenever used in
this Article shall be construed as defined in this Section.

(a)	“Ancillary Telecommunication Services” means services that are associated with or
incidental to the provision, use or enjoyment of telecommunications services, including but not
limited to, the following services:

(1)	“Conference Bridging Service” means an ancillary service that links two or more
participants of an audio or video conference call and may include the provision of a telephone
number. Conference bridging service does not include the telecommunications services used to
reach the conference bridge.

(2)	“Detailed telecommunications billing service” means an ancillary service of
separately stating information pertaining to individual calls on a customer’s billing statement

(3)	“Directory Assistance” means an ancillary service of providing telephone
number information, and/or address information.

(4)	“Vertical Service” means an ancillary service that is offered in connection with
one or more telecommunications services, which offers advanced calling features that allow
customers to identify callers and to manage multiple calls and call connections, including
conference bridging services.

(3)	“Voice Mail Service” means an ancillary service that enables the customer to
store, send or receive recorded messages. Voice mail service does not include any vertical services
that the customer may be required to have in order to utilize the voice mail service.

(b)	“Ancillary Video Services” means services that are associated with or incidental to
the provision or delivery of video services, including but not limited to electronic program guide
services, search functions, recording services, interactive services or other communications services
that are associated with or incidental to die provision, use or enjoyment of video services.

(c)	“Billing Address” shall mean the mailing address of the service user where the
service supplier submits invoices or bills for payment by the customer.

(d)	“City” shall mean the City of Hayward.

(e)	“Gas” shall mean natural or manufactured gas or any alternate fuel which may be
substituted therefore currently or in the future.

(f)	“Mobile Telecommunications Service” has the meaning and usage as set forth in the

Page 3 of 22

EXHIBIT A

Mobile Telecommunications Sourcing Act (4 U.S.C.A. Section 124) and the regulations thereunder.

(g)	’’Month” shall mean calendar month.

(h)	“Non-Utility Service Supplier” means:

(1)	A service supplier, other than a supplier of electric distribution service to all
or a significant portion of the City, which generates electricity for sale to others, and shall include,
but is not limited to, any publicly-owned electric utility, investor-owned utility, cogenerator,
distributed generation provider, exempt wholesale generator, (15 U.S.C.A. Section 79Z-5a),
municipal utility district, federal power marketing agency, electric rural cooperative, or other
supplier or seller of electricity; or

(2)	An electric service provider (ESP), electricity broker, marketer, aggregator,
pool operator, or other electricity supplier other than a supplier of electric distribution services to all
or a significant portion of the City, which sells or supplies electricity or supplemental services to
electricity users within the City; or

(3)	A gas service supplier, aggregator, marketer or broker, other than a supplier
of gas distribution services to all or a significant portion of the City, which sells or supplies gas or
supplemental services to gas users within the City.

(i)	“Paging Service” means a “telecommunications service” that provides transmission
of coded radio signals for the purpose of activating specific pagers or similar reception devices,
whether such transmissions include message and/or sounds.

(j)	“Person” shall mean without limitation, any natural individual, firm, trust, common
law trust, estate, partnership of any kind, association, syndicate, club, joint stock company, joint
venture, limited liability company, corporation, (including foreign, domestic, and non-profit),
municipal district or municipal corporation (other than the City), cooperative, or receiver, trustee,
guardian, or other representative appointed by order of any court, or any other entity.

(k)	“Place of Primary Use” means the street address representative of where the
customer’s use of the telecommunications service primarily occurs, whether the residential street
address or the primary business street address of the customer.

(l)	“Post-paid Telecommunication Service” means the telecommunication service
obtained by making a payment on a telecommunication-by-telecommunication basis whether
through the use of a credit card or any other payment mechanism such as a bank card, travel card,
credit card, or debit card, or by charge made to a service number which is not associated with the
origination or termination of the telecommunication service.

(m)	“Prepaid Telecommunication Service” means the right to access telecommunication
services, which must be paid for in advance and which enables the origination of
telecommunications services and that is sold in predetermined units or dollars of which the number
declines with use.

(n)	“Private Telecommunication Service” means a telecommunication service that
entitles the customer to exclusive or priority use of a telecommunications channel or limited group

Page 4 of 22

EXHIBIT A

of channels between car among termination points, regardless of the maimer in which such channel
or channels are connected, and includes switching capacity, extension lines, stations, and any other
associated services that are provided in connection with the use of such channel or channels.

(o)	“Service Address” shall mean die residential street address or the business street
address of the service user. For a telecommunication or video service user, “service address” means
either:

0) The location of the service user’s telecommunication or video equipment
from which the communication originates or terminates, regardless of where the communication is
billed or paid; or

(2)	If the location in subsection (1) of the definition is unknown or mobile (e.g.,
mobile telecommunications service or VoIP service), the service address shall mean the location of
die service user’s place of primary use; or

(3)	For prepaid telecommunication service, “service address” shall mean the
location associated with the service number.

(p)	“Service Supplier” shall mean any person and/or the City, that provides any service
subject to any tax hereunder, including, without limitation, telecommunication, video, electric
and/or, gas service, to a user of such service within the City.

(q)	“Service User” shall mean a person required to pay a tax imposed under the
provisions of this Article.

(r)	“State” shall mean the State of California.

(s)	“Streamlined Sales and Use Tax Agreement” shall mean the multi-state agreement
commonly known and referred to the Streamlined Sales and Use Tax Agreement, and as it is
amended from time to time.

(t)	“Tax Administrator” means the Finance Director of the City or his or her designee.

(u)	“Telecommunications Channel” is a physical or virtual path of telecommunications
over which signals are transmitted between or among customer channel termination points (i.e., the
location where the customer either inputs or receives the telecommunications).

(v)	“Telecommunications Services” means the transmission, conveyance, or routing of
voice, data, audio, video, or any other information of signals to a point, or between or among points,
whatever the technology used. The term “telecommunications services” includes such
transmission, conveyance, or routing in which computer processing applications are used to act on
the form, code or protocol of the content for purposes of transmission, conveyance or routing,
without regard to whether such services are referred to as voice over internet protocol (VoIP)
services or are classified by the Federal Telecommunications Commission as enhanced or value
added, and includes video and/or data services that are functionally integrated with
“telecommunications services”. “Telecommunications services” include, but are not limited to, the
following services, regardless of the manner or basis on which such services are calculated or billed:
ancillary telecommunication services; mobile telecommunication service; prepaid

Page 5 of 22

EXHIBIT A

telecommunication services; post-paid telecommunications services; private telecommunication
services; paging service; 800 service (or any other toll-free numbers designated by the Federal
Telecommunication Commission); 900 service (or any other similar numbers designated by the
Federal Telecommunications Commission for services whereby subscribers call in to pre-recorded
or live service).

(w)	“Video Programming” means those programming services commonly provided to
subscribers by a “video service supplier”, including, but not limited to, basic services, premium
services, audio services, video games, pay-per-view services, video on demand, origination
programming, or any other similar services, regardless of the content of such video programming, or
the technology used to deliver such services, and regardless of the manner or basis on which such
services are calculated or billed.

(x)	“Video Services” means “video programming” and any and all services related to the
providing, recording, delivering, use or enjoyment of “video programming” (including origination
programming and programming using Internet Protocol, e.g., IP-TV and IP-Video) using one or
more channels by a “video service supplier”, regardless of the technology used to deliver, store or
provide such services, and regardless of the manner or basis on which such services are calculated
or billed, and includes ancillary video services, data services, “telecommunications services”, or
interactive communication services that are functionally integrated with “video services”.

(y)	“Video Service Supplier” means any person, company, or service which provides or
sells one or more channels, programs or individual episodes of video programming, or provides or
sells the capability to receive one or more channels, programs or individual episodes of video
programming, including any telecommunications that are ancillary, necessary or common to the
provision, use or enjoyment of the video programming, to or from a business or residential address
in the City, where some fee is paid, whether directly or included in dues or rental charges for that
service, whether or not public rights-of -way are utilized in the delivery of the video programming
or telecommunications. A “video service supplier” includes, but is not limited to, multichannel
video programming distributors [as defined in 47 U.S.C.A. Section 522(13)]; open video systems
(OVS) suppliers; and suppliers of cable television or video program delivery of any kind, be it
through channel or other subscribers or to individual buyers of programs or unique episodes; master
antenna television; satellite master antenna television; multichannel multipoint distribution services
(MMDS); video services using internet protocol (e.g., IP-TV and IP-Video, which provide, among
other things, broadcasting and video on demand), direct broadcast satellite to the extent federal law
permits taxation of its video services, now or in the future; and other suppliers of video services
(including two-way communications), whatever their technology.

(z)	VoIP (voice over internet protocol) means the digital process of making and
receiving real-time voice transmissions over any Internet Protocol network.

(aa) “800 Service” means “telecommunications service” that allows a caller to dial a toll-
free number without incurring a charge for the call. The service is typically marketed under the
name “800", “855", “866", “877", and “888" toll-free calling and includes any subsequent numbers
or other designations designated by the Federal Communications Commission for toll free
telecommunications services.

(bb) “900 Service” means an inbound toll “telecommunications service” purchased by a
subscriber that allows the subscriber’s customers to call in to the subscriber’s prerecorded

Page 6 of 22

EXHIBIT A

announcement or a live service. “900 Service” does not include the charge for: collection services
provided by the seller of the “telecommunications services” to the subscriber, or service or product
sold by the subscriber to the subscriber’s customer. The service is typically marketed under the
name “900" service, and includes any subsequent numbers or other designations designated by the
Federal Communications Commission for pay for services calls.

SEC. 8.18-30 CONSTITUTIONAL. STATUTORY AND OTHER EXEMPTIONS.

(a)	Nothing in this Article shall be construed as imposing a tax upon any person or
service when the imposition of such tax upon such person or service would be in violation of a
federal or state statute, the Constitution of the United States or the Constitution of the State.

(b)	Any service user that is exempt from the tax imposed by this Article pursuant to
subsection (a) of this Section shall file an application with the Tax Administrator for an exemption;
provided, however, this requirement shall not apply to a service user that is a state or federal agency
or subdivision with a commonly recognized name for such service. Said application shall be made
upon a form approved by the Tax Administrator and shall state those facts, declared under penalty
of perjury, which qualify the applicant for an exemption, and shall include the names of all utility
service suppliers serving that service user. If deemed exempt by the Tax Administrator, such
service user shall give the Tax Administrator timely written notice of any change in utility service
suppliers so that die Tax Administrator can properly notify the new utility service supplier of the
service user’s tax exempt status. A service user that fails to comply with this Section shall not be
entitled to a refund of utility user’s taxes collected and remitted to the Tax Administrator from such
service user as a result of such noncompliance.

The decision of the Tax Administrator may be appealed pursuant to Section 8-18.200
of this Article. Filing an application with the Tax Administrator and appeal to the City Manager
pursuant to Section 8-18.200 of this Article is a prerequisite to a suit thereon.

SEC. 8-18.40 LOW INCOME AND LIFELINE EXEMPTION.

(a)	Each household within the City, in respect to which the annual income of such
household is less than fifty percent (50%) of the median family income for the County of Alameda,
as most recently established by the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development,
is and shall be exempt from each and all of the taxes imposed by this Article upon presentation to
the Tax Administrator of a written request for such exemption and reasonable proof of qualification
for the exemption.

(b)	Any service user who is enrolled in the California Public Utilities Commission’s
Lifeline Telephone Program, also known as Universal Lifeline Telephone Service (ULTS), is and
shall be exempt from the tax imposed for telecommunication services under Section 8-18.50 of this
Article, upon presentation to the Tax Administrator of written confirmation of enrollment in the
Lifeline/ULTS program. The service user seeking the exemption under this subsection must reside
at the location receiving the service. The exemption shall not apply to any nonresidential service
location.

(c)	The Tax Administrator shall, within 60 days or receipt of an application for
exemption, determine whether the exemption is granted, and if so, notify the service supplier. The
exemption shall apply from the date of the Tax Administrator’s determination that the household

Page 7 of 22

EXHIBIT A

qualifies.

(d)	The exemption granted to a person pursuant to this Section shall become effective on
the beginning of the first regular billing period which commences after the Tax Administrator has
notified the service supplier that an exemption has been granted. Upon a showing of hardship by a
service supplier, including the City, the Tax Administrator may, as an alternative, implement this
Section 8-18.40 by requiring the exempt person to pay the tax and seek a refund under Section 8-

18.190. The Tax Administrator shall provide a refund claim form for this purpose.

(e)	The Tax Administrator, in his or her sole discretion, may require annual written
verification from die service user of his or her continuing eligibility for any exemption granted
under this Section.

SEC. 8-18.50 TELECOMMUNICATION USERS TAX.

(a)	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person in the City using
telecommunication services. The tax imposed by this Section shall be at the rate of five and one-
half percent (5.5%) of the charges made for such services and shall be collected from the service
user by the telecommunication service supplier or its billing agent. There is a rebuttable
presumption that telecommunication services which are billed to a hilling or service address in the
City, are used in whole or in part, within the City’s boundaries, and such services are subject to
taxation under this Article. If the billing address of the service user is different from the service
address, the service address of the service user shall be used for purposes of imposing the tax. As
used in this Section, the term “charges” shall include the value of any other services, credits,
property of every kind or nature, or other consideration provided by the service user in exchange for
the telecommunication services.

(b)	“Mobile Telecommunications Service” shall be sourced in accordance with the
sourcing rules set forth in the Mobile Telecommunications Sourcing Act (4 U.S.C.A. Section 124).
The Tax Administrator may issue and disseminate to telecommunication service suppliers which are
subject to the tax collection requirements of this Article, sourcing rules for the taxation of other
telecommunication services, including, but not limited to, post-paid telecommunications services
and prepaid telecommunication services consistent with federal and state constitutional provisions,
hi promulgating any sourcing rules hereunder, the Tax Administrator shall take into account, but
shall not be legally bound by, custom and common practice that furthers administrative efficiency
and minimizes taxation by more than one state of the same service usage, commonly referred to as
multi-jurisdictional taxation. In doing so, the Tax Administrator may refer to and/or rely upon the
Streamlined Sales and Use Tax Agreement, and/or any other reasonable precedent or resource.

(c)	The Tax Administrator may issue and disseminate to telecommunication service
suppliers, which are subject to the tax collection requirements of this Article, an administrative
ruling identifying those telecommunication services, or charges therefore, that are subject to the tax
of subsection (a) above.

(d)	As used in this Section, charges for telecommunication services included in
calculation of the tax shall include, but are not limited to, charges for: connection, reconnection,
termination, movement, or change of telecommunication services; late payment fees; detailed
billing, central office and custom calling features (including, but not limited to, call waiting, call
forwarding, caller identification and three-way calling); voice mail and other messaging services;

Page 8 of 22

EXHIBIT A

directory assistance; access and line charges; universal service charges; regulatory, administrative
and other cost recovery charges; and local number portability charges. “Telecommunications
services” shall not include digital downloads that are not “ancillary telecommunications services”,
such as books, music, ringtones, games and similar digital products.

(e)	To prevent actual multi-jurisdictional taxation of the telecommunication services
subject to tax under this Section, any service user, upon proof to the Tax Administrator that the
service user has previously paid the same tax in another state or local jurisdiction on such
telecommunication services, shall be allowed a credit against the tax imposed to the extent of the
amount of such tax legally imposed in such other state or local jurisdiction; provided, however, the
amount of credit shall not exceed the tax owed to the City under this Section.

(f)	The tax on telecommunication services imposed by this Section shall be collected
from the service user by the service supplier. The amount of tax collected in one (1) month shall be
remitted to the Tax Administrator, and must be received by the Tax Administrator on or before the
twentieth (20*) day of the following month.

SEC. 8.18-60 VIDEO USERS TAX.

(a)	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person in the City using video services.
The tax imposed by this Section shall be at the rate of five and one-half percent (5.5 %) of the
charges made for such services and shall be collected from the service user by the video service
supplier or its billing agent. There is a rebuttable presumption that video services which are billed
to a billing or service address in the City are used, in whole or in part, within the City’s boundaries,
and such services are subject to taxation under this Article. If the billing address of the service user
is different from the service address, the service address of die service user shall be used for
purposes of imposing the tax.

(b)	As used in this section, the term “charges” shall include, but is not limited to, charges
for the following:

(1)	Regulatory fees and surcharges, franchise fees and access fees (PEG);

(2)	Initial installation of equipment necessary for provision and receipt of video
services;

(3)	Late fees, collection fees, bad debt recoveries, and return check fees;

(4)	Activation fees, reactivation fees, and reconnection fees;

(5)	Video programming and video services;

(6)	Ancillary video programming services (e.g., electronic program guide
services, search functions, recording functions, or other interactive services or
communications that are ancillary, necessary or common to the use or
enjoyment of the video services);

(7)	Equipment leases (e.g., remote, recording and/or search devises; converters);
and

Page 9 of 22

EXHIBIT A

(8)	Service calls, service protection plans, name changes, changes of services,
and special services.

(c)	As used in this Section, the term “charges” shall include the value of any other
services, credits, property of every kind or nature, or other consideration provided by the service
user in exchange for the video services.

(d)	The Tax Administrator may issue and disseminate to video service suppliers, which
are subject to the tax collection requirements of this Article, an administrative ruling identifying
those video services, or charges therefore, that are subject to or not subject to the tax of subsection

(a)	above.

(e)	The tax imposed by this Section shall be collected from the service user by the video
service supplier, its billing agent, or a reseller of such services. In the case of video service, the
service user shall be deemed to be the purchaser of the bulk video service (e.g., an apartment
owner), unless such service is resold to individual users, in which case the service user shall be the
ultimate purchaser of the video service. The amount of tax collected in one (1) month shall be
remitted to the Tax Administrator, and must be received by the Tax Administrator on or before the
twentieth (20th) day of the following month.

SEC. 8-18.70 ELECTRICITY USERS TAX.

(a)	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person using electricity in the City. The
tax imposed by this Section shall be at the rate of five and one-half percent (5.5 %) of the charges
made for such electricity, and for any supplemental services or other associated activities directly
related to and/or necessary for the provision of electricity to the service user, which are provided by
a service supplier or non-utility service supplier to a service user. The tax shall be collected from
the service user by the service supplier or non-utility service supplier, or its billing agent.

(b)	As used in this Section, the term “charges” shall apply to all services, components
and items that are: i) necessary for or common to the receipt, use or enjoyment of electric service;
or, ii) currently are or historically have been included in a single or bundled rate for electric service
by a local distribution company to a class of retail customers. The term “charges” shall include, but
is not limited to, the following charges:

(1)	Energy charges;

(2)	Distribution charges or transmission charges;

(3)	Metering charges;

(4)	Stand-by, reserves, firming, ramping, voltage support, regulation, emergency, or
other similar charges for supplemental services to self-generation service users;

(5)	Customer charges, late charges, service establishment or reestablishment
charges, demand charges, fuel or other cost adjustments, power exchange
charges, independent system operator (ISO) charges, stranded investment or
competitive transition charges (CTC), public purpose program charges, nuclear

Page 10 of 22

EXHIBIT A

decommissioning charges, trust transfer amounts (bond financing charges),
franchise fees, franchise surcharges, annual and monthly charges, and other
charges, fees or surcharges which are necessary for or common to die receipt,
use or enjoyment of electric service; and

(6)	Charges, fees, or surcharges for electricity services or programs which are
mandated by the California Public Utilities Commission or the Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission, whether or not such charges, fees, or surcharges
appear on a bundled or line item basis on the customer billing.

(c)	As used in this Section, the term “charges” shall include the value of any other
services, credits, property of every kind or nature, or other consideration provided by the service
user in exchange for the electricity or services related to the provision of such electricity.

(d)	The Tax Administrator, from time to time, may survey the electric service suppliers
to identify the various unbundled billing components of electric retail service that they commonly
provide to residential and commercial/industrial customers in die City, and the charges therefore,
including those items that are mandated by state or federal regulatory agencies as a condition of
providing such electric service. The Tax Administrator, thereafter, may issue and disseminate to
such electric service suppliers an administrative ruling identifying those components and items
which are; i) necessary for or common to the receipt, use or enjoyment of electric service; or, ii)
currently are or historically have been included in a single or bundled rate for electric service by a
local distribution company to a class of retail customers. Charges for such components and items
shall be subject to the tax of subsection (a) above.

(e)	As used in this Section, the term “using electricity” shall not include the mere
receiving of such electricity by an electrical corporation or governmental agency at a point within
the City for resale.

(f)	The tax on electricity provided by self-production or by a non-utility service supplier
not under the jurisdiction of this Article shall be collected and remitted in the manner set forth in
Section 8-18.90 of this Article. All other taxes on charges for electricity imposed by this Section
shall be collected from the service user by the electric service supplier or its billing agent. The
amount of tax collected in one (1) month shall be remitted to the Tax Administrator, and must be
received by the Tax Administrator on or before the twentieth (20th) day of the following month; or,
at the option of the person required to collect and/or remit the tax, such person shall remit an
estimated amount of tax measured by the tax billed in the previous month or upon the payment
pattern of the service user, which must be received by the Tax Administrator on or before the
twentieth (20th) day of the following month, provided that such person shall submit an adjusted
payment or request for credit, as appropriate, within sixty (60) days following each calendar quarter.
The credit, if approved by the Tax Administrator, may be applied against any subsequent remittance
that becomes due.

SEC. 8-18.80 GAS USERS TAX.

(a)	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person using gas in the City, which is
transported and delivered through a pipeline or by mobile transport. The tax imposed by this
Section shall be at the rate of five and one-half percent (5.5 %) of the charges made for such gas,
including all services related to the storage, transportation and delivery of such gas. The tax shall

Page 11 of 22

EXHIBIT A

be collected from the service user by the service supplier or non-utility service supplier, or its
billing agent, and shall apply to all uses of gas, including but not limited to, heating, electricity
generation, and the use of gas as a component of a manufactured product.

(b)	As used in this Section, the term “charges” shall apply to all services, components
and items for gas service that are: i) necessary for or common to the receipt, use or enjoyment of gas
service; or, ii) currently are or historically have been included in a single or bundled rate for gas
service by a local distribution company to a class of retail customers. The term “charges” shall
include, kit is not limited to, the following charges:

(1)	The commodity charges for purchased gas, or the cost of gas owned by the
service user (including the actual costs attributed to drilling, production, lifting,
storage, gathering, trunkline, pipeline, and other operating costs associated with
the production and delivery of such gas), which is delivered through a gas
pipeline distribution system;

(2)	Gas transportation charges (including interstate charges to the extent not
included in commodity charges);

(3)	Storage charges; provided, however, that the service supplier shall not be
required to apply the tax to any charges for gas storage services when the
service supplier cannot, as a practical matter, determine the jurisdiction where
such stored gas is ultimately used; but it shall be the obligation of the service
user to self-collect the amount of tax not applied to any charge for gas storage
by the service supplier and to remit the tax to the appropriate jurisdiction;

(4)	Capacity or demand charges, late charges, service establishment or
reestablishment charges, transition charges, customer charges, minimum
charges, annual and monthly charges, and any other charges which are
necessary for or common to the receipt, use or enjoyment of gas service; and

(5)	Charges, fees, or surcharges for gas services or programs which are mandated
by die California Public Utilities Commission or the Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission, whether or not such charges, fees, or surcharges appear on a
bundled or line item basis on the customer billing.

(c)	As used in this Section, the term “charges” shall include the value of any other
services, credits, property of every kind or nature, or other consideration provided by the service
user in exchange for the gas or services related to the delivery of such gas.

(d)	The Tax Administrator, from time to time, may survey the gas suppliers to identify
the various unbundled billing components of gas retail service that they commonly provide to
residential and commercial/industrial customers in the City, and the charges therefor, including
those items that are mandated by state or federal regulatory agencies as a condition of providing
such gas service. The Tax Administrator, thereafter, may issue and disseminate to such gas service
suppliers an administrative ruling identifying those components and items which are: i) necessary
for or common to the receipt, use or enjoyment of gas service; or, ii) currently are or historically
have been included in a single or bundled rate for gas service by a local distribution company to a
class of retail customers. Charges for such components and items shall be subject to the tax of

EXHIBIT A

subsection (a) above.

(e)	There shall be excluded from the calculation of the tax imposed in this Section,
charges made for gas which is to be resold and delivered through a pipeline distribution system.

(f)	The tax on gas provided by self-production or by a non-utility service supplier not
under the jurisdiction of this Article shall be collected and remitted in the manner set forth in
Section 8-18.90 of this Article. All other taxes on charges for gas imposed by this Section shall be
collected from the service user by the gas service supplier or its billing agent. The amount of tax
collected in one (1) month shall be remitted to the Tax Administrator, and must be received by the
Tax Administrator on or before the twentieth (20th) day of the following month; or, at the option of
the person required to collect and/or remit the tax, such person shall remit an estimated amount of
tax measured by the tax billed in the previous month or upon the payment pattern of the service
user, which must be received by the Tax Administrator on or before die twentieth (20*) day of the
following month, provided that such person shall submit an adjusted payment or request for credit,
as appropriate, within sixty (60) days following each calendar quarter. The credit, if approved by
the Tax Administrator, may be applied against any subsequent remittance that becomes due.

SEC. 8-18.90 COLLECTION OF TAX FROM SERVICE USERS RECEIVING
DIRECT PURCHASE OF GAS OR ELECTRICITY.

(a)	Any service user subject to die tax imposed by Section 8-18.70 or by Section 8-18.80
of this Article, which produces gas or electricity for self-use; which receives gas or electricity,
including any related supplemental services, directly from a non-utility service supplier not under
the jurisdiction, of this Article; or which, for any other reason, is not having the full tax collected and
remitted by its service supplier, a non-utility service supplier, or its billing agent on the use of gas or
electricity in the City, including any related supplemental services, shall report said fact to the Tax
Administrator and shall remit the tax due directiy to the Tax Administrator within thirty (30) days of
such use, based on the charges for, or value of such gas or electricity, or supplemental services, as
provided in subsection (b). In lieu of paying said actual tax, the service user may, at its option,
remit to the Tax Administrator within thirty (30) days of such use an estimated amount of tax
measured by the tax billed in the previous month, or upon die payment pattern of similar customers
of die service supplier using similar amounts of gas or electricity, provided that the service user
shall submit an adjusted payment or request for credit, as appropriate, within sixty (60) days
following each calendar quarter. The credit, if approved by the Tax Administrator in writing, may
be applied against any subsequent tax bill that becomes due.

(b)	The Tax Administrator may require said service user to identify its non-utility
service supplier, and otherwise provide, subject to audit: invoices; books of account; or other
satisfactory evidence documenting the quantity of gas or electricity used, including any related
supplemental services, and the cost or price thereof. If the service user is unable to provide such
satisfactory evidence, or if the administrative cost of calculating the tax in the opinion of the Tax
Administrator is excessive, the Tax Administrator may determine die tax by applying the tax rate to
the equivalent charges the service user would have incurred if the gas or electricity used, including
any related supplemental services, had been provided by the service supplier that is the primary
supplier of gas or electricity within the City. Rate schedules for this purpose shall be available from
the City.

SEC. 8-18.100 BUNDLING TAXABLE ITEMS WITH NON-TAXABLE ITEMS.

Page 13 of 22

EXHIBIT A

If any nontaxable charges are combined with and not separately stated from taxable
service charges on the customer bill or invoice of a service supplier, the combined charge is subject
to tax unless the service supplier identifies, by reasonable and verifiable standards, the portions of
the combined charge that are nontaxable and taxable through the service supplier’s books and
records kept in the regular course of business, and in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles, and not created and maintained for tax purposes. The service supplier has the burden of
proving the proper apportionment of taxable and non-taxable charges. If the service supplier offers
a combination of taxable and non-taxable services, and the charges are separately stated, then for
taxation purposes, the values assigned the taxable and non-taxable services shall be based on its
books and records kept in the regular course of business and in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles, and not created and maintained for tax purposes. The service supplier has the
burden of proving the proper valuation of the taxable and non-taxable services.

SEC. 8-18.110 SUBSTANTIAL NEXUS/MINIMUM CONTACTS.

For purposes of imposing a tax or establishing a duty to collected and remit a tax
under this Article, “substantial nexus” and “minimum contacts” shall be construed broadly in favor
of fire imposition, collection and/or remittance of the utility users tax to the fullest extent permitted
by state and federal law, and as it may change from time to time by judicial interpretation or by
statutory enactment. Any telecommunication service (including VoIP) used by a person with a
service address in the City, which service is capable of terminating a call to another person on the
general telephone network, shall be subject to a rebuttable presumption that “substantial
nexus/minimum contacts” exists for purposes of imposing a tax or establishing a duty to collect and
remit a tax, under this Article. A service supplier shall be deemed to have sufficient activity in the
City for tax collection and remittance purposes if its activities include, but are not limited to, any of
the following: maintains or has within the City, directly or through an agent, affiliate, or subsidiary,
a place of business of any nature; solicits business in the City by employees, independent
contractors, resellers, agents or other representatives; solicits business in the City on a continuous,
regular, seasonal or systematic basis by means of advertising that is broadcast or relayed from a
transmitter within the City or distributed from a location within the City; or advertises in
newspapers or other periodicals printed and published within the City or through materials
distributed in die City by means other than the United States mail; or if there are activities
performed in the City on behalf of the service supplier that are significantly associated with the
service supplier’s ability to establish and maintain a market in the City for the provision of services
that are subject to a tax under this Article.

SEC. 8-18.120 DUTY TO COLLECT - PROCEDURES.

(a)	Collection Bv Service Suppliers. The duty of service suppliers to collect and remit
the taxes imposed by the provisions of this Article shall be performed as follows:

(1) The tax shall be collected by service suppliers insofar as practicable at die same
time as, and along with, the collection of the charges made in accordance with
the regular billing practice of die service supplier. Where die amount paid by a
service user to a service supplier is less than the full amount of die charge and
tax which was accrued for the billing period, a proportionate share, of both die
charge and the tax shall be deemed to have been paid. In those cases where a
service user has notified die service supplier of refusal to pay the tax imposed

Page 14 of 22

EXHIBIT A

on said charges, Section 8-18.160 shall apply.

(2) The duty of a service supplier to collect the tax from a service user shall

commence with the beginning of the first regular billing period applicable to the
service user where all charges normally included in such regular billing are
subject to the provisions of this Article. Where a service user receives more
than one billing, one or more being for different periods than another, the duty
to collect shall arise separately for each billing period.

(b)	Filing Return and Payment. Each person required by this Article to remit a tax shall
file a return to the Tax Administrator, on forms approved by the Tax Administrator, on or before the
due date. The full amount of the tax collected shall be included with the return and filed with the
Tax Administrator. The Tax Administrator is authorized to require such additional information as
he or she deems necessary to determine if the tax is being levied, collected, and remitted in
accordance with this Article. Returns are due immediately upon cessation of business for any
reason. Pursuant to Revenue and Tax Code Section 7284.6, the Tax Administrator, and its agents,
shall maintain such filing returns as confidential information that is exempt from the disclosure
provisions of the Public Records Act.

SEC. 8-18.130 COLLECTION PENALTIES-SERVICE SUPPLIERS

(a)	Taxes collected by a service supplier from a service user are delinquent if not
received by the Tax Administrator on or before the due date. Should the due date occur on a
weekend or legal holiday, the return must be received by the Tax Administrator on the first regular
working day following the weekend or legal holiday. A direct deposit, including electronic fund
transfers and other similar methods of electronically exchanging monies between financial accounts,
made by a service supplier in satisfaction of its obligations under this subsection, shall be
considered timely if the transfer is initiated on or before the due date, and the transfer settles into the
City’s account on the following business day.

(b)	If the person required to collect and/or remit the utility users tax fails to collect the
tax (by failing to properly assess the tax on one or more services or charges on the customer’s
billing) or fails to remit the tax collected on or before the due date, the Tax Administrator shall
attach a penalty for such delinquencies or deficiencies at the rate of fifteen percent (15%) of the
total tax that is delinquent or deficient in the remittance, and shall pay interest at the rate of
75/100ths percent (.75%) per month, or any fraction thereof, on the amount of the tax, exclusive of
penalties, from the date on which the remittance first became delinquent, until paid.

(c)	The Tax Administrator shall have the power to impose additional penalties upon
persons required to collect and remit taxes pursuant to the provisions of this Article for fraud or
gross negligence in reporting or remitting at the rate of fifteen percent (15%) of the amount of the
tax collected and/or required to be remitted, or as recomputed by the Tax Administrator.

(d)	For collection purposes only, every penalty imposed and such interest that is accrued
under the provisions of this Section shall become a part of the tax herein required to be paid.

(e)	Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Tax Administrator may, in his or her discretion,
modify the due dates of this Article to be consistent with any uniform standards or procedures that
mutually agreed upon by other public agencies imposing a utility users tax, or otherwise legally

Page 15 of 22

EXHIBIT A

established, to create a central payment location or mechanism.

SEC. 8-18.140 ACTIONS TO COLLECT.

Any tax required to be paid by a service user under the provisions of this Article
shall be deemed a debt owed by the service user to the City. Any such tax collected from a service
user which has not been remitted to the Tax Administrator shall be deemed a debt owed to the City
by the person required to collect and remit and shall no longer be a debt of the service user. Any
person owing money to the City under the provisions of this Article shall be liable to an action
brought in the name of the City for the recovery of such amount, including penalties and interest as
provided for in this Article, along with any collection costs incurred by the City as a result of the
person’s noncompliance with this Article, including, but not limited to, reasonable attorneys’ fees.
Any tax required to be collected by a service supplier or owed by a service user is an unsecured
priority excise tax obligation under 11 U.S.C.A. Section 507(a)(8)(C).

SEC. 8-18.150 DEFICIENCY DETERMINATION AND ASSESSMENT - TAX
APPLICATION ERRORS.

(a)	The Tax Administrator shall make a deficiency determination if he or she determines
that any service supplier or service user required to pay, collect, and/or remit taxes pursuant to the
provisions of this Article has failed to pay, collect, and/or remit the proper amount of tax by
improperly or failing to apply the tax to one or more taxable services or charges. Nothing herein
shall require that the Tax Administrator institute proceedings under this Section 8-18.150 if, in the
opinion of the Tax Administrator, the cost of collection or enforcement likely outweighs the tax
benefit.

(b)	The Tax Administrator shall mail a notice of such deficiency determination to the
person or entity allegedly owing the tax, which notice shall refer briefly to the amount of the taxes
owed, plus interest at the rate of 75/100lhs percent (.75%) per month, or any fraction thereof, on the
amount of the tax from the date on which the tax should have been received by the City. Within
fourteen (14) calendar days after the date of mailing of such notice, the person or entity allegedly
owing the tax may file a request in writing with the Tax Administrator for a hearing on the matter.

(c)	If the person or entity allegedly owing the tax fails to request a hearing within the
prescribed time period, the amount of the deficiency determination shall become a final assessment,
and shall immediately be due and owing to the City. If the person requests a hearing, the Tax
Administrator shall cause the matter to be set for hearing, which shall be scheduled within thirty
(30) calendar days after receipt of the written request for hearing. Notice of the time and place of
the hearing shall be mailed by the Tax Administrator to such person or entity at least ten (10)
calendar days prior to the hearing, and, if the Tax Administrator desires said person or entity to
produce specific records at such hearing, such notice may designate the records requested to be
produced.

(d)	At the time fixed for the hearing, the Tax Administrator shall hear all relevant
testimony and evidence, including that of any other interested parties. At the discretion of the Tax
Administrator, the hearing may be continued from time to time for the purpose of allowing the
presentation of additional evidence. Within a reasonable time following the conclusion of the
hearing, the Tax Administrator shall issue a final assessment (or non-assessment), thereafter, by
confirming, modifying or rejecting the original deficiency determination, and shall mail a copy of

Page 16 of 22

EXHIBIT A

such final assessment to person or entity owing the tax. The decision of the Tax Administrator may
be appealed pursuant to Section 8-18.200 of this Article. Filing an application with the Tax
Administrator and appeal to the City Manager pursuant to Section 8-18.200 of this Article is a
prerequisite to a suit thereon.

(e)	Payment of the final assessment shall become delinquent if not received by the Tax
Administrator on or before the thirtieth (30th) day following the date of receipt of the notice of final
assessment. The penalty for delinquency shall be fifteen percent (15%) on the total amount of the
assessment, along with interest at the rate of 75/100ths percent (.75%) per month, or any fraction
thereof, on the amount of the tax, exclusive of penalties, from the date of delinquency, until paid.
The applicable statute of limitations regarding a claim by the City seeking payment of a tax assessed
under this Article shall commence from the date of delinquency as provided in this subsection (e).

(f)	All notices under this Section may be sent by regular mail, postage prepaid, and shall
be deemed received on the third calendar day following the date of mailing, as established by a
proof of mailing.

SEC. 8-18.160 ADMINISTRATIVE REMEDY - NON-PAYING SERVICE USERS.

(a)	Whenever the Tax Administrator determines that a service user has deliberately
withheld the amount of the tax owed by the service user from the amounts remitted to a person
required to collect the tax, or whenever the Tax Administrator deems it in the best interest of the
City, he or she may relieve such person of the obligation to collect the taxes due under this Article
from certain named service users for specific billing periods. To the extent the service user has
failed to pay the amount of tax owed for a period of two (2) or more billing periods, the service
supplier shall be relieved of the obligation to collect taxes due. The service supplier shall provide
the City with the names and addresses of such service users and the amounts of taxes owed under
the provisions of this Article. Nothing herein shall require that the Tax Administrator institute
proceedings under this Section 8-18.160 if, in the opinion of the Tax Administrator, the cost of
collection or enforcement likely outweighs the tax benefit.

(b)	In addition to the tax owed, the service user shall pay a delinquency penalty at the
rate of fifteen percent (15%) of the total tax that is owed, and shall pay interest at the rate of
75/100ths percent (.75 %) per month, or any fraction thereof, on the amount of the tax, exclusive of
penalties, from the due date, until paid.

(c)	The Tax Administrator shall notify the non-paying service user that the Tax
Administrator has assumed the responsibility to collect the taxes due for the stated periods and
demand payment of such taxes, including penalties and interest. The notice shall be served on the
service user by personal delivery or by deposit of the notice in the United States mail, postage
prepaid, addressed to the service user at the address to which billing was made by the person
required to collect the tax; or, should the service user have a change of address, to his or her last
known address.

(d)	If the service user fails to remit the tax to the Tax Administrator within thirty (30)
days from the date of the service of the notice upon him or her, the Tax Administrator may impose
an additional penalty of fifteen percent (15%) of the amount of the total tax that is owed.

Page 17 of 22

SEC. 8-18.170 ADDITIONAL POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE TAX

EXHIBIT A

ADMINISTRATOR.

(a)	The Tax Administrator shall have the power and duty to enforce each and all of the
provisions of this Article.

(b)	The Tax Administrator may adopt administrative rules and regulations consistent
with provisions of this Article for the purpose of interpreting, clarifying, carrying out and enforcing
the payment, collection and remittance of the taxes herein imposed. A copy of such administrative
rules and regulations shall be on file in the Tax Administrator’s office. To the extent that the Tax
Administrator determines that die tax imposed under this Article shall not be collected in full for
any period of time from any particular service supplier or service user, that determination shall be
considered an exercise of the Tax Administrator’s discretion to settle disputes and shall not
constitute a change in taxing methodology for purposes of Government Code Section 53750 or
otherwise. The Tax Administrator is not authorized to amend the City’s methodology for purposes
of Government Code Section 53570, and the City does not waive or abrogate its ability to impose
the utility users tax in full as a result of promulgating administrative rulings or entering into
agreements.

(c)	Upon a proper showing of good cause, the Tax Administrator may make
administrative agreements, with appropriate conditions, to vary from the strict requirements of this
Article and thereby: (1) conform to the billing procedures of a particular service supplier so long as
said agreements result in the collection of the tax in conformance with the general purposes and
scope of this Article; or, (2) to avoid a hardship where the administrative costs of collection and
remittance greatly outweigh the tax benefit. A copy of each such agreement shall be on file in the
Tax Administrator’s office and are voidable by the Tax Administrator or the City at any time.

(d)	The Tax Administrator may conduct an audit, to ensure proper compliance with the
requirements of this Article, of any person required to collect and/or remit a tax pursuant to this
Article. The Tax Administrator shall notify said person of die initiation of an audit in writing. In
the absence of fraud or other intentional misconduct, the audit period of review shall not exceed a
period of three (3) years next preceding the date of receipt of the written notice by said person from
the Tax Administrator. Upon completion of the audit, the Tax Administrator may make a
deficiency determination pursuant to Section 8-18,150 of this Article for all taxes (and applicable
penalties and interest) owed and not paid, as evidenced by information provided by such person to
the Tax Administrator. If said person is unable or unwilling to provide sufficient records to enable
the Tax Administrator to very compliance with this Article, the Tax Administrator is authorized to
make a reasonable estimate of the deficiency. Said reasonable estimate shall be entitled to a
rebuttable presumption of correctness.

(e)	Upon receipt of a written request of a taxpayer, and for good cause, the Tax
Administrator may extend the time for filing any statement required pursuant to this Article for a
period of not to exceed forty-five (45) days, provided that the time for filing the required statement
has not already passed when the request is received. No penalty for delinquent payment shall
accrue by reason of such extension. Interest shall accrue during said extension at the rate of
75/100ths percent (.75 %) per month, prorated for any portion thereof.

(f)	The Tax Administrator shall determine the eligibility of any person who asserts a
right to exemption from, or a refund of, the tax imposed by this Article.

!

Page 18 of 22

EXHIBIT A

(g)	Notwithstanding any provision in this Article to the contrary, the Tax Administrator
may waive any penalty or interest imposed upon a person required to collect and/or remit for failure
to collect the tax imposed by this Article if the nan-collection occurred in good faith. In
determining whether the non-collection was in good faith, the Tax Administrator shall take into
consideration industry practice or other precedence.

SEC. 8-18.180 RECORDS.

(a)	It shall be the duty of every person required to collect and/or remit to the City any tax
imposed by this Article to keep and preserve, for a period of at least three (3) years, all records as
may be necessary to determine the amount of such tax as he/she may have been liable for the
collection of and remittance to the Tax Administrator, which records the Tax Administrator shall
have the right to inspect at a reasonable time.

(b)	The City, through the City Council, may issue an administrative subpoena to compel
a person to deliver, to the Tax Administrator, copies of all records deemed necessary by the Tax
Administrator to establish compliance with this Article, including the delivery of records in a
common electronic format on readily available media if such records are kept electronically by the
persons in the usual and ordinary course of business. As an alternative to delivering the subpoenaed
records to the Tax Administrator on or before the due date provided in the administrative subpoena,
such person may provide access to such records outside the City on or before the due date, provided
that such person shall reimburse the City for all reasonable travel expenses incurred by the City to
inspect those records, including travel, meals, lodging and similar expenses, but excluding the
normal salary or hourly wages of those persons designated by the City to conduct the inspection.

(c)	The Tax Administrator is authorized to execute a non-disclosure agreement approved
by the City Attorney to protect the confidentiality of customer information pursuant to California
Revalue and Tax Code Section 7284.6 and 7284.7.

(d)	If a service supplier uses a billing agent or billing aggregator to bill, collect, and/or
remit the tax, the service supplier shall: i) provide to the Tax Administrator the name, address and
telephone number of each billing agent and billing aggregator currently authorized by the service
supplier to bill, collect, and/or remit the tax to the City; and, ii) upon request of the Tax
Administrator, deliver, or effect the delivery of, any information or records in the possession of such
billing agent or billing aggregator that, in the opinion of the Tax Administrator, is necessary to
verify die proper application, calculation, collection and/or remittance of such tax to the City.

(e)	If any person subject to record-keeping under this Section unreasonably denies the
Tax Administrator access to such records, or fails to produce the information requested in an
administrative subpoena within the time specified, then the Tax Administrator may impose a penalty
of $500 on such person for each day following: i) die initial date that the person refuses to provide
such access; or, ii) the due date for production of records as set forth in the administrative subpoena.
This penalty shall be in addition to any other penalty imposed under this Article.

SEC. 8-18.190 REFUNDS.

Whenever the amount of any tax has been overpaid or paid more than once or has
been erroneously or illegally collected or received by die Tax Administrator under this Article from
a service user or service supplier, it may be refunded as provided in this Section:

Page 19 of 22

EXHIBIT A

(a)	The Tax Administrator may refund any tax that has been overpaid or paid more than
once or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received by the Tax Administrator under this
Article from a service user or service supplier, provided that no refund shall be paid under the
provisions of this Section unless the claimant or his or her guardian, conservator, executor, or
administrator has submitted a written claim to die Tax Administrator within one year of the
overpayment or erroneous or illegal collection of said tax. Such claim must clearly establish
claimant’s right to the refund by written records showing entitlement thereto. Nothing herein shall
permit the filing of a claim on behalf of a class or group of taxpayers unless each member of the
class has submitted a written claim under penalty of pejjury as provided by this subsection.

(b)	The Tax Administrator, where the claim is within his or her settlement authority as
established by ordinance or by resolution of the City Council from time to time, or the City Council
where the claim is in excess of that amount, shall act upon the refund claim within forty-five (45)
calendar days of the initial receipt of the refund claim. Said decision shall be final. If the Tax
Administrator/City Council fails or refuses to act on a refund claim within the forty-five (45)
calendar day period, the claim shall be deemed to have been rejected by the Tax Administrator/City
Council on the forty-fifth (45®) day. The Tax Administrator shall give notice of the action in a form
which substantially complies with that set forth in Government Code Section 913.

(c)	The filing of a written claim pursuant to Government Code Section 935 is a
prerequisite to any suit thereon. Any action brought against the City pursuant to this Section shall
be subject to the provisions of Government Code Section 945.6 and 946.

(d)	Notwithstanding the notice provisions of subsection (a) of this Section, the Tax
Administrator may, at his or her discretion, give written permission to a service supplier, who has
collected and remitted any amount of tax in excess of the amount of tax imposed by this Article, to
claim credit for such overpayment against the amount of tax which is due die City upon a
subsequent monthly returns) to the Tax Administrator, provided that: i) such credit is claimed in a
return dated no later than one year from the date of overpayment or erroneous collection of said tax;
ii) the Tax Administrator is satisfied that the underlying basis and amount of such credit has been
reasonably established; and iii) in the case of an overpayment by a service user to the service
supplier that has been remitted to the City, the Tax Administrator has received proof, to his or her
satisfaction, that the overpayment has been refunded by the service supplier to the service user in an
amount equal to the requested credit.

(e)	Notwithstanding subsections (a) through (d) above, a service supplier shall be
entitled to take any overpayment as a credit against an underpayment whenever such overpayment
has been received by the City within the three (3) years next preceding a deficiency determination
or assessment by the Tax Administrator in connection with an audit instituted by the Tax
Administrator pursuant to Section 8-18.170. A service supplier shall not be entitled to said credit
unless it first clearly establishes, to the satisfaction of the Tax Administrator, the right to the credit
by written records showing entitlement thereto. Under no circumstances shall an overpayment
taken as a credit against an underpayment pursuant to this subsection qualify a service supplier for a
refund to which it would not otherwise be entitled under the one-year written claim requirement of
this Section.

SEC. 8-18.200 APPEALS.

Page 20 of 22

EXHIBIT A

(a)	The provisions of this Section apply to any decision (other than a decision relating to
a refund pursuant to Section 8-18.190 of this Article), deficiency determination, assessment, or
administrative ruling of the Tax Administrator. Any person aggrieved by any decision (other than a
decision relating to a refund pursuant to Section 8-18.190 of this Article), deficiency determination,
assessment, or administrative ruling of the Tax Administrator, shall be required to comply with the
appeals procedure of this Section. Compliance with this Section shall be a prerequisite to a suit
thereon. [See Government Code Section 935(b)]. Nothing herein shall permit the filing of a claim
or action on behalf of a class or group of taxpayers.

(b)	If any person is aggrieved by any decision (other than a decision relating to a refund
pursuant to Section 8-18.190 of this Article), deficiency determination, assessment, or
administrative ruling of the Tax Administrator he or she may appeal to the City Manager by filing a
notice of appeal with the City Cleric within fourteen (14 ) calendar days of the date of the decision,
deficiency determination, assessment, or administrative ruling of die Tax Administrator which
aggrieved the service user or service supplier.

(c)	The matter shall be scheduled for hearing before an independent hearing officer
selected by the City Manager, no more than thirty (30) calendar days from the receipt of the appeal.
The appellant shall he mailed notice of the time and place of the hearing, as well as any relevant
materials, at least five (5) calendar days prior to the hearing. The hearing may be continued from
time to time upon mutual consent. At the time of the hearing, the appealing party, the Tax
Administrator and any other interested person may present such relevant evidence as he or she may
have relating to the determination from which the appeal is taken.

(d)	Based upon the submission of such evidence and the review of the City’s files, the
hearing officer shall issue a written notice and order upholding, modifying or reversing the
determination from which the appeal is taken. The notice shall be given within fourteen (14)
calendar days after the conclusion of the hearing and shall state the reasons for the decision. The
notice shall specify that the decision is final and that any petition for judicial review shall be filed
within ninety (90) calendar days from the date of the decision in accordance with Code of Civil
Procedure Section 1094.6.

(e)	All notices under this Section may be sent by regular mail, postage prepaid, and shall
be deemed received on the third calendar day following the date of mailing, as established by a
proof of mailing.

SEC- 8.18.210 NO INJUNCTION/ WRIT OF MANDATE.

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any
suit, action, or proceeding in any court against this City or against any officer of the City to prevent
or enjoin the collection under this Article of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected
and/or remitted.

SEC. 8-18.220 NOTICE OF CHANGES TO ORDINANCE.

If a tax under this Article is added repealed, increased, reduced, or the tax base is
changed, the Tax Administrator shall follow the notice requirements of California Public Utilities
Code Section 799.

Page 21 of 22

EXHIBIT A

SEC. 8-18.230 EFFECT OF STATE AND FEDERAL
REFERENCE/AUTHORIZATION.

Unless specifically provided otherwise, any reference to a state or federal statute in
this Article shall mean such statute as is may be amended from time to time, provided that such
reference to a statute herein shall not include any subsequent amendment thereto, repeal thereof, or
to any subsequent change of interpretation thereto by a state or federal agency or court of law with
die duty to interpret such law, to the extent that such amendment or change of interpretation would
require voter approval under California law, or to the extent that such change would result in a tax
decrease (as a result of excluding all or a part of a utility service, or charge therefor, from taxation).
Only to the extent voter approval would otherwise be required or a tax decrease would result, the
prior version of the statute (or interpretation) shall remain applicable; for any application or
situation that would not require voter approval or result in a decrease of a tax, the provisions of the
amended statute (or new interpretation) shall be applicable to the maximum possible extent.

To the extent that the City’s authorization to collect or impose any tax imposed under
this Article is expanded or limited as a result of changes in state or federal law, no amendment or
modification of this Article shall be required to conform the tax to those changes, and the tax shall
be imposed and collected to the full extent of the authorization up to the frill amount of the tax
imposed under this Article.

SEC. 8-18.240 INDEPENDENT AUDIT OF TAX COLLECTION. EXEMPTION.
REMITTANCE. AND EXPENDITURE.

The City shall annually verify that the taxes owed under this Article have been
properly applied, exempted, collected, and remitted in accordance with the Article, and property
expended according to applicable municipal law. The annual verification shall be performed by a
qualified independent third parly and the review shall employ reasonable, cost-effective steps to
assure compliance, including the use of sampling audits. The verification shall not be required of
tax remitters where the cost of the verification may exceed the tax revenues to be reviewed.

SEC. 8-18.250 REMEDIES CUMULATIVE.

All remedies and penalties prescribed by this Article or which are available under
any oilier provision of law or equity, including but not limited to the California False Claims Act
(Government Code Section 12650 et seq.) and the California Unfair Practices Act (Business and
Professions Code Section 17070 et seq.), are cumulative. The use of one or more remedies by the
City shall not bar the use of any other remedy for die purpose of enforcing the provisions of this
Article.

SEC. 8-18.260 TERMINATION OF UTILITY USER TAX.

The levy of taxes as provided in this Article shall expire on June 30,2019, unless re-
enacted by a separate ordinance of the City Council following a majority vote of the electorate. The
termination of the levy of taxes as provided herein shall not terminate the obligation to pay taxes
levied on services used prior to such date. Taxes levied prior to June 30,2019, shall remain a debt
payable to the City. All provisions of this Article, except those relating to the levy of taxes, shall
continue in frill force and effect after such date.

Page 22 of 22