Ballot question

The following question appeared on the ballot:[i]

Shall Chapter 6.13 be added to the Pacific Grove Municipal Code to
impose a five percent (5%) admission tax to enter or attend events or
facilities within the City of Pacific Grove, including but not limited to
attendance at an aquarium, sporting or athletic events, concerts, golf
courses, marathons, motion pictures, museums, or organized activities, in
accord with Resolution No. 16-045, which Chapter shall not sunset and
shall have an annual yield approximating $4 million?[2]

Impartial analysis

The following impartial analysis of the measure was prepared by the office of the Pacific

Grove City Attorney:

Measure P proposes to impose an admission tax on paid entry to facilities
and events in the City of Pacific Grove (City). This measure was placed on
the ballot by majority vote of the City Council.

The California State Controller reports eleven California municipalities
presently collect admission taxes. These include San Francisco, Santa
Cruz, Indian Wells, San Fernando, Fairfield, Avalon, Pasadena,

Inglewood, Pomona, Irwindale and Azusa.

The proposed Pacific Grove admission tax is five percent (5%) of the entry
price paid to attend any non-exempt facility or event within the City. This
tax would apply to events and venues such as the Pacific Grove Museum,
the Pacific Grove Golf Links, the Pacific Grove Triathlon, the Half
Marathon, the Monterey Bay Aquarium, Christmas at the Inns and other
events for which an entrance price is charged. If no charge is collected for
entry, an admission tax will not be collected.

The admission tax would be collected at the time any non-exempt entry
charge is paid. If admission privileges are included within a membership
fee, season ticket/pass, or subscription, the tax would be charged only for
entry of a person to a single event, multiplied by the number of persons for
which the membership, season ticket/pass or subscription allows.

Certain facilities or events are exempt from the proposed tax including
registration or participation in public or private school events; membership
at health or fitness facilities; and membership in social, fraternal, or clubs
where annual membership is the exclusive means to gain admission.

The tax is proposed to apply to all attendees who pay to enter, attend,
participate or view non-exempt events or facilities in the City, including
those run by non-profit entities or events associated with free expression
rights. The proposed tax will be paid by attendees, not by the sponsoring
organization. If the privilege of attending an event within the City also
includes the right to attend events or facilities outside of the City, the full

admission tax would be collected unless it can be shown the patron did
not exercise entry to a facility within the City.

Measure P proposes to enact a general tax; proceeds shall be placed in
the City’s General Fund and may be used for any municipal purpose. The
measure is not intended for regulation. City staff estimates potential
revenue from the admission tax to approximate $4.2 million per year. No
sunset date is included.

A majority of voters of the City casting ballots in favor of this measure is
required to add Chapter 6.13 to the Pacific Grove Municipal Code and
authorize the admission tax within the City. If approved, Measure P shall
take effect on February 1, 2017.

A “yes” vote on Measure P favors enactment of the admission tax. A “no”
vote on Measure P opposes enactment of the admission tax.[2]

Pacific Grove City Attorney[3]