Ballot question

The following question appeared on the ballot:[i]

To support academic excellence, prepare Pico Rivera students for college
and quality jobs, raise teacher salaries, ret ain quality teachers and staff,
provide every student access to high quality arts education, including
music and performing arts, and improve instruction in science, technology,
engineering, arts and math, shall El Rancho Unified School District
authorize an annual $99 per-parcel tax for 9 years, exempting senior
citizens and people with disabilities, requiring independent oversight and
all funds used locally to improve student learning?[2]

Impartial analysis

The following impartial analysis of the measure was prepared by the office of the Los

Angeles County Counsel:

Approval of Measure RR (“Measure”) would authorize the Governing
Board (“Board”) of the El Rancho Unified School District (“District”), which
placed the Measure on the ballot by Resolution No. 02-2016/2017, to levy
a special parcel tax (“Tax”) in the amount of $99 on each parcel of taxable
real property that receives a separate tax bill within the District,
commencing July 1, 2017, and continuing for nine (9) years from that
date.

Proceeds from the Tax shall be used only for the purposes specified in the
Measure, including, but not limited to, hiring music teachers for
elementary and middle school students; providing annual workshops with
community-based musicians for all middle and high school music
students; funding annual music field trips, competitions, and/or public
performances; purchasing and maintaining instruments and equipment;
investing in instruments and equipment to support the expansion of music
programming; providing continuing funding over the duration of the Tax to
support the hiring of teachers, purchasing of equipment, and funding of
programs from the first year of arts education; raising teacher and support
staff salaries to aid in recruiting and retaining well-qualified teachers and
support staff; and providing instruction in math, science, technology and
the arts. Tax proceeds may not be used for administrator salaries, benefits
or pensions.

Any parcels that are otherwise exempt from ad valorem taxes shall also
be exempt from the Tax in such year. Parcels that are contiguous and
used solely for owner-occupied, single-family residential purposes, and
held under the identical ownership may apply to the District to be treated
as a single parcel. In addition, upon application to the District, the Tax
shall not apply to a residential property owner: (a) at least 65 years or
older; or (b) receiving Supplemental Security Income disability benefits,
regardless of age; or (c) receiving Social Security Disability Insurance
benefits, regardless of age, and whose annual income is below a
maximum threshold.

The District shall annually retain an independent auditor to audit the
expenditure of parcel tax revenues. The District shall establish a Parcel
Tax Oversight Committee (“Committee”) to review the expenditure of
parcel tax revenues. An annual expenditure plan shall be developed by
the District in consultation with the Committee to make recommendations
for expenditures that are consistent with the Measure. Tax proceeds shall
be deposited in a separate, special account.

The Tax shall be collected by the County Treasurer and Tax Collector at
the same time and in the same manner as ad valorem property taxes, and
shall be subject to the same penalties applicable to ad valorem property
taxes. The Tax shall bear interest at the same rate as for unpaid ad
valorem property taxes until paid.

This Measure requires a two-thirds (2/3) vote for passage.[2]

Los Angeles County Counsels