MEASURE

P

BALLOT LABEL
IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS
COMPLETE TEXT OF THE ORDINANCE AND TEXT OF MEASURE P
ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE P

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE P - none offered

MEASURE P

SAN BENITO COUNTY COUNCIL OF GOVERNMENTS (“COG”)

Shall the voters authorize implementing the San Benito County Transportation
Safety and Investment Plan to:

•	Repair and maintain roads;

•	Improve safety and relieve congestion on Highway 25;

•	Improve safety and traffic flow on local roads;

•	Increase bicycle and pedestrian safety; and

•	Improve transit services for youth, senior, and people with disabilities

by enacting a half cent sales tax, raising approximately $8 million annually over
20 years, with annual audits by an independent oversight committee?

YES

NO

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE P

The Council of San Benito County Governments (“COG”) has placed Measure P on the
ballot, asking voters to approve a one-half of one percent (0.5%) transactions and use
tax within the County for 30 years for transportation improvements. The proposed tax
would add a one half of one cent to the price of an item that costs a dollar. A
transactions and use tax is levied on the same purchases as sales tax with some
exceptions. The proposed transaction and use tax would terminate after a period of 30
years.

Measure P is a "special tax," not a "general tax". Therefore, COG may only use the
funds for the purposes specified. The expenditure plan adopted by COG specifies that
the revenue shall be spent as follows:

•	50% would be used for Highway 25 Improvements,

•	20% would be used for specified local road improvements. These include, but
are not limited to, City of Hollister West Gateway Improvement Project; Interim
Fairview Road Improvements; City of Hollister Nash/Tres
Pinos/Sunnyslope/McCray Complete Streets Implementation; Realignment of
Anzar Road, Aromitas and Carr Road; State Route 156 & the Alameda/Monterey
Road Improvements; Regional transit connections and improved transit services;
and Safe Routes to School Improvements.

•	30% would be used for local street and road maintenance and rehabilitation.

This percentage will be further divided to local jurisdictions for local street and
roadway maintenance and rehabilitation based on the following formula:

County of San Benito (48%)

City of Hollister (48%)

City of San Juan Bautista (4%)

COG will commission an independent annual audit of revenue and expenditures and
prepare an annual report and financial statement. A seven (7) member “Expenditure
Plan Oversight Committee” shall be appointed. This committee shall consist of two
members recommended by the Board of Supervisors, 2 members recommended by the
City of Hollister, one member recommended by City of San Juan Bautista, 1 member
recommended by business community and one member representing organized labor.
A public meeting shall be held annually prior to selecting projects expending Measure P
revenues.

Currently, the sales and use tax rates are 7.5% (unincorporated area), 8.25% (City of
San Juan Bautista) and 8.5% (City of Hollister). If Measure P is approved, the total
sales and use tax rate will increase to 8% in unincorporated area of San Benito County,
8.75% in the City of San Juan Bautista and 9.0% in the City of Hollister.

A "Yes" vote is a vote to approve the additional half-cent tax for 30 years.

A "No" vote is a vote against the tax.

Measure P would be approved if it receives a YES vote by 2/3 of the voters voting on
the measure.

MATTHEW GRANGER, County Counsel
Dated: March 22, 2016 /s/BARBARA THOMPSON, Acting Assistant County Counsel

COMPLETE TEXT OF THE ORDINANCE AND TEXT OF MEASURE P

BEFORE THE COUNCIL OF SAN BENITO COUNTY GOVERNMENTS

AN ORDINANCE OF THE COUNCIL OF SAN
BENITO COUNTY GOVERNMENTS,
REGARDING THE TRANSPORTATION
EXPENDITURE PLAN AND TRANSACTIONS
AND USE TAX_____________________

) ORDINANCE NO. 2016-1

)

)

)

.)

The Council of San Benito County Governments ordains as follows:

SECTION 1.	TITLE:

This ordinance shall be known as the Council of San Benito County Governments
Transportation Expenditure Plan and Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance

SECTION 2.	SUMMARY:

This ordinance provides for the imposition of a retail transactions and use tax of one half
of one percent (0.5%), the authority to issue limited tax bonds, the administration of the

tax proceeds, and a transportation safety and investment expenditure plan.

SECTION 3.	DEFINITIONS:

A.	Authority means the Council of San Benito County Governments,
previously created and designated pursuant to Division 19 (commencing
with Section 180000) of the California Public Utilities Code, authorized to
impose a retail transactions and use tax ordinance, subject to voter
approval, in accordance with Chapter 5 (commencing with Section
180200) of Division 19 of the California Public Utilities Code, and with
Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the California
Revenue and Taxation Code.

B.	Board of Supervisors means the San Benito County Board of Supervisors.

C.	County means the County of San Benito, a political subdivision of the
State of California.

D.	State means the State of California.

E.	Measure P means the proposed ballot measure attached to this ordinance
and incorporated herein by reference as Exhibit A.

F.	Measure P Revenue means the revenue generated by the one half of one
percent (0.5%) increase in the retail transactions and use tax imposed as
collected pursuant to this ordinance.

G.	Retail Transactions and Use Tax is to be identified as specified in Part 1.6
(commencing with section 7251) of Division 2 of the California Revenue
and Taxation code.

H.	Operative Date means the first day of the first calendar quarter
commencing more than 110 days after the adoption of this ordinance, the
date of such adoption being as set forth below.

I.	Expenditure Plan means the Expenditure Plan attached to this ordinance
and incorporated herein by reference as Exhibit B.

SECTION 4.	PURPOSE:

This ordinance is adopted to achieve the following, among other purposes, and

directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish those

purposes:

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the
provisions of Division 19 (commencing with Section 180000) of the

California Public Utilities Code, and Part 1.6 (commencing with
Section 7251) of Division 2 of the California Revenue and Taxation Code,
which authorizes the Authority to adopt this tax ordinance which shall be
operative if two-thirds (2/3) of the electors voting on the measure vote to
approve the imposition of the tax at an election called for that purpose.

B.	To impose and collect a retail transactions and use tax and allocate
revenues derived from the tax toward transportation safety and investment
projects within the unincorporated County of San Benito and within the
incorporated cities of Hollister and San Juan Bautista, consistent with the
provisions and priorities of the Expenditure Plan.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates
provisions identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of
California insofar as those provisions are not inconsistent with the
requirements and limitations contained in Division 19 (commencing with
Section 180000) of the California Public Utilities Code, and Part 1.6
(commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the California Revenue
and Taxation Code.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax
and provides a measure therefor that can be administered and collected
by the State Board of Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as
practicable to, and requires the least possible deviation from, the existing
statutory and administrative procedures followed by the State Board of
Equalization in administering and collecting the California State Sales and
Use Taxes.

E.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be
administered in a manner that will be, to the greatest degree possible,
consistent with the provisions of Division 19 (commencing with
Section 180000) of the California Public Utilities Code, and Part 1.6
(commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the California Revenue
and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting the transactions and
use taxes, and at the same time, minimize the burden of record keeping
upon persons subject to taxation under the provisions of this ordinance.

SECTION 5.	CONTRACT	WITH STATE:

Prior to the operative date, the Authority shall contract with the State Board of
Equalization to perform all functions incident to the administration and operation of this
transactions and use tax ordinance; provided, that if the Authority shall not have
contracted with the State Board of Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall
nevertheless so contract and in such a case the operative date shall be the first day of
the first calendar quarter following the execution of such a contract.

TRANSACTIONS TAX RATE:

For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed
upon all retailers in the incorporated and unincorporated territory of the County at the
rate of one half of one percent (0.5%) of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale
of all tangible personal property sold at retail in said territory on and after the operative
date of this ordinance.

SECTION 7.	PLACE OF SALE:

For the purposes of this ordinance, all retail sales are consummated at the place of
business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is delivered by the
retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for delivery to
an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery
charges, when such charges are subject to the state sales and use tax, regardless of
the place to which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of
business in the State or has more than one place of business, the place or places at
which the retail sales are consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations
to be prescribed and adopted by the State Board of Equalization.

SECTION 8.	USE TAX RATE:

An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other consumption in the
County of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on and after the
operative date of this ordinance for storage, use or other consumption in said territory at
the rate of one half of one percent (0.5%) of the sales price of the property. The sales
price shall include delivery charges when such charges are subject to state sales or use
tax regardless of the place to which delivery is made.

SECTION 9.	ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW:

Except as otherwise provided in this ordinance and except insofar as they are
inconsistent with the provisions of Division 19 (commencing with Section 180000) of the
California Public Utilities Code and Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of
Division 2 of the California Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1
(commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the California Revenue and Taxation
Code are hereby adopted and made a part of this ordinance as though fully set forth
herein.

SECTION 10. LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF STATE LAW AND
COLLECTION OF USE TAXES:

In adopting the provisions of Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the
California Revenue and Taxation Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing
agency, the name of the Authority shall be substituted therefor. However,
the substitution shall not be made when:

1.	The word "State" is used as a part of the title of the State
Controller, State Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Board of
Equalization, State Treasury, or the Constitution of the State of
California;

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or
against this County or any agency, officer, or employee thereof
rather than by or against the State Board of Equalization, in
performing the functions incident to the administration or operation
of this ordinance.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sections
referring to the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where
the result of the substitution would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain
sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible
personal property which would not otherwise be exempt from
this tax while such sales, storage, use or other consumption
remain subject to tax by the State under the provisions of
Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the
California Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or
other consumption of tangible personal property which would
not be subject to tax by the State under the said provision of
that code.

4.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711,
6715, 6737, 6797 or 6828 of the California Revenue and Taxation
Code.

B.	The word "County" shall be substituted for the word "State" in the phrase
"retailer engaged in business in this State" in Section 6203 and in the
definition of that phrase in Section 6203 of the California Revenue and
Taxation Code.

PERMIT NOT REQUIRED:

If a seller's permit has been issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the California
Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional transactor's permit shall not be required by
this ordinance.

SECTION 12. EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS:

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the
use tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of
California or by any city, city and county, or county pursuant to the
Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the amount of
any state-administered transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions
tax the gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum
products, to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally
outside the County in which the sale is made and directly and
exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of
persons or property under the authority of the laws of this State, the
United States, or any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the County which is shipped to
a point outside the County, pursuant to the contract of sale, by
delivery to such point by the retailer or his agent, or by delivery by
the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at such point.
For the purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point outside the
County shall be satisfied:

a.	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles)
subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing
with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the California Vehicle
Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of
the California Public Utilities Code, and undocumented
vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with
Section 9840) of the California Vehicle Code by registration
to an out-of-County address and by a declaration under
penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that such
address is, in fact, his or her principal place of residence;
and

b.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a
place of business out-of-County and declaration under

penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, that the vehicle will
be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to
furnish the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered
into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of
such property, for any period of time for which the lessor is
obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by the lease
prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, the
sale or lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to
be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time
for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional
right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not
such right is exercised.

There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this ordinance, the

storage, use or other consumption in this County of tangible personal

property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a
transactions tax under any state-administered transactions and use
tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of
aircraft and used or consumed by such operators directly and
exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of
persons or property for hire or compensation under a certificate of
public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of
this State, the United States, or any foreign government. This
exemption is in addition to the exemptions provided in
Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the California Revenue and Taxation
Code.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed
price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date
of this ordinance.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the
tangible personal property arises under a lease which is a
continuing purchase of such property for any period of time for
which the lessee is obligated to lease the property for an amount
fixed by a lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section,
storage, use, or other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of
any right or power over, tangible personal property shall be deemed
not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of
time for which any party to the contract or lease has the
unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice,
whether or not such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in
business in the County shall not be required to collect use tax from
the purchaser of tangible personal property, unless the retailer
ships or delivers the property into the County or participates within
the County in making the sale of the property, including, but not
limited to, soliciting or receiving the order, either directly or
indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer in the County or
through any representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary,
or person in the County under the authority of the retailer.

7.	"A retailer engaged in business in the County" shall also include
any retailer of any of the following: vehicles subject to registration
pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of
Division 3 of the California Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in
compliance with Section 21411 of the California Public Utilities
Code, or undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5
(commencing with Section 9840) of the California Vehicle Code.
That retailer shall be required to collect use tax from any purchaser
who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an
address in the County.

D. Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit against that
tax any transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a
County imposing, or retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant to
Division 19 (commencing with Section 180000) of the California Public
Utilities Code and Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2
of the California Revenue and Taxation Code with respect to the sale to
the person of the property the storage, use or other consumption of which
is subject to the use tax.

SECTION 13. AMENDMENTS:

All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this ordinance to Part 1
(commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the California Revenue and Taxation
Code relating to sales and use taxes and which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6
(commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the California Revenue and Taxation
Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of

the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part of this ordinance,
provided however, that no such amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax
imposed by this ordinance. Other amendments to this ordinance shall require a two-
thirds (2/3) vote of the total membership of the Authority, plus the subsequent approval
of a two-thirds (2/3) majority of the electors voting on such change submitted for a vote
at a special election called for that purpose by the Board of Supervisors, at the request
of the Authority, before the amendments become effective.

SECTION 14.	ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN:

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any
suit, action or proceeding in any court against the State, the County, or the Authority, or
against any officer of the State, the County, or the Authority, to prevent or enjoin the
collection under this ordinance, or Division 19 (commencing with Section 180000) of the
California Public Utilities Code or Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2
of the California Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required
to be collected.

SECTION 15.	BONDING AUTHORITY:

Upon voter approval of the tax, the Authority shall have the power to sell or issue
limited tax bonds in the aggregate principle at any one time in order to carry out
the transportation projects described in the Expenditure Plan.

SECTION 16.	MAINTENANCE OF EFFORT:

The Authority, by the enactment of this ordinance, intends the additional funds
provided to local government agencies by Measure P to supplement other
existing funds, revenues and other resources being used for street and highway
purposes, including but not limited to federal and state funding, the collection of
traffic impact mitigation fees, other local impact fees, and dedications of property.
The government agencies shall maintain their existing commitment of local
transportation-related funds for transportation purposes pursuant to this
ordinance, and the Authority shall enforce this Section by appropriate actions.

SECTION 17.	CREATION OF SPECIAL FUND:

All Measure P Revenue, plus interest, will be deposited in a special fund for
Measure P projects. The fund authorized under Measure P will be administered
by the Authority pursuant to this ordinance and to the provisions of Division 19
(commencing with Section 180000) of the California Public Utilities Code, and
Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the California Revenue
and Taxation Code. Any interest generated by Measure P Revenue will be
treated as Measure P Revenue for the purpose of using the interest for Measure
P projects.

ADMINISTRATION OF PLANS:

The Authority shall impose and collect the tax, shall allocate revenues derived
from the tax, and shall administer the Expenditure Plan included in this
ordinance, consistent with the provisions and priorities of the Expenditure Plan,
and consistent with the Authority cited herein.

SECTION 19. ELECTION:

The Authority requests the Board of Supervisors to call an election for voter
approval of the attached measure (Exhibit A), which election shall be held on
June 7, 2016, and consolidated with other elections to be held on that same date.
The election shall be called and conducted in the same manner as provided by
law for the conduct of elections by a County. The sample ballot to be mailed to
the voters shall be the full proposition as set forth in this ordinance, and the voter
information handbook shall include the Expenditure Plan. Approval of the
attached measure, and imposition of the tax, shall require the vote of a two-thirds
(2/3) majority of the electors voting on the attached measure at the election
described in this section.

SECTION 20.	EFFECTIVE DATE:

This ordinance relates to the levying and collecting of the transactions and use taxes
and shall go into effect immediately, subject only to the Operative Date set forth in
Section 3(H) of this ordinance. The increase in the transactions and use tax, if so
approved, shall be imposed and collected for a period of thirty (30) years thereafter.

SECTION 21.	TERMINATION DATE:

The authority to levy the tax imposed by this ordinance shall expire thirty (30) years
from the Operative Date of this ordinance.

SECTION 22.	SEVERABILITY:

If any provision of this ordinance or the application thereof to any person or
circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the ordinance and the application of such
provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

SECTION 23.	CAPTIONS:

The titles and headings to the sections set forth in this ordinance are not part of this
ordinance and shall have no effect upon the construction or interpretation of any part
hereof.

PUBLICATION:

Prior to the effective date of this ordinance, the Clerk of the Council of San Benito
County Governments shall cause this ordinance to be published in a newspaper of
general circulation within the County of San Benito.

The foregoing Ordinance was passed and adopted by the Council of San Benito County
Governments, at an adjourned regular meeting of said Council held on the 26th day of
February, 2016, by the following vote:

AYES:	/	NOES:_____ /	ABSTAIN:_____ / ABSENT:______

By:___________________________

Tony Boch, Chair

ATTEST:	APPROVED	AS	TO	LEGAL	FORM:

Mary Gilbert, Executive Director	San	Benito	County	Counsel’s	Office

By:___________________________________ By:________________________________________

Shirley L. Murphy, Deputy County

Counsel

Date:____________________ Date:______________________________________

EXHIBIT A - MEASURE P

A ballot measure authorizing the Authority to impose a retail transactions and use tax
for implementing a transportation safety and investment plan shall be known as
Measure P. Measure P shall read as follows:

Shall the voters authorize implementing the San Benito County Transportation
Safety and Investment Plan to:

•	Repair and maintain roads;

•	Improve safety and relieve congestion on Highway 25;

•	Improve safety and traffic flow on local roads;

•	Increase bicycle and pedestrian safety; and

•	Improve transit services for youth, seniors, and people with disabilities

by enacting a half cent sales tax, raising approximately $8 million annually over
30 years, with annual audits by an independent oversight committee?

EXHIBIT B

COUNCIL OF SAN BENITO COUNTY GOVERMENTS
EXPENDITURE PLAN FOR MEASURE P

SAN BENITO COUNTY TRANSPORTATION SAFETY AND INVESTMENT

PLAN

GOALS & OBJECTIVES:

I.	IMPROVE AND MAINTAIN THE QUALITY OF LIFE IN SAN BENITO
COUNTY BY SUPPLEMENTING EXISTING FUNDS FOR
TRANSPORTATION WITH A NEW LOCAL FUNDING SOURCE.

a.	Generate new, locally controlled funding for high priority transportation
projects in San Benito County

b.	Enhance the ability of the Council of San Benito County Governments
(“Council of Governments”), the County of San Benito, the City of
Hollister and the City of San Juan Bautista to secure additional State
and Federal funding for transportation projects in San Benito County
by offering matching local funds.

c.	Supplement existing local fund sources to enhance the Council of
Governments’ and County’s ability to deliver high priority transportation
projects in San Benito County

II.	PROVIDE FOR EQUITY IN THE DISTRIBUTION OF MEASURE A
REVENUES.

a.	Return funds to the Unincorporated County, City of Hollister, and City
of San Juan Bautista based on an equitable formula distribution of
funds

b.	Adopt Improvement Plan proposals which address the unique needs of
each of these areas of the County.

c.	Provide for a reasonable balance between highway, maintenance,
local street and road improvements, bicycle and pedestrian facilities
and transit improvements for youth, seniors, students, and people with
disabilities.

III.	PROVIDE FOR LOCAL CONTROL OF THE IMPROVEMENT PLAN
PROGRAM

a.	Provide for cost-effective, local administration of the program through
the existing Council of San Benito County Governments, which
previously administered local Measure A funding.

b.	Delegate appropriate administrative responsibility to cities, the County,
and other local agencies for local programs.

IV.	PROVIDE FOR TAXPAYER SAFEGUARDS AND OVERSIGHT

a.	Ensure annual independent audits

b.	Establish a Citizen’s Oversight Committee

INTRODUCTION:

This TRANSPORTATION SAFETY AND INVESTMENT PLAN, which shall also
act as the Measure P Expenditure Plan, was prepared by the Council of San
Benito County Governments for the proposed one half of one percent (0.5%)
local transactions and use tax for transportation to be collected for the next 30
years if approved by the voters on June 7, 2016. This is proposed by the Council
of Governments as a means to fill the funding shortfall to implement needed
highway, local street and road maintenance, local road improvements, bicycle
and pedestrian improvements and transit improvements.

EXPENDITURE PLAN FOR MEASURE P PROJECTS:

The Council of Governments shall use Measure P Revenues for purposes of
funding the following projects:

1.	Highway 25 Improvements (50% or $120 Million)

The Council of Governments shall allocate 50% of Measure P Revenues to
fund improvements to safety and traffic flow on State Route 25 between San
Felipe Road and Santa Clara County. These improvements may be
accomplished in several phases and may include intersection improvements,
construction of new travel lanes, and other improvements that will be further
identified by the Council of Governments in partnership with the State.

2.	Local Road Improvements (20% or $48 Million)

The Council of Governments shall allocate 20% of Measure P Revenues to
certain local road projects in San Benito County, the City of Hollister and the
City of San Juan Bautista. These projects may include but are not limited to:

•	City of Hollister West Gateway Improvement Project

•	Interim Fairview Road improvements, prior to a full widening project, to
address concerns about speeding and traffic in the area

•	City of Hollister Nash/Tres Pinos/Sunnyslope/McCray Street Complete
Streets Implementation

•	Realignment of Anzar Road, Aromitas & Carr Road

•	State Route 156 & the Alameda/Monterey Road Improvements

•	Regional transit connections and improved transit services for youth,
seniors, and the disabled

•	Safe Routes to School Improvements to roadways near schools to
improve safety for bicyclists and pedestrians and improve traffic flow
for motorists

•	Other projects identified by the Council of Governments to improve
safety and traffic flow on local roads which meet the objectives
identified in this Plan.

3.	Local Street and Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation (30% or $72 Million)

The Council of Governments shall allocate 30% of Measure P Revenues to
local street and roadway maintenance and rehabilitation. The revenues shall
be allocated to local jurisdictions based on the following formula:

•	County of San Benito: 48%

•	City of Hollister: 48%

•	City of San Juan Bautista: 4%

ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS AND TAXPAYER SAFEGUARDS:

1.	Funds will be administered by the Council of San Benito County Governments
(Council of Governments)

The revenue raised by Measure P for the purposes described in this Plan will
be administered by the Council of Governments and an account shall be
created to hold all funds collected pursuant to the Measure. The Council of
San Benito County Governments is a Joint Powers Authority created in 1973
for the purpose of forming consensus on regional issues facing San Benito
County.

In order to ensure accountability, transparency and public oversight of all
funds collected and allocated under this Measure and to comply with state
law, all of the following shall apply:

a.	The Council of Governments will commission an independent annual
audit of its revenue and expenditures and will also prepare a publicly
available annual report on past and upcoming activities and publish an
annual financial statement.

b.	Prior to expenditure of any funds collected pursuant to the Measure,
the Council of Governments Board shall convene an Expenditure Plan
Oversight Committee to provide oversight. The Committee will consist
of seven members. Two members recommended by the County Board
of Supervisors, two members recommended by the City of Hollister
and one recommended by the City of San Juan Bautista. One at large
director will be recommended by the business community and one will
represent organized labor. The Expenditure Plan Oversight Committee
will fairly represent the geographical, social, cultural, and economic
diversity of the Council of Governments’ jurisdiction to ensure
maximum benefit for transportation users.

c.	Members of the Expenditure Plan Oversight Committee shall be
appointed by the Council of Governments Board of Directors and shall
be residents within the Council of Governments’ jurisdiction who are

neither elected officials of any government, nor employees from any
agency or organization that either oversees or benefits from the
proceeds of the sales tax.

d.	Expenditure Plan Oversight Committee meetings will be announced in
advance and will be open to the public. The Expenditure Plan
Oversight Committee shall meet at least once but no more than four
times per year.

The responsibilities of this Committee include:

•	Advising the Council of Governments Board.

• Making	recommendations regarding annual expenditure
priorities.

•	Reviewing Plan expenditures on an annual basis to ensure they
conform to the Plan.

•	Reviewing the annual audit and report prepared by an
independent auditor, describing how funds were spent.

• Produce a publicly available Annual Report of Oversight
Activities.

e.	The Oversight Committee members will serve staggered two year
terms and can be reappointed.

f.	All actions, including decisions about selecting projects for funding, will
be made by the Council of Governments Board in public meetings,
subject to the Brown Act and closed session requirements, with proper
advanced notice and with meeting materials available in advance to
the public.

2.	Additional Allocation Criteria and Community Benefits

The Council of Governments shall ensure that the revenue generated by
Measure P is spent in the most efficient and effective manner possible,
consistent with serving the public interest and in accordance with existing law
and this Plan.

a. The Council of Governments shall give priority to projects within its
jurisdiction that meet multiple objectives of the Council of Governments
Expenditure Plan document and including one or more of the following
objectives :

•	Provide for geographic distribution of projects across the
Council of Governments’ jurisdiction.

•	Increase impact by leveraging state and federal resources as
well as public/private partnerships.

•	Benefit the economy and sustainability of the region by investing
in infrastructure and local quality of life.

b. The Council of Governments Governing Board shall conduct one or
more public meetings annually to gain public input on selection of
project grants to expend revenues generated by the Measure.

c.	The Council of Governments may accumulate revenue over multiple
years so that sufficient funding is available for larger and long-term
projects. All interest income shall be used for the purposes identified in
this Plan. The Council of Governments can bond against these funds
as the laws allow.

d.	Costs of performing or contracting for project-related work shall be paid
from the revenues of the measure allocated to the appropriate purpose
and project.

e.	An annual independent audit shall be conducted to assure that the
revenues expended by the Council of Governments under this section
are necessary and reasonable in carrying out its responsibilities under
this Expenditure Plan/Ordinance.

f.	Sales tax proceeds are intended to augment annual support for the
Council of Governments and do not substitute for individual city or
County maintenance obligations. Monies from this program may not go
to a city's or the County's "General Fund".

g.	Revenues provided from the sales tax shall not be used to replace
private developer or foundation funding which has been or will be
committed for any project.

h.	Examples of similar projects eligible for funding under this Measure
may be found at www.sanbenitocoq.org

3.	CEQA Compliance

The approval of this Expenditure Plan does not commit the Council of
Governments to funding or approving any specific Project or activity listed
herein. Prior to approving or authorizing funding for any specific project or
activity identified in this Expenditure Plan, the Council of Governments shall
comply with all applicable provisions of the California Environmental Quality
Act (CEQA).

4.	Amendments

Expenditure Plan Amendments. The Council of Governments may annually
review and propose amendments to the Expenditure Plan to provide for the
use of additional Federal, State and local funds, to account for unexpected

revenues, or to take into consideration unforeseen circumstances.

The Expenditure Plan for Measure P funds may only be amended, if required,
by the following process set forth in Section 180207 of the Public Utilities
Code: (1) Initiation of amendments by the Council of Governments reciting
findings of necessity; (2) Provision of notice and a copy of the amendments
provided to the Board of Supervisors and the City Councils of the Cities of
Hollister and San Juan Bautista; (3) The proposed amendments shall become
effective 45 days after notice is given.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE P

Vote Yes on Measure P for repaired roads, improved safety and a better transportation
network for San Benito County!

We are fortunate to enjoy a special quality of life here. Unfortunately, many of San
Benito County’s roads are in terrible shape. Without adequate funding for needed
repairs, they get worse and worse. Each year we wait, road repairs and improvements
become more expensive. Measure P will allow each city and the county to fill potholes
and repair local streets and roads.

San Benito County needs safer roads and relief from traffic congestion. Measure P will
improve safety and reduce congestion on Highway 25 and other major roads like
Fairview Road, Union Road and the West Gateway area of San Juan Road.

Measure P provides San Benito County a guaranteed source of locally controlled
funding to repair and maintain our roads and make our roads safer. The state or federal
government cannot take this revenue. Measure P also helps San Benito County qualify
for state and federal matching funds, which otherwise will be lost to other areas.

This measure will make improvements to sidewalks and bike lanes, helping children and
families get to school and other destinations safely.

The measure will protect and enhance public transit for the people who rely on it the
most, including the elderly, people with disabilities and youth.

Measure P has strong taxpayer safeguards, including annual, independent financial
audits and a strong citizens' oversight committee. Under Measure P, our elected leaders
will be held accountable to spend funds as promised.

Measure P repairs our roads and helps contribute to a better quality of life in San Benito
County. New road connections will be designed to improve traffic flow and safety. Join
neighbors and community leaders and support Measure P.

It’s time to repair our roads. Vote Yes on Measure P!

/s/IGNACIO VELAZQUEZ, Mayor City of Hollister

/s/BOB TIFFANY, President San Benito County Business Council

/s/KAY FILICE, Filice Farms

/s/PAULINE VALDIVIA, Executive Director JDA - Senior Programs
/sA/ALERIE J. EGLAND, Bicycle/Pedestrian, Parks and Recreation Advocate

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST SUBMITTED