VOTER INFORMATION PAMPHLET

076

The following pages contain voter information applicable to your ballot which
may include any/all of the following items:

>	CANDIDATES’ STATEMENTS

>	BALLOT MEASURES

>	ANALYSES

>	ARGUMENTS, FOR & AGAINST

This pamphlet section may not contain a statement for each candidate. A complete list of candidates appears on the
Ballot/Sample Ballot. Each candidate’s statement in this pamphlet is volunteered by the candidate and is printed at the
expense of the candidate unless otherwise determined by the governing body. Each candidate’s statement is printed in
uniform format exactly as submitted by the candidate.

ARGUMENTS IN SUPPORT OF OR IN OPPOSITION TO THE
PROPOSED LAW ARE OPINIONS OF THE AUTHORS

Prop. 34 - Expenditure Limitations: State Legislative Candidates

Proposition 34 was passed by voters in November 2000. The law requires county election officials to provide
the names of those State Legislative candidates who have voluntarily agreed to expenditure limits. Candidates
who agree to the expenditure limits may submit and pay for a Candidate’s Statement of Qualification to be
printed in this pamphlet. The following State Legislative candidates appearing on ballots in El Dorado County
have accepted the voluntary expenditure limitations pursuant to Proposition 34.

1st State Senate	5th State Assembly	6th State Assembly
Rob Rowen, Democratic	Robert Carabas, Democratic	Brian Caples, Democratic
Ted Gaines, Republican	Frank Bigelow, Republican	Kevin Kiley, Republican

Party Endorsement

ELECTION CODE 13302. (b) In connection with an election at which a candidate for a voter-nominated office will appear on the ballot, a qualified political
party may submit to the county elections official a list of all candidates for voter-nominated office who will appear on a ballot in the county in question, and
who have been endorsed by the party by whatever lawful mechanism the party adopts for endorsing candidates for voter-nominated office. If a political
party timely submits a list to the county elections official pursuant to this subdivision, the county elections official shall print the names of the candidates for
voter-nominated office who were endorsed by that political party in the voter information portion of the sample ballot. The party chairperson shall provide a
written copy of the list of candidates endorsed by the party not later than 83 days prior to the election at which the candidate for a voter-nominated office
will appear on the ballot. (Amended by Stats. 2012, Ch. 3, Sec. 43. Effective February 10, 2012.)

The following is a list of candidates appearing on the ballot in El Dorado County that have been endorsed,
pursuant to EC 13302(b), by the listed political parties. All questions about this list should be directed to the party
in question.

Party	US Senate	4th Congress	1st Senate	5th Assembly	6th Assembly
American Independent	None	Tom McClintock	Ted Gaines	Frank Bigelow	Kevin P Kiley
Democratic	Kamala D Harris	Robert W Derlet	Rob Rowen	Robert Carabas	Brian Caples
Peace and Freedom	None	None	None	None	None
Republican	None	Tom McClintock	Ted Gaines	Frank Bigelow	Kevin P Kiley

The following is a list of party abbreviations used on your ballot.			
DEM - Democratic	REP - Republican	Al - American Independent	GRN - Green
LIB-Libertarian	PF - Peace and Freedom	REP, Al - Republican, American Independent (for Trump/Pence nomination only)	

VPI-076

Who is on the ballot for this election?

In the November General Election, all voters receive the same ballot, no matter what political party you are
registered with (or if you have no party preference). The address where you are registered to vote
determines which contests are on your ballot.

The top two-the ones with the most votes in the Primary Election-are on your ballot
for this election.

In the June Primary Election, all Californians were able to vote to decide which candidates for state and local
offices moved on to the November General Election.

Offices that are part of the Top 2 Primary

The following offices, called voter-nominated offices, are part of the Top 2 Primary:

•	U.S. Senator

•	U.S. Representative

•	State Senator

•	State Assembly Member

There is no write-in for these offices.

Both candidates on the ballot may have the same party preference. A candidate may be nominated by
more than one party. The candidate’s party preference (or “None”) is listed under their name. For
example:

JOHN SMITH
Party Preference: DEM

JANE DOE

Party Preference: REP

CHRIS JONES
Party Preference: NONE

County, city, school and

Candidates for the following nonpartisan offices were chosen in the June Primary Election:

•	County Supervisor

If a candidate for these local offices received at least 50% plus 1 vote in the Primary, they were elected
and are not on the General Election ballot.

OR

If no candidate won, the two candidates with the most votes are on the ballot.

•	Also on the November ballot are candidates running for school and special districts, as well as city
offices.

You can write-in a candidate for these offices.

Candidates for nonpartisan local offices do not have a party preference listed on the ballot.

For more information, you can call the Elections Department at (530) 621-7480.

The following party abbreviations have been used on your ballot.		
DEM - Democratic	REP - Republican	Al - American Independent
GRN - Green	LIB - Libertarian	PF - Peace and Freedom
REP, Al - Republican, American Independent (for Trump/Pence nomination only)		

special district offices

Are You Having Difficulty Voting Because of a Disability? CALL: 1-888-569-7955

Disability Rights California will operate a statewide hotline from 7:00 AM to 8:00PM on Election Day to help
voters with disabilities have a successful voting experience.

VIP-02

STATEMENT OF CANDIDATE FOR UNITED STATES REPRESENTATIVE 4TH DISTRICT  ROBERT W DERLET  Occupation: Physician, Professor, Author  Education and Qualifications: Listening to the people in this district motivated me to run for Congress. Too many families, young people, and retired workers experience pain and frustration created by the growing costs of everyday living, from housing costs to groceries. Increased healthcare costs top the list, with families paying outrageous costs for insurance, deductibles, non-covered services, and prescription drugs. I’ll fight to lower healthcare costs for everyone and also offer Medicare beginning at age 55.  I’ll vote to increase consumer protection to counter deceptive Wall Street practices and keep Social Security and Medicare away from Wall Street privatization.  I’ll fight to keep good jobs in the USA, increase wages and benefits, support legislation to reduce the cost of education, and help small businesses succeed.  Our High Sierra forests face new wildfire threats from drought and warming temperatures. I’ll work to increase funding to remove dead trees and brush, protect our watershed, ensure clean air and water, and also support measures to tackle global climate change.  I’ve worked hard all my life, beginning at age 8 delivering newspapers, then labored in clerical, factory, shipping, ranching, and construction jobs. After becoming a physician, 1 served 18 years as Professor and Chief of the Emergency Department, UC Davis Medical Center, where 1 taught medical students and supervised the care of nearly 1 million ER patients. I’ve hiked thousands of miles in our district’s wilderness watershed while conducting research on water bacteria and quality in the High Sierra.  Please visit www.derletforcongress.com.	STATEMENT OF CANDIDATE FOR UNITED STATES REPRESENTATIVE 4TH DISTRICT  TOM McCLINTOCK  Occupation: United States Representative  Education and Qualifications: America has enjoyed its greatest prosperity and happiness when it has known its greatest freedom. Our Founders created a society where we were free to make our own choices, enjoy the fruit of our own labors, take responsibility for our own decisions and lead our own lives with a minimum of governmental interference and intrusion. Government protected our fundamental rights and left us otherwise alone to live our own lives as we saw fit. Today, a very different vision competes for our future: an all-powerful government that commands our economic decisions, micro-manages our daily lives, and consumes more and more of our earnings. In the last eight years, it has disrupted our healthcare system, shrunk our family incomes, threatened our constitutional rights, doubled our national debt, overwhelmed us with illegal immigration and placed our children in danger of becoming the first American generation to be less well off than their parents.  The election of 2016 will decide whether America becomes another failed socialist state or whether this generation of Americans revives and restores the founding American principles of individual liberty, constitutionally limited government and personal responsibility that produced the happiest, freest and most prosperous society in human history.  You sent me to Washington to fight to restore the freedom that made America great, and 1 am doing everything in my power to do so.  1 am asking for your support to continue this fight. You can read more about my proposals at TomMcClintock.com.
STATEMENT OF CANDIDATE FOR STATE ASSEMBLY 6TH DISTRICT  BRIAN CAPLES  Occupation: Non-Governmental Organization Director Education and Qualifications: Experienced, Capable, Fiscally Conservative: Brian Caples knows how to reach across party lines to find solutions to California’s problems. After a tough battle with cancer, Brian Caples left his successful 20 year career in business to serve the public. He founded Fix CA Water, a bipartisan organization of experts to find solutions that provide more water for our farmers.  At a time when our police departments are underfunded, fire stations are closing, and nurses are stretched too thin; it’s no surprise that Brian Caples has their support. Brian Caples is uncompromising in his dedication to public safety. What’s more, as the candidate with decades of business experience, he’ll help businesses create jobs by reducing regulations and permit requirements. We need someone who understands the challenges facing businesses to bring jobs back to California.  Using his technology background, Brian Caples will streamline government processes to be more efficient. He will revolutionize the legislative process with innovative solutions like an online portal to “Suggest a Bill” to your representative, and putting DMV services online. Raised by a single mother, Brian knows the importance of living within your means and spending time with family. Traffic is keeping us from our loved ones. Brian Caples will be fighting for funding to fix congestion on 80, 50, and 65. Brian Caples knows that keeping a balanced budget requires accurate accounting and ongoing audits to ensure taxpayer money is used wisely, efficiently, and getting results. A vote for Brian Caples will bring responsible government back to California. Learn more at www.briancaples.com	STATEMENT OF CANDIDATE FOR STATE ASSEMBLY 6TH DISTRICT  KEVIN KILEY  Occupation: Deputy Attorney General/Criminal Prosecutor Education and Qualifications: I’m not a career politician. But as a Deputy Attorney General, 1 could not stand by and watch our laws weakened and our communities endangered. 1 will oppose the extreme policies of the legislature that have reduced sentences of some of California’s most violent felons.  That is why 1 decided to put on hold my career as a Criminal Prosecutor and run for the Assembly. As your representative, 1 will work hard for you and your family every day that 1 serve.  As your representative 1 will: Protect Prop. 13: Oppose New Taxes: be a Strong Voice for Job Creation and work to ensure every child has access to a quality education.  I’ve earned the support of the Howard Jarvis Taxpayers Association, the California Small Business Association and some of California’s most prominent education leaders.  My experience includes: Graduate of Harvard and Yale universities: Inner-City Public School Teacher: Business Legal Advocate: Deputy Attorney General and Criminal Prosecutor. 1 was raised in our district and attended its schools.  1 would be honored to receive your vote and pledge to represent you with integrity. Please visit my website, www.KileyforAssembly.com, or call me directly at 916-745-6284

STATEMENT OF CANDIDATE FOR
LOS RIOS COMMUNITY COLLEGE DISTRICT
TRUSTEE AREA 3

MARC ALLAMAN

Occupation: Retired Teacher

Education and Qualifications: El Dorado County deserves the best
representative as their choice for the Los Rios Community College
Board of Trustees. El Dorado County deserves to have a trustee that
has many years of experience working in education. El Dorado
County deserves to have a trustee that has years of experience
working collaboratively to develop multi-million dollar budgets in
education. El Dorado County deserves a trustee that has years of
successful experience working with teacher labor relations and
experience necessary to work effectively with all manner of
stakeholders.

If you share these values, please consider me as your candidate of
choice for Los Rios Community College Board Trustee. I believe in
giving back to our community. I self-finance my campaign. I take no
money from contributors.

I have worked in educational instruction for 33 years in California. I
have successfully served as a local district’s association president as
the lead labor representative and have decades of experience
organizing groups of teachers in management and curriculum
development. I have years of experience of volunteering and currently
serve as a Commissioner for a local city and am also president of a
large local home-owners association and coached youth soccer for 10
years.

STATEMENT OF CANDIDATE FOR
LOS RIOS COMMUNITY COLLEGE DISTRICT
TRUSTEE AREA 3

JOHN R KNIGHT	AGE:	68

Occupation: Los Rios Trustee/Small Business owner
Education and Qualifications: The most important part to remember
about being on the Los Rios Community College District Board is you
and your family. The hard working students who attend our
community colleges deserve all the support and encouragement
possible. Their job is not easy. My job is to make sure necessary
support is there for our students when they need it.

As your trustee, we’ve made progress such opening the new gym
facility at Folsom Lake College and a new student service building at
Sacramento City College. We expanded veterans services and
expanded student services at the El Dorado Center. We opened a
new Rancho Cordova Center. Light rail was extended to Cosumnes
College through partnership with the transit district.

Our district continues to expand educational opportunities while
maintaining a strong financial base. But there is more to be done. We
must ensure that we are reaching all students who desire to improve
their job skills and further their education.

I will continue to support partnerships with the K-12 school systems
and work with students, faculty, administration and the community. It
is my job assure that necessary support for our students. They
deserve no less.

09-202

STATEMENT OF CANDIDATE FOR EL DORADO UNION HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT GOVERNING BOARD MEMBER  DAVID B BICKNELL  Occupation: Local Business Owner  Education and Qualifications: As an involved parent 1 have attended the EDUHSD board meetings for the past several years. 1 worked diligently to ensure the district made necessary corrections to the boundary lines, allowing middle school students to attend high school with their classmates. Beginning in 2017, 1 will have children attend high school within the district until 2023 and will continue working to ensure our students are presented with the best possible learning opportunities.  The role of the board is to provide a high quality education to every student, by effectively managing the staff, teachers, district personnel, facilities and finances while maintaining the trust of the community though proper leadership. 1 have served on various boards, including those in the private sector and non-profit organizations.  1 have managed large numbers of people throughout my business career and have always taken the approach of a servant leader. As a successful business leader, 1 have significant experience in managing personnel, budgeting, the need for compassion and the challenge of making the toughest decisions that can have dramatic impacts across many people.  As a fiscal conservative, your tax dollars will be wisely invested in providing the best possible future for our students of the El Dorado Union High School District.	STATEMENT OF CANDIDATE FOR EL DORADO UNION HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT GOVERNING BOARD MEMBER  DAVID J DEL RIO AGE: 55  Occupation: Executive Director EDCA Lifeskills / Parent Education and Qualifications: I’m excited to run for the High School Board again to focus on District resources in regards to programs and services that impact our students. One example of change is the adjusted boundaries that allow students to attend the high school in their neighborhood. With four years of experience and serving as this year’s president, 1 feel I’m qualified and prepared to address student needs within the District.  I’ve held multiple Board Member positions over the years that include SARB, Kiwanis of Placerville, Big Brothers/Big Sisters, M.O.R.E., Food Bank of El Dorado, and more.  1 began my career with El Dorado County Probation as Counselor/Supervisor of teens. Currently I’m the Executive Director of EDCA Lifeskills, which I’ve managed for the past 19 years. My adult work life has been spent meeting the needs of at-risk children and adults to provide them with a new direction away from crime, drugs, and hopelessness.  I’m a 1979 graduate of Ponderosa High School and am proud to serve in the district 1 graduated. 1 have great confidence in the staff, teachers, students and parents of this district and strive to be fair and make good choices for all. My wife, Chris, and 1 have three children that have graduated from our exceptional high schools.
STATEMENT OF CANDIDATE FOR EL DORADO UNION HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT GOVERNING BOARD MEMBER  DELOY LINK  Occupation: Behavioral Therapist/Small Business Owner Education and Qualifications: 1 am A Leader Who Listens.  As a Trustee 1 will be a forward thinker who provides stable leadership.  Our children deserve a public education which reaches beyond standards.  1 am dedicated to creating a district of national prominence which fully prepares students to participate in a global and local economy.  As a graduate of Ponderosa High School, Cal Poly SLO, and Cal State East Bay, my master’s degree in Counseling Psychology prepared me to become a Behavioral Therapist.  For 22 years 1 have advocated and obtained resources for students who have learning differences and special needs.  In supporting gifted students and over performers, 1 will insight our District to create a STEAM program and provide summer enrichment opportunities for all students.  We must also create a safe and positive learning environment at every school in our district - large and small.  All of this can be done while maintaining strong fiscal controls over district budgets and spending, this includes responsible appropriation of Mello Roos funds.  Together we can give our kids the district they deserve. A vote for Deloy Link is a vote for a Superior Education for All Types of Learners. Visit www.ElectDeloyLink.com	STATEMENT OF CANDIDATE FOR EL DORADO UNION HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT GOVERNING BOARD MEMBER  LORI M VEERKAMP  Occupation: Parent/grandparent/School Board member Education and Qualifications: 1 was first elected to the EDHSD board in 2004. I’m currently the only female board member; 1 bring the woman/mother’s perspective to many decisions. 1 am proud of the accomplishments our district has achieved in the past twelve years. Our student academic achievements continue to surpass most schools within the region.  During the most recent national economic difficulties, our school district was able to retain our highly qualified teaching staff and keep intact our Career Technology/Regional Occupational Programs.  We have maintained a balanced budget with a reserve for financial stability even during one of the worst economic downturns this nation has ever experienced.  Our communities are still reaping the benefits from the Measure Q bond that increased the educational opportunities for all students, significantly enhanced classroom technology, greatly improved our athletic facilities and continues to be a source of community pride throughout the district.  If re-elected, 1 will continue maintaining an environment that attracts highly qualified staff and utilize taxpayer dollars for the benefit of all. 1 would be honored for your support, so 1 can continue working hard for the students and parents of our county. Thank you.

STATEMENT OF CANDIDATE FOR EL DORADO HILLS COUNTY WATER/FIRE DIRECTOR  JOHN GIRAUDO  Occupation: Retired Firefighter/Paramedic  Education and Qualifications: Nothing is more important than the safety of our community.  As a Firefighter and Paramedic for 30 years, I’ve seen first-hand how an efficiently run Fire Department can save lives.  1 will bring this unique experience and perspective to the board of El Dorado Hills County Water/Fire Protection District.  As a longtime resident of El Dorado Hills, 1 know our Fire Department leadership has done a great job serving our community.  With some leaders moving on, 1 plan to continue this positive momentum.  I’m proud to have endorsement of the El Dorado Hills Professional Firefighter’s Association- the men and women who put their lives on the line for our community every day.  As our community grows, we must ensure that emergency response times remain as low as possible.  Delivering this high level of service to our community must be done while maintaining a fiscally sound budget that protects local taxpayers. This takes strong knowledge of the issues and decades of experience- that’s what 1 bring to the table.  So 1 ask for your support in keeping our Fire Department on a strong, positive path.  Together, we can make sure our community remains a safe, wonderful place to live and raise our families.	STATEMENT OF CANDIDATE FOR EL DORADO HILLS COUNTY WATER/FIRE DIRECTOR  CHARLES JIM HARTLEY  Occupation: Retired Assistant Fire Chief  Education and Qualifications: As a thirty-seven year resident of El Dorado Hills, Retired Assistant Fire Chief and Director El Dorado Hills County Water/Fire District, 1 bring a unique perspective to the board. As a resident, 1 have witnessed our community grow from a population of four thousand to our current forty-five thousand. During this period our fire department has moved from a volunteer organization to a fire department that utilizes the services of professional personnel, volunteer and career.  During my tenure the department and community has built four new fire stations, helped create a senior center from a retired fire station, acquired property for the new training center and established a full time ambulance in El Dorado Hills. While these are impressive community assets, the fact that we have accomplished this without debt or raising taxes, is a model for other organizations.  As we recently celebrated the 50th Anniversary of the El Dorado Hills Fire Department, it is critical to maintain our strong fiscal position through sound budgeting and oversight, into the next 50 years.  While these are challenging times, 1 will continue to work hard on behalf of my community and the El Dorado Hills County Water District (Fire Department).  1 ask for your vote.  Charles Jim Hartley
STATEMENT OF CANDIDATE FOR EL DORADO HILLS COUNTY WATER/FIRE DIRECTOR  RON “MIK” MIKULACO AGE: 48  Occupation: El Dorado County Supervisor  Education and Qualifications: My experience as the El Dorado Hills representative on the County Board of Supervisors and my community involvement will help El Dorado Hills Fire Department address the challenges the district faces. 1 will promote public safety through a commitment to prevention, preparedness, and quick response, to protect the lives and property of the people of El Dorado Hills.  My highest priority is to save lives by providing outstanding emergency medical services. 1 will collaborate with our countywide emergency response services to ensure that we are providing the citizens of El Dorado Hills with the highest quality emergency medical services.  1 want to strengthen our emergency response services through technological improvements and by keeping them community focused. My decision to run was largely inspired by residents of the district that want proactive and transparent leadership.	STATEMENT OF CANDIDATE FOR EL DORADO HILLS COUNTY WATER/FIRE DIRECTOR  DALLAS SPRINGS  Occupation: Medical Equipment Representative Education and Qualifications: The El Dorado Hills Fire Department is one of the best Fire Districts in the State. 1 want to be sure the Fire Board makes the best possible decisions to guarantee financial stability for years to come.  My wife and 1 have had the privilege of living in this community for over 20 years and we are proud parents of two. Having served in the medical community for over 25 years, 1 understand the need for quality emergency services in El Dorado Hills and 1 will be committed to funding fire and emergency services for future generations.  Rest assured, the ability of the EDHFD to meet the emergency response needs of our 43,000 plus population is of utmost concern to me. 1 ask for your vote to allow me to serve and keep EDHFD the best in resources, personnel and operational excellence within given fiscal constraints.  Sincerely,  Dallas Springs

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE N
Resolution No. 2016-02

WHEREAS, the Marble Mountain Community Services District (CSD) is a political subdivision of the State of California and a community
services district formed and operating pursuant to the provisions of Government Code section §61000 et seq. (the “District”);; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Government Code section §61121 and 50075 et seq. the District is authorized to levy a special tax on all or a
portion of the parcels of real property within the jurisdictional boundaries of the district upon a two-thirds vote of those registered voters subject
to the proposed tax; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Directors has proposed to levy a special tax on all parcels of real property located within the District that are not
included in Road Improvement Zone “1”, which area of land is otherwise commonly known as the “Upper Road”, for the purposes of funding
maintenance and improvements of roadways within that area of the District lying outside of Road Improvement Zone “1” that would be subject
to such tax.

WHEREAS, the Board of Directors conducted a public hearing on the issue of whether to place such a measure on the ballot on
November8, 2016; and

NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY RESOLVED by the Board of Directors of the Marble Mountain CSD to request the Elections
Department of El Dorado County to conduct a mail ballot election on November 8, 2016 and submit a mail ballot to each registered voter
whose residence address is located within the jurisdictional boundaries of the District but outside the area comprising Road Improvement
Zone “1”, which ballot shall contain the following measure:

“Shall the Board of Directors of the Marble Mountain Community Services District be authorized to annually assess each parcel of real property
located within the District which is not included within the boundaries of Road Improvement Zone “1” a special tax in an amount up to, but not
exceeding, the amount of $400 per parcel to be expended for the maintenance and improvement of roadways located in those areas of the
District lying outside of Road Improvement Zone “1”?

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE N

This measure, if approved by 2/3 of the voters voting on the measure, would authorize an increase in a special tax on all parcels of real
property located within the Marble Mountain Community Services District (“District”) “that are not included in Road Improvement Zone T which
area of land is otherwise commonly known as the ‘Upper Road’ for the purposes of funding maintenance and improvements of roadways.”

This special tax would be in the amount “up to, but not exceeding, the amount of $400 per parcel” for the maintenance and improvement of
roadways located in those areas of the District lying outside of Road Improvement Zone T. This special tax would replace an existing special
tax of $100 currently imposed on parcels within the District that are the subject of this measure, as described above.

The special tax may be listed as a separate item on the county property tax bill for each affected parcel of land, and will be collected in the
same way as the general property tax. All laws applicable to the levy, collection, and enforcement of county property taxes, including the
provisions for penalties and the procedures for sale of the property in case of delinquency, may also apply to the special tax.

State law requires the proceeds from the special tax be applied only to the identified purposes, and that an annual report be made indicating
the amount of funds collected and expended and the status of any project required or authorized to be funded by the proceeds.

This measure was placed on the ballot by Resolution No. 2016-02 of the Board of Directors of the District.

A “YES” vote is a vote to authorize the special tax of $400 provided in the measure.

A “NO” vote is a vote against an increase in the annual special tax.

Michael J. Ciccozzi, County Counsel

09-925

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE N

The controversy surrounding a special tax for the upper road stems from the 1980’s, roughly 30 years ago. Whatever subjective history you
choose to listen to, the operative theme is: that was then, and this is now. Current costs of asphalt, labor, and grading require this tax to afford
the CSD the ability to improve and maintain the roadways. Arguments for maintaining and improving existing roads are obvious and
elementary, ranging from improved property values to safety issues. The amount of the tax is UP TO, but not necessarily $400 per parcel per
year. The amount of this tax is minimal compared to the benefits it will bring. In addition, the lower road has had a virtually identical tax in place
since 1989, when the initial paving of that area took place. Many people will spend more for their daily coffee than what it will take to keep their
roads in good repair. Please vote YES on Measure N to keep the roads in good shape.

S.	Blake Bartel, Member, Board of Directors of Marble Mountain CSD

NO ARGUMENTS AGAINST THIS MEASURE WERE SUBMITTED

09-926