The question for Measure M:

"Vacaville Essential Services Protection
Measure. To protect essential city services such as
police programs to fight domestic violence, child/elder
abuse, gang activity and neighborhood crime;
fire/paramedic services for quick emergency
response times; street lighting for safety; and other
city services, shall City of Vacaville Ordinance No.
1899 be approved to renew a sales/use tax at a 3/4-
cent rate for 20 years, providing approximately
$14,700,000 per year in locally controlled funding that
stays in Vacaville?"

Yes

No

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE M

Background

During the recent recession, the City of Vacaville experienced a decline in sales and property tax
revenues. As a result, the City reduced its work force by 20%, decreased employee salaries and
benefits, and curtailed expenditures on equipment, supplies, and services provided to persons
living and working in Vacaville. Following these cutbacks, the City projected that its general fund
would have deficits of $1.5 million in fiscal year 2013/2014 and $2.7 million in fiscal year
2014/2015 and in future years. In response, the Vacaville City Council placed a measure on the
November 2012 ballot for a quarter-cent sales and use tax for 5 years, which was approved by
70% of the voters. The tax expires on March 31, 2018.

The Measure

The Vacaville City Council has placed this Measure on the ballot, asking voters to renew and
modify the current sales and use tax, effective April 1, 2018. The Measure would continue the
quarter-cent tax and increase it by an additional half-cent from 7.875% to 8.375% for 20 years.

The tax is levied on the sale or use of tangible products purchased by residents and visitors to the
City, such as clothing, household products, and other goods but not on things such as groceries
and prescription drugs.

Sales and use tax rates differ throughout California, ranging from 7.5% to 10%. As noted, the
current rate in Vacaville is 7.875%. The City receives 1.25% of the revenue generated by the tax
(1% from the Bradley-Burns Act and 0.25% from Measure M), with the remainder going to the
State (6.25%), Solano County (0.25%), and the Solano County Public Library (0.125%). This
Measure would increase the City’s share from 1.00% to 1.75%, which is a local tax that may not be
taken or used by other agencies, such as the state and federal governments. Should that happen,
the Measure provides that the tax will be reduced or not collected in order to offset such taking or
use, thereby ensuring that the revenue remains in Vacaville to fund City services and facilities.

Use of Proceeds

The Measure is a general tax. Its revenue is used for general municipal purposes such as police
and fire protection, gang suppression, ambulance service, street repair, park maintenance,
recreation programs, public parks, sports fields, roadway improvements, the McBride Senior
Center, the Walter V. Graham Aquatics Center, the Ulatis Community Center, the Vacaville
Performing Arts Theater, and other services and facilities for Vacaville residents.

Fiscal Impact

The Measure continues the current tax and adds an additional half-cent for 20 years in order to
maintain City services and facilities. Without the tax, the City forecasts its general fund will be
depleted by 2019 thereby requiring further cost cutting and reductions in City services and
programs.

A “yes” vote is a vote to continue the current tax and to add an additional half-cent for 20 years. A
“no” vote is a vote not to continue the current tax and add an additional half-cent. This Measure
requires a simple majority of “yes” votes to take effect.

Melinda C. H. Stewart, City Attorney

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure M. If you desire a copy of the Measure,
please call the City Clerk’s Office at 707-449-5100 and a copy will be mailed to you at no cost.

BALLOT ARGUMENT AGAINST VACAVILLE SALES TAX INCREASE

MEASURE M

NO on Measure^ . It breaks promises made in 2012 when Vacaville asked voters to approve
a “temporary” tax increase.

The tax was needed, they said, to fill a temporary hole in Vacaville’s budget caused by the
Recession. They said it would last ONLY FIVE YEARS.

We trusted them and passed the tax. Now they want to break that promise, TRIPLE the tax,
and extend it 20 YEARS!

The Recession ended. Property values are higher than ever. Hundreds of new homes were
added since 2012. Another 3,800 are underway. Property tax revenue is pouring in!

Retail sales are booming. The Outlets are packed. Nut Tree Plaza added 17 new stores. So
sales tax revenue is pouring in too!

Why does the City want even more money? Because of another broken promise. During the
Recession, taxpayers begged the City Council to bring city pensions under control by switching
from CalPERS to something else. The City Council said they’d consider it.

Pensions are a major part of Vacaville’s budget. CalPERS has underperformed and lost
money for years, heaping enormous annual costs on participating cities like Vacaville.

Now the temporary tax is expiring and, although the State forced some reforms, Vacaville still
clings to CalPERS guaranteed pensions.

CalPERS pensions are based on final salary. Vacaville has over 100 employees whose total
compensation exceeds $200,000/year ($1 million every 5 years EACH)!

Vacaville experienced a financial downturn and asked voters to bail them out. We did, based
on their promise that it would last ONLY FIVE YEARS. They should have learned from that
experience and taken aggressive steps to prevent it from happening again. They didn’t.

Whose budget should be cut to pay for their irresponsibility? Vacaville’s seniors and working
families? No, the City should cut its budget. Vote NO on Measure M .

CM	CO

sj/TijnottjfeA. piffle, Director of Legal Affairs, Howard Jarvis Taxpayers Association

j M jg

sLGeorge Guggi Jr. President, Solano County Taxpayers Association

LL

oo

CD

ZD

<ac

wo

CO

Otr

§1 *

022 £

UJ 0.
0C O

Argument in favor of Measure M

Vote YES on M to MAINTAIN SAFE NEIGHBORHOODS AND OUTSTANDING QUALITY OF
LIFE IN VACAVILLE.

In 2012, following several consecutive years of state funding takeaways and millions in
cuts to city services and staff, over 70% of Vacaville voters approved Measure M, a mod-
est increase to our local sales tax rate.

For the past four years, Measure M has provided locally-controlled funding to preserve
essential services that protect our safety and quality of life in Vacaville.

THIS LOCAL FUNDING IS SET TO EXPIRE and Vacaville will again face multi-million dollar
budget deficits affecting police and fire emergency response times, street repair and
other essential services that keep Vacaville a safe and livable community.

Voting YES on M will renew and enhance locally-controlled funding in Vacaville to:

□	Provide sufficient on-duty firefighters and paramedics to protect rapid 9-1-1
emergency response times

□	Keep local youth away from crime, gangs and drugs

□	Provide police programs to curb domestic violence, child abuse and elder abuse

□	Ensure Police enforcement of probation violations to keep dangerous criminals
off our streets

□	Address delayed pothole repair and street maintenance

□	Repair or replace aging fire trucks, firefighting equipment, police cars and other
essential vehicles

□	Fix Vacaville's aging community centers, fire stations, parks and athletic facilities

□	Protect Vacaville's reserve funds for emergencies and provide for further
economic recovery

Measure M Protects Vacaville Taxpayers by:

□	Keeping Vacaville's sales tax rate lower than in neighboring communities

□	Ensuring visitors who shop in Vacaville and use our roads and services pay their
share

□	Adding just 50C to a $100 purchase with purchases of food and
medicine exempted

□	Requiring annual audits to ensure funds are spent properly

□	Keeping our dollars in Vacaville - Measure M funds cannot be taken by the State

Join Vacaville's most respected leaders and vote YES on M!

www.YesonMforVacaville.org

Is/ Len Augustine
Is/ Robert A. Powell
Is/ Kathleen Ramos
Is/ S. Scott Reynolds
Is/ Richard Rico

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF VACAVILLE MEASURE M

The Measure M proponents imply they’re just extending an existing tax, but they’re
actually TRIPLING it! And it’s a tax they PROMISED would last ONLY FIVE YEARS.

Proponents say “Measure M protects Vacaville taxpayers by keeping Vacaville’s sales
tax rate lowerHow does TRIPLING AND EXTENDING what was promised to be a
temporary tax “protect” taxpayers? That’s FALSE ADVERTISING!

They say new taxes are needed to provide police, firefighters, and street maintenance.
But those essential services should be first priority for Vacaville’s existing $170
MILLION budget! If maintaining essential services requires a tax increase, then where
is the $170 MILLION going?

There’s also no guarantee the new tax will fund essential services. Mayor Augustine is
trustworthy, but he’s 79. THIS TAX LASTS 20 YEARS! There’s no guarantee how
tomorrow’s officials might spend this money.

One thing’s for sure. Vacaville wouldn’t need a tax increase if it brought city salaries
and pensions under control.

When the combined incomes of an average Vacaville household total only $75,000, why
must hundreds of city employees receive individual salaries over $100,000?

In this year’s Budget Summary, the #1 listed impact is “continuing increases in
healthcare and retiree costs.” Not fighting crime, extinguishing fires, or repairing
streets.

The budget is crippled by heavy healthcare and pension debts for former employees
who no longer provide public service. And it’s because Vacaville won’t follow the
example of other cities that switched from CalPERS to cheaper retirement plans.

Say NO to wasteful spending. Say NO to Measure M.

s/ Howard Jarvis Taxpayers Association, Timothy A. Bittle, Director of Legal Affairs,
s/ Solano County Taxpayers Association, George Guynn Jr. President

REBUTTAL TO THE ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE M

The opponents to Measure M don't speak for Vacaville residents and rely on half-truths and
misguided information to confuse voters.

Vacaville has AGGRESSIVELY cut costs and employee compensation

Staffing levels, benefit and pension cost sharing have significantly cut City employee ex-
penses, saving the City millions of dollars

Vacaville has proactively addressed pension reforms—employees pay the maximum
share of their pension costs allowable

Performance measures indicate Vacaville is providing quality services with limited re-
sources

Much of the cost will be PAID BY PEOPLE WHO SHOP IN VACAVILLE

Measure M ensures that all who shop in Vacaville and use our roads and services pay
their share

Essential purchases like food and medicine are exempted, eliminating a burden on fixed
income residents

Measure M adds just 50 cents to a $100 purchase

Measure M STABILIZES OUR FINANCES AND PROTECTS VITAL SERVICES

Protects the City reserve fund for future downturns in the economy

Allows for adequate staffing of on-duty firefighters and paramedics which provide rapid
9-1-1 response times

Funds programs to fight gang activity and keep at-risk youth away from crime
and drugs

Funds the Police Department's anti-child abuse and elder abuse programs, the
Family Resource Center and Police Activities League

Bv law. Measure M FUNDS MUST STAY LOCAL

Funds from Measure M cannot be taken by the State or Washington, D.C.

Requires that Measure M is subject to annual audits
To Keep Vacaville Safe and Protect Quality of Life - Vote YES on M.

www.YesonMforVacaville.org

s/ Carol Landry, Former Vacaville Chamber of Commerce Chair
s/ Earl Heal, Colonel USAF (retired)

s/Thomas A. Ferrara, Solano County Sheriff/Vacaville Resident

s/ Steve Wilkins, Public Safety Officer (retired)/Chair 2012 Yes on Measure M Committee
s/ Richard Word, Co-Chair Yes on M Committee

READY TO PRINT, 9-9

ORDINANCE NO. 1899

ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF VACAVILLE
RENEWING AND MODIFYING A TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX TO
BE ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION

Section 1. TITLE. This ordinance shall be known as the City of Vacaville Transactions
and Use Tax Ordinance. The City of Vacaville hereinafter shall be called “City.” This ordinance
shall be applicable in the incorporated territory of the City.

Section 2. OPERATIVE DATE. Pursuant to Section 7265 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, '‘Operative date” means April 1,2018.

Section 3. PURPOSE. This ordinance is adopted to achieve the following, among other
purposes, and directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish those
purposes:

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the provisions of
Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code and
Section 7285.9 of Part 1.7 of Division 2, which authorizes the City to adopt this tax ordinance
which shall be operative if a majority of the electors voting on the measure vote to approve
the imposition of the tax at an election called for that purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates provisions
identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California insofar as those
provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax and provides
a measure therefore that can be administered and collected by the State Board of Equalization
in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and requires the least possible deviation
from, the existing statutory and administrative procedures followed by the State Board of
Equalization in administering and collecting the California State Sales and Use Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be administered in a
manner that will be, to the greatest degree possible, consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6
of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting the transactions
and use taxes, and at the same time, minimize the burden of record keeping upon persons
subject to taxation under the provisions of this ordinance.

Section 4. CONTRACT WITH STATE. Prior to the operative date, the City shall contract
with the State Board of Equalization to perform all functions incident to the administration and
operation of this transactions and use tax ordinance: provided, that if the City shall not have
contracted with the State Board of Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall nevertheless
so contract and in such a case the operative date shall be the first day of the first calendar
quarter following the execution of such a contract.

4 B / 61 9

Solano Digest MEASURES Text - L.indd G9

9/10/2016 3:00:14 PM

Section 5. TRANSACTIONS TAX RATE. For the privilege of selling tangible personal
property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated territory of the
City at the rate of three-quarter percent (.75%) of the gross receipts of any retailer from the
sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail in said territory on and after the operative
date of this ordinance.

Section 6. PLACE OF SALE. For the purposes of this ordinance, all retail sales are
consummated at the place of business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold
is delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier
for delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall include
delivery charges, when such charges are subject to the state sales and use tax, regardless of
the place to which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business
in the State or has more than one place of business, the place or places at which the retail
sales are consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations to be prescribed and
adopted by the State Board of Equalization.

Section 7. USE TAX RATE. An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other
consumption in the City of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on and after
the operative date of this ordinance for storage, use or other consumption in said territory at
the rate of three quarter percent (.75%) of the sales price of the property. The sales price shall
include delivery charges when such charges are subject to state sales or use tax regardless
of the place to which delivery is made.

Section 8. ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW. Except as otherwise provided
in this ordinance and except insofar as they are inconsistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing with
Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made
a part of this ordinance as though fully set forth herein.

Section 9. LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF STATE LAW AND COLLECTION OF USE
TAXES. In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code:

A. Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing agency,
the name of this City shall be substituted therefor, However, the substitution shall not be made:

1.	When the word “State" is used as a part of the title of the State Controller,
State Treasurer, State Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or the Constitution of the State of
California;

2.	When the result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or
against this City or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by or against the State
Board of Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the administration or operation
of this Ordinance.

3.	in those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sections referring
to the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the result of the substitution would
be to:

4 8/70

Solano Digest MEASURES Text - L.indd 70

9/10/2016 3:00:14 PM

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales, storage,
use or other consumption of tangible personal property which would not otherwise be exempt
from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other consumption remain subject to tax by the
State under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other
consumption of tangible personal property which would not be subject to tax by the State
under the said provision of that code.

4. In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711,6715,
6737,6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

B.	The word" City” shall be substituted for the word “State” in the phrase “retailer
engaged in business in this State” in Section 6203 and in the definition of that phrase in Section
6203 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

Section 10. PERMIT NOT REQUIRED. If a seller’s permit has been issued to a retailer
under Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional transactor’s permit shall
not be required by this ordinance.

Section 11. EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS.

A,	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the use
tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or by any city, city
and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or
the amount of any state-ad ministered transactions or use tax.

B,	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax the
gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum products,
to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the county in which the
sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of
persons or property under the authority of the laws of this State, the United States, or any
foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the City which is shipped to a point
outside the City, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by the retailer or his
agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at such point. For
the purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point outside the City shall be satisfied:

a. With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject
to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the
Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code,
and undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of
the Vehicle Code by registration to an out-of-City address and by a declaration under penalty

4 8/71

Solano Digest MEASURES Text - L.indd 71

9/10/2016 3:00:14 PM

48/71

of perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that such address is, in fact, his or her principal place
of residence; and

b. With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of
business out-of-City and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, that the
vehicle will be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible persona! property if the seller is obligated to furnish the
property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this
ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such
property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the property for an
amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, the sale or lease
of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or
lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional
right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

C. There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this ordinance, the storage,
use or other consumption in this City of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a transactions
tax under any state-administered transactions and use tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of aircraft and
used or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as
common carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under a certificate of public
convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this State, the United States, or any
foreign government, This exemption is in addition to the exemptions provided in Sections 6366
and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of California.

3.	If tiie purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price pursuant
to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the tangible
personal property arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such property for
any period of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed
by a lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, storage, use, or
other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power over, tangible personal
property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of
time for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the
contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

4 8/72

Solano Digest MEASURES Text - Undd 72

9/10/2016 3:00:14 PM

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in business in the
City shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible personal property,
unless the retailer ships or delivers the property into the City or participates within the City in
making the sale of the property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving the order,
either directly or indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer in the City or through any
representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the City under the authority
of the retailer.

7.	“A retailer engaged in business in the City” shall also include any retailer of
any of the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with
Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section
21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5
(commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to collect
use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an
address in the City.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit against that tax
any transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district imposing, or retailer
liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code
with respect to the sale to the person of the property the storage, use or other consumption of
which is subject to the use tax.

Section 12. USE OF TAX PROCEEDS. The tax imposed hereunder is a general tax, the
proceeds of which shall be deposited into the City's General Fund and expended for any lawful

purpose of the City.

Section 13. AMENDMENTS. All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this
ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use
taxes and which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1,7 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part of this ordinance, provided however, that
no such amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this ordinance.

Section 14. ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN. No injunction or writ of mandate
or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit, action or proceeding in any court
against the State or the City, or against any officer of the State or the City, to prevent or enjoin
the collection under this ordinance, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code,
of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.

Section 15. SEVERABILITY. If any provision of this ordinance or the application thereof to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the ordinance and the application
of such provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

Section 16. EFFECTIVE DATE. This ordinance relates to the levying and collecting of the
City transactions and use taxes and shall take effect immediately upon approval of the voters.

4 8/73

Solano Digest MEASURES Text - L.lndd 73

9/10/2016 3:00:14 PM

48/73

Section 17. TERMINATION DATE. The authority to levy the tax imposed by this ordinance
shall expire twenty (20) years after the date the tax is first collected.

Section 18. PROTECTION OF FUNDING. Current law forbids any decrease in State or
federal funding to the City because of City’s adoption of a transactions and use tax. However,
if such funding is reduced as a result of the adoption of this transactions and use tax, then
the amount of the tax will be reduced annually as necessary in order to restore such State or
federal funding. Consequently, whether directly or indirectly, no proceeds derived from this
may be taken away by the State or federal governments.

Section 19. ELECTION.

A.	Cali of Election. A municipal election is hereby called and ordered to be held
in the City on Tuesday, November 8,2016, at which election there shall be submitted to the
qualified voters of the City the proposition set forth beiow.

B.	Proposition. The proposition shall appear on the ballotfor said municipal election
in the following form:

“Vacaville Essential Services Protection Measure. To protect essential
city services such as police programs to fight domestic violence, child/elder
abuse, gang activity and neighborhood crime; fire/paramedic services for
quick emergency response times; street lighting for safety; and other city
services, shall City of Vacaville Ordinance No. 1899 be approved to renew
a sales/use tax at a 3/4-cent rate for 20 years, providing approximately
$14,700,000 per year in locally controlled funding that stays in Vacaville?"

The City Council ("Council") does hereby submit to hie qualified voters of the City, at said
municipal election, this Ordinance and the proposition set forth above.

C.	Submission: Intent. The Council does hereby submit to the qualified voters of
the City, at said municipal election, this Ordinance and the proposition set forth in Section 18
hereof. The City intends to levy the transactions and use tax for the objects and purposes set
forth above if a majority of all qualified voters voting on the proposition set forth above vote in
favor thereof.

D.	Polls Qoen. The polls for said election shall be opened at seven o’clock A.M. of
the day of said election and shall remain open continuously from said time until eight o’clock
P.M. of the same day, when said polls shall be closed, except as provided in Section 14401 of
the Elections Code of the State of California.

E.	Consolidation with Statewide General Election. The municipal election hereby
called for the date hereinbefore specified shall be, and is hereby, ordered consolidated with
the statewide general election to be held within the City on said date, and within the territory
affected by the consolidation, the election shall be held and conducted, election officers
appointed, voting precincts designated, ballots printed, polls opened and closed, ballots counted

Solano Digest MEASURES Text- L.indd 74

9/10/2016 3:00:14 PM

48/74

and returned, returns canvassed, results declared, and all other proceedings incidental to and
connected with the election shall be regulated and done in accordance with the provisions of
law regulating the statewide general election and specified herein. The Board of Supervisors
of the County of Solano is hereby requested to order the consolidation of the municipal election
hereby called with said statewide general election, and the Board of Supervisors of the County of
Solano is hereby authorized to canvass the returns of said municipal election, and said election
shall be held in all respects as if there were only one election and only one form of ballot shall
be used. Said Board of Supervisors shall certify the results of the canvass of the returns of
said municipal election to the Council, which shall thereafter declare the results thereof. The
measure submitted by this Ordinance shall be designated on the ballot by a letter printed on
the left margin of the square containing the description of the measure, as provided in Section
13116 of the Elections Code of the State of California.

F Countv Registrar of Voters’ Services. The Board of Supervisors of the County of
Solano is hereby requested to permit the County Registrar of Voters to provide such services
as may be necessary to properly and lawfully hold and conduct a municipal election in the City
on November 8,2016, including, but not limited to, consolidation of precincts; recruitment and
appointment of election officers; establishment of polling places; preparing and mailing notices
of appointment; printing sample ballots, sample ballot envelopes, ballot measures, polling
place cards, ballot arguments and mailing to registered voters; the providing and printing of
official ballots and polling cards; purchase election supplies, including precinct and absent
voter supplies, voting booths and flags; provide for absentee voting at the Office of Registrar of
Voters, Election Division; cartage of voting booths, ballots, ballot boxes and precinct supplies to
precincts; supervision and conduct of election; provide registration lists and any other materials
and services that may be requested from time to time by the City Clerk or required to lawfully
conduct the election in accordance with the California Elections Code,

G.	Canvass of Returns. The County Registrar of Voters is hereby authorized to
tabulate votes and canvass the returns of the municipal election, which shall be held in ail
respects as if there were only one election. Only one form of ballot shall be used and the
returns of the election need not be canvassed by the Council. The canvass shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Division 15 (commencing with Section 15000) of the California
Elections Code. The County Clerk shall declare the results of the canvass of the returns of
the municipal election, based on the certified statement of results submitted by the County
Registrar of Voters.

H.	Reimbursement. The City shall reimburse the County of Solano for services
performed pursuant to this Ordinance upon presentation of a bill to the City.

I.	Voting Qualifications. Ail persons qualified to vote at general municipaf elections
in the City upon the date of the election herein provided for shall be qualified to vote upon the
proposition submitted at said election.

J.	Ballots. Ballots for the election shali be provided in the form and in the number
provided by law. On said ballots, in addition to any other printed matter which may be required

4 8/75

Solano Digest MEASURES Text - Lindd 75

9/10/2016 3:00:14 PM

48/75

by law, two voting squares shall be set off to the right of the proposition submitted at the
election, in the manner provided by law, one having the word “YES" printed before it, and the
other having the word “NO” printed before it,

K.	Method of Voting. Each voter to vote for the proposition shall stamp or write a
cross, or indicate by hole punch or other means, in the blank space opposite the word “YES"
on the ballot to the right of the proposition; and each voter to vote against the proposition shall
stamp or write a cross, or indicate by hole punch or other means, in the blank space opposite
the word “NO" on the ballot to the right of the proposition,

L.	Compliance with Law, In all particulars not recited in this Ordinance, the election
shall be held and conducted as provided by law for holding municipal elections.

M.	City Clerk. The notice of the time and place of holding the election is given
and the City Clerk is directed to give further or additional notice of the election in the time,
form and manner as required by law. The City Clerk is hereby directed to file with the Board of
Supervisors of the County of Solano and the County Registrar of Voters a certified copy of this
Ordinance and to take all other actions necessary to effectuate the directives of this Ordinance
including, but not limited to, revising the language of the proposition set forth in Section 19.B
to ensure that it complies with law. The City Clerk is directed to transmit to the City Attorney a
copy of this Ordinance and the City Attorney is directed to prepare an impartial analysis thereof
consistent with applicable law.

I HEREBY CERTIFY that this Ordinance was introduced at a regular meeting of the City
Council of the City of Vacaville, held on the 12th day of July, 2016, and ADOPTED AND PASSED
at a regular meeting of the City Council of the City of Vacaville, held on the 9th day of August,
2016, by the following vote:

AYES:	Councilmembers Harris, Hunt, Mashburn, Vice Mayor Rowlett, Mayor Augustine	
NOES:	None	
ABSENT:	None	
ATTEST:		APPROVED:
By: /s/ Michelle A. Thombrugh, City Clerk		/s/ Leonard J. Augustine, Mayor
Date: August 9,2016		

U 8 / 7 6

Solano Digest MEASURES Text - L.indd 76

9/10/2016 3:00:14 PM

48/76

READY TO PRINT, 9-9____________READY	TO	PRINT,	9-9

Full Measure M- READY TO PRINT, 9-10

MEASUREM

CITY OF VACAVILLE	
“Vacaville Essential Services Protection Measure.  To protect essential city services such as police programs to fight domestic violence, child/elder abuse, gang activity and neighborhood crime; fire/paramedic services for quick emergency response times; street lighting for safety; and other city services, shall City of Vacaville Ordinance No. 1899 be approved to renew a sales/use tax at a 3/4-cent rate for 20 years, providing approximately $14,700,000 per year in locally controlled funding that stays in Vacaville?”	YES
	NO

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE M

Background

During the recent recession, the City of Vacaville experienced a decline in sales and
property tax revenues. As a result, the City reduced its work force by 20%, decreased
employee salaries and benefits, and curtailed expenditures on equipment, supplies, and
services provided to persons living and working in Vacaville. Following these cutbacks,
the City projected that its general fund would have deficits of $1.5 million In fiscal year
2013/2014 and $2.7 million in fiscal year 2014/2015 and in future years. In response,
the Vacaville City Council placed a measure on the November 2012 ballot for a quarter-
cent sales and use tax for 5 years, which was approved by 70% of the voters. The tax
expires on March 31, 2018.

The Measure

The Vacaville City Council has placed this Measure on the ballot, asking voters to renew
and modify the current sales and use tax, effective April 1, 2018. The Measure would
continue the quarter-cent tax and increase it by an additional half-cent from 7.875% to
8.375% for 20 years.

The tax is levied on the sale or use of tangible products purchased by residents and visitors
to the City, such as clothing, household products, and other goods but not on things such
as groceries and prescription drugs.

4 S / 6 3

Solano Digest MEASURES Text - L.lndd 63

9/10/2016 3:00:05 PM

Sales and use tax rates differ throughout California, ranging from 7.5% to 10%. As noted,
the current rate in Vacaville is 7.875%, The City receives 1.25% of the revenue generated
by the tax {1 % from the Bradley-Burns Act and 0.25% from Measure M), with the remainder
going to the State (6.25%), Solano County (0.25%), and the Solano County Public Library
(0.125%). This Measure would increase the City’s share from 1.00% to 1.75%, which is a
local tax that may not be taken or used by other agencies, such as the state and federal
governments. Should that happen, the Measure provides that the tax will be reduced
or not collected in order to offset such taking or use, thereby ensuring that the revenue
remains in Vacaville to fund City services and facilities.

Use of Proceeds

The Measure is a general tax. Its revenue is used for general municipal purposes such
as police and fire protection, gang suppression, ambulance service, street repair, park
maintenance, recreation programs, public parks, sports fields, roadway improvements,
the McBride Senior Center, the Walter V. Graham Aquatics Center, the Ulatis Community
Center, the Vacaville Performing Arts Theater, and other services and facilities for Vacaville
residents.

Fiscal Impact

The Measure continues the current tax and adds an additional half-cent for 20 years in
order to maintain City services and facilities. Without the tax, the City forecasts its general
fund will be depleted by 2019 thereby requiring further cost cutting and reductions in City
services and programs.

A “yes” vote is a vote to continue the current tax and to add an additional half-cent for 20
years. A “no” vote is a vote not to continue the current tax and add an additional half-cent.
This Measure requires a simple majority of “yes” votes to take effect.

/s/ Melinda C, H, Stewart, City Attorney

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure M, If you desire a copy of the
measure, please call the City Clerk’s office at (707) 449-5100 and a copy will be mailed
to you at no cost,

4 8 / 6 4

Solano Digest MEASURES Text - L.irtdd 64

9/10/2016 3:00:14 PM

48/64

READY TO PRIMT, 9-9

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE M

Vote YES on M to MAINTAIN SAFE NEIGHBORHOODS AND OUTSTANDING QUALITY OF LIFE
IN VACAVILLE.

In 2012, following several consecutive years of state funding takeaways and millions
in cuts to city services and staff, over 70% of Vacaville voters approved Measure M, a
modest increase to our local sales tax rate.

For the past four years, Measure M has provided locally-controlled funding to preserve
essential services that protect our safety and quality of life in Vacaville.

THIS LOCAL FUNDING IS SET TO EXPIRE and Vacaville will again face multi-million dollar
budget deficits affecting police and fire emergency response times, street repair and other
essential services that keep Vacaville a safe and livable community.

Voting YES on M will renew and enhance locally-controlled funding in Vacaville to:

•	Provide sufficient on-duty firefighters and paramedics to protect rapid 9-1-1
emergency response times

•	Keep local youth away from crime, gangs and drugs

•	Provide police programs to curb domestic violence, child abuse and elder abuse

•	Ensure Police enforcement of probation violations to keep dangerous criminals
off our streets

•	Address delayed pothole repair and street maintenance

•	Repair or replace aging fire trucks, firefighting equipment, police cars and other
essential vehicles

•	Fix Vacaville’s aging community centers, fire stations, parks and athletic facilities

•	Protect Vacaville's reserve funds for emergencies and provide for further economic
recovery

Measure M Protects Vacaville Taxpayers by:

•	Keeping Vacaville’s sales tax rate lower than in neighboring communities

•	Ensuring visitors who shop in Vacaville and use our roads and services pay their
share

•	Adding just 500 to a $100 purchase with purchases of food and medicine exempted

•	Requiring annual audits to ensure funds are spent properly

•	Keeping our dollars in Vacaville - Measure M funds cannot be taken by the State

Join Vacaville's most respected leaders and vote YES on Ml

www, YesonMforVacaviii8.org

/s/ Len Augustine, Mayor, City of Vacaville

/$/ Robert A. Powell, Vacaville Chamber of Commerce

Is/ Kathleen Ramos, Realtor and Community Servant

fsf S. Scott Reynolds, Chairman of the Board Business Owner

/s/ Richard Rico, Retired News Publisher________________________________

<8/65

Solano Digest MEASURES Text - Lindd 65

9/10/2016 3:00:14 PM

48/65

READY TO PRINT, 9-9

'ARGUMENTS IN SUPPORT OF OR IN OPPOSITION TO THE PROPOSED LAWS ARE THE OPINIONS OF THE AUTHORS."

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE M

The Measure M proponents imply they’re just extending an existing tax, but they’re actually
TRIPLING it! And it’s a tax they PROMISED would last ONLY FIVE YEARS.

Proponents say "Measure M protects Vacaville taxpayers by keeping Vacaville’s sales tax
rate lower,.., ” How does TRIPLING AND EXTENDING what was promised to be a temporary
tax “protect" taxpayers? That’s FALSE ADVERTISING!

They say new taxes are needed to provide police, firefighters, and street maintenance.
But those essential services should be first priority for Vacaville’s existing $170 MILLION
budget! if maintaining essential services requires a tax increase, then where is the $170
MILLION going?

There’s also no guarantee the new tax will fund essential services. Mayor Augustine is
trustworthy, but he’s 79. THIS TAX LASTS 20 YEARS! There’s no guarantee how tomorrow’s
officials might spend this money.

One thing’s for sure. Vacaville wouldn’t need a tax increase if it brought city salaries and
pensions under control.

When the combined incomes of an average Vacaville household total only $75,000, why
must hundreds of city employees receive individual salaries over $100,000?

In this year’s Budget Summary, the #1 listed impact is “continuing increases in healthcare
and retiree costs,” Not fighting crime, extinguishing fires, or repairing streets.

The budget is crippled by heavy healthcare and pension debts for former employees who
no longer provide public service. And it’s because Vacaville won’t follow the example of
other cities that switched from CalPERS to cheaper retirement plans.

Say NO to wasteful spending. Say NO to Measure M.

1st Howard Jarvis Taxpayers Association
Timothy A. Bittle, Director of Legal Affairs

1st Solano County Taxpayers Association
George Guynn Jr., President

4 8/66

Solano Digest MEASURES Text - L.indd 66

9/10/2016 3:00:14 PM

READY TO PRINT, 9-9

"ARGUMENTS IN SUPPORT OP OR IN OPPOSITION TO THE PROPOSED LAWS ARE THE OPINIONS OF THE AUTHORS,1

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE M

NO on Measure M. It breaks promises made in 2012 when Vacaville asked voters to
approve a “temporary” tax increase.

The tax was needed, they said, to fill a temporary hole in Vacaville’s budget caused by
the Recession, They said it would last ONLY FIVE YEARS.

We trusted them and passed the tax. Now they want to break that promise, TRIPLE the
tax, and extend it 20 YEARS!

The Recession ended, Property values are higher than ever, Hundreds of new homes were
added since 2012. Another 3,800 are underway. Property tax revenue is pouring in!

Retail sales are booming. The Outlets are packed. Nut Tree Plaza added 17 new stores.
So sales tax revenue is pouring in too!

Why does the City want even more money? Because of another broken promise. During
the Recession, taxpayers begged the City Council to bring city pensions under control
by switching from CalPERS to something else. The City Council said they’d consider it.

Pensions are a major part of Vacaville’s budget. CalPERS has underperformed and lost
money for years, heaping enormous annual costs on participating cities like Vacaville.

Now the temporary tax is expiring and, although the State forced some reforms, Vacaville
still clings to CalPERS guaranteed pensions.

CalPERS pensions are based on final salary. Vacaville has over 100 employees whose
total compensation exceeds $200,000/year ($1 million every 5 years EACH)!

Vacaville experienced a financial downturn and asked voters to bail them out. We did, based
on their promise that it would last ONLY FIVE YEARS. They should have learned from that
experience and taken aggressive steps to prevent it from happening again. They didn’t,

Whose budget should be cut to pay for their irresponsibility? Vacaville’s seniors and
working families? No, the City should cut its budget. Vote NO on Measure M.

Howard Jarvis Taxpayers Association
/s/ Timothy A. Bittle, Director of Legal Affairs

Solano County Taxpayers Association
/s/ George Guynn Jr., President,

4 8/67

Solano Digest MEASURES Text - L.indd 67

9/10/2016 3:00:14 PM

READY TO PRINT, 9-10

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE M

The opponents to Measure M don’t speak for Vacaville residents and rely on half-truths
and misguided information to confuse voters.

Vacaville has AGGRESSIVELY cut costs and employee compensation

•	Staffing levels, benefit and pension cost sharing have significantly cut City employee
expenses, saving the City millions of dollars

•	Vacaville has proactively addressed pension reforms—employees pay the
maximum share of their pension costs allowable

•	Performance measures indicate Vacaville is providing quality services with limited
resources

Much of the cost will be PAID BY PEOPLE WHO SHOP IN VACAVILLE

•	Measure M ensures that ail who shop in Vacaville and use our roads and services
pay their share

•	Essential purchases like food and medicine are exempted, eliminating a burden
on fixed income residents

•	Measure M adds just 50 cents to a $100 purchase

Measure M STABILIZES OUR FINANCES AND PROTECTS VITAL SERVICES

•	Protects the City reserve fund for future downturns in the economy

•	Allows for adequate staffing of on-duty firefighters and paramedics which provide
rapid 9-1-1 response times

•	Funds programs to fight gang activity and keep at-risk youth away from crime
and drugs

•	Funds the Police Department’s anti-child abuse and elder abuse programs, the
Family Resource Center and Police Activities League

Bv law. Measure M FUNDS MUST STAY LOCAL

•	Funds from Measure M cannot be taken by the State or Washington, D.C.

•	Requires that Measure M is subject to annual audits

To Keep Vacaville Safe and Protect Quality of Life - Vote YES on M.
www.YesonMforVacaville.org

Is! Carol Landry, Former Vacaville Chamber of Commerce Chair
/s/ Earl Heal, Colonel USAF (retired)

Is/ Thomas A. Ferrara, Solano County Sheriff/VacaviIie Resident

Is/ Steve Wilkins, Public Safety Officer (retired)/Chair 2012 Yes on Measure M Committee

Protect Quality of Life in Vacaville
Is/ Richard Word, Co-Chair Yes on M Committee

4 8 / 6 S

Solano Digest MEASURES Text - Lindd 68

9/10/2016 3:00:14 PM

48/68