City of Marysville, California,
Cannabis Business Tax, Measure F

(November 2016)

Ballot question

The following question appeared on the ballot:111

// Shall the ordinance amending the Marysville Municipal Code to add a

“Cannabis Business Tax” effective July 1, 2016 on marijuana businesses to
help fund general city services at a rate not to exceed 15% of gross receipts
for the licensed sale of medical and non-medical marijuana, and not to
exceed $25 per square foot on the cultivation of cannabis by licensed
growers, estimated to generate $650,000 annually, with no termination date
and annual adjustments by a consumer price index, be adopted?13

FILED

AUG 0 2 2016

TERRY A. HANSEN, Clerk
Impartial Analysis from City Attorney dY ^nioQoi

» Deputy Cferk

Measure_____, if adopted by a majority of the voters voting on the measure, would add an

ordinance to the Marysville Municipal Code imposing a Cannabis Business Tax on cannabis
(marijuana) businesses which operate in the City. This ordinance authorizes the City Council to
set a maximum tax rate of fifteen percent (15%) of gross receipts but sets the initial tax rate at five
percent (5%) of gross receipts for the licensed sale of medical and non-medical marijuana. The
ordinance also authorizes the City Council to set a maximum tax rate of twenty-five dollars
($25.00) per square foot but with an initial tax rate of fifteen dollars ($15.00) per square foot on
the cultivation of cannabis by licensed growers. The ordinance broadly defines “cannabis
business” to include any commercial business activity not limited to, transporting, manufacturing,
compounding, converting, processing, preparing, storing, packaging, wholesale, and/or retail sales
of Cannabis and any ancillary products in the city, whether or not carried on for gain or profit
which is permitted by both State and local law. The tax is a gross receipts tax imposed on cannabis
businesses and is not a sales tax imposed on qualified patients, primary caregivers or other persons
who purchase or otherwise acquire cannabis for their personal use. All revenue generated from
the proposed Cannabis Business Tax would be deposited into the City’s General Fund and,
accordingly, all monies collected pursuant to the Cannabis Business Tax would be used by the
City to pay for City operations and programs, such as fire and police protection, traffic safety,
street and sidewalk repair, park maintenance, debt service and general administration of the City.
The City would not be bound to use the tax monies for any special purpose or for any particular
projects, facilities or programs. Because the proposed cannabis business tax would be imposed
for general municipal governmental purposes, the ballot measure proposes a “general tax” as
defined by Article XIII of the California Constitution. Accordingly for the ballot measure to be
adopted, it must receive a simple majority “yes” vote.

If adopted, the Cannabis Business Tax on Marijuana Dispensaries and Commercial
Cannabis Cultivation businesses shall be effective July 1, 2016, and will be subject to annual
adjustments for changes in the Consumer Price Index. The measure was placed on the ballot by
the ^ovemipjg body^of the City.

Assistant City Attorney

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR FOR MEASURE F

Voting Yes on Measure F will ensure that any marijuana business
operating in the City of Marysville will pay its fair share of taxes. It is
important that these types of businesses contribute to the well being of our
community for the privilege of operating here.

A yes vote will amend the Marysville Municipal Code to add a Cannabis
Business Tax to any business that sells, cultivates, or produces marijuana
in the City of Marysville. The tax will be calculated at a rate not to exceed
15% of gross sales receipts for the licensed retail sale of marijuana. In
addition, the measure will impose a tax on the cultivation of cannabis by
any licensed grower that is not to exceed $25 per square foot.

The passage of this measure will produce an estimated $650,000
in annual revenue for the city, revenue that can help fund public safety,
parks, and our streets. Help Marysville prosper by making sure that
marijuana facilities pay their fair share. We respectfully ask you join us in
voting Yes on Measure F.

/s/ Billy D. Simmons, Councilman
/s/ Ricky A. Samayoa, Mayor
/s/Aaron W. Easton, Chief of Police
/s/ Dale Vogelsang, Fire Chief

EXHIBIT 2
ORDINANCE 1385

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
MARYSVILLE, CALIFORNIA, ADDING CHAPTER 5.12 ENTITLED “CANNABIS
BUSINESS TAX” TO TITLE 5 ENTITLED “BUSINESS LICENSES AND
REGULATIONS,” OF THE MARYSVILLE MUNICIPAL CODE

The City Council of the City of Marysville does ordain as follows:

<

SECTION I. Chapter 5.12, entitled “Cannabis Business Tax,” is hereby
added to Title 5, entitled “Business Licenses and Regulations,” to read as follows:

CHAPTER 5.12
Cannabis Business Tax

5.12.010

5.12.020

5.12.030

5.12.040

5.12.050

5.12.060

5.12.070

5.12.080

5.12.090

5.12.100

5.12.110

5.12.120

5.12.130

5.12.140

5.12.150

5.12.160

5.12.170

5.12.180

5.12.190

5.12.200

5.12.210

5.12.220

5.12.230

Purpose of chapter.

Tax imposed.

Definitions.

Other licenses, permits, taxes, fees or charges.

Payment of tax does not authorize unlawful business.

Payment - Location.

Amount of cannabis tax owed.

Payment - Time limits.

Payments and communications made by mail - Proof of timely submittal.
Payment - When taxes deemed delinquent.

Notice not required by city.

Payment - Penalty for delinquency.

Waiver of penalties.

Refunds - Credits.

Refunds and procedures.

Exemptions - Application - Issuance conditions.

Exemptions - General.

Exemptions - Occasional transactions.

Enforcement - Duties of Tax Administrator and Police Department.

Rules and regulations.

Apportionment.

Audit and examination of records and equipment.

Tax deemed debt to city.

1

5.12.240	Deficiency determinations.

5.12.250 Tax assessment - Authorized When - Nonpayment - Fraud.

5.12.260	Tax assessment - Notice requirements.

5.12.270	Tax assessment - Hearing - Application and determination.

5.12.280	Conviction for chapter violation - Taxes	not waived.

5.12.290	Violation deemed misdemeanor - Penalty.

5.12.300	Severability.

5.12.310	Effect of state and federal reference/authorization.

5.12.320	Remedies cumulative.

5.12.330	Amendment or repeal.

5.12.010 Purpose of chapter.

This chapter shall be known as the "cannabis business tax" and is enacted solely to raise
revenue for the general governmental purposes of the City and not for purposes of
regulation or for raising revenues for regulatory purposes. All of the proceeds from the
tax imposed by this chapter shall be placed in the City's general fund and used for
purposes consistent with general fund expenditures of the City.

5.12.020 Tax imposed.

There is established and imposed, a cannabis business tax at the rate set forth in this
chapter.

5.12.030 Definitions.

The definitions set forth in this part shall govern the application and interpretation of this
chapter.

(A)	"Business" shall include all activities engaged in or caused to be engaged in within the
City, including any commercial or industrial enterprise, trade, profession, occupation,
vocation, calling, or livelihood, whether or not carried on for gain or profit, but shall not
include the services rendered by an employee to his or her employer.

(B)	"Cannabis" means all parts of the plant Cannabis sativa Linnaeus, Cannabis indica, or
Cannabis ruderalis, whether growing or not; the seeds thereof; the resin, whether crude or
purified, extracted from any part of the plant; and every compound, manufacture, salt,
derivative, mixture, or preparation of the plant, its seeds or resin.

(C)	“Cannabis business,” “Commercial cannabis business” or "medical marijuana business" or
“non-medical marijuana business” means any commercial business activity not
limited to, transporting, manufacturing, compounding, converting, processing, preparing,
storing, packaging, wholesale, and/or retail sales of Cannabis and any ancillary products
in the city, whether or not carried on for gain or profit which is permitted by both State
and local law.

(D)	“Cannabis business tax," "Business tax" or "Cannabis tax" means the tax due for engaging
in commercial cannabis business in the City.

(E)	“Canopy” shall mean the diameter of a plant, a straight line passing through the center of the
cannabis plant in its mature state. All plants will be measured or presumed to be in their full
growth state regardless if they are “clones,” infants in the vegetative cycle, or full mature
plants in the flowering stage of their life cycle. The plant canopy does not need to be
continuous on any premise in determining the total square footage which will be subject to
tax.

(F)	“Commercial Cannabis Cultivation Business” means engaged in business involving the planting,
growing, harvesting, drying, curing, grading, or trimming of cannabis or that does all or any
combination of those activities.

(G)	“Cultivation Facility” or “Grow Site” shall mean the square footage of any place or location
where cannabis or any of its derivatives is cultivated, grown, harvested, packaged, processed
or stored.

(H)	“Dispensary” means a facility where medical cannabis, medical cannabis products, or devices for
the use of medical cannabis or medical cannabis products are offered, either individually or in
any combination, for retail sale, including an establishment that delivers, pursuant to express
authorization by local ordinance, medical cannabis and medical cannabis products as part of a
retail sale.

(I)	“Distributor” or “Distribution” or “Distribution Facility” shall mean a person or facility
licensed by the State to engage in the business of purchasing medical cannabis from a
licensed cultivator, or medical cannabis products from a licensed manufacturer, for sale to a
licensed dispensary.

(J)	“Employee” means each and every person engaged in the operation or conduct of any
business, whether as owner, member of the owner's family, partner, associate, agent,
manager or solicitor, and each and every other person employed or working in such
business for a wage, salary, commission, barter or any other form of compensation.

(K)	“Engaged in business” means the commencing, conducting, operating, managing or
carrying on of a Cannabis business and the exercise of corporate or franchise powers,
whether done as owner, or by means of an officer, agent, manager, employee, or
otherwise, whether operating from a fixed location in the City or coming into the City
from an outside location to engage in such activities. A person shall be deemed engaged in
business within the City if any of the following conditions exist:

(1)	Such person or person's employee maintains a fixed place of business within the City for
the benefit or partial benefit of such person;

(2)	Such person or person's employee owns or leases real property within the City for
business purposes;

(3)	Such person or person's employee regularly maintains a stock of tangible personal
property in the City for sale in the ordinary course of business;

(4)	Such person or person's employee regularly conducts solicitation of business within the
City;

(5)	Such person or person's employee performs work or renders services in the City on a
regular and continuous basis involving more than five working days per year;

3

(6)	Such person or person's employee utilizes the streets within the City in connection with the
operation of motor vehicles for business purposes. The foregoing specified activities shall
not be a limitation on the meaning of "engaged in business."

(L)	“Evidence of doing business” means whenever any person shall, by use of signs, circulars,
cards or any other advertising media, including the use of internet or telephone
solicitation, o r represents to a government agency or to the public that such person is
engaged in a Cannabis business in the City, then these facts may be used as evidence
that such person is engaged in business in the City.

(M)	“Gross Receipts” except as otherwise specifically provided, means the total amount
actually received or receivable from all sales; the total amount or compensation actually
received or receivable for the performance of any act or service, of whatever nature it may
be, for which a charge is made or credit allowed, whether or not such act or service is
done as a part of or in connection with the sale of materials, goods, wares or merchandise;
discounts, rents, royalties, fees, commissions, dividends, and gains realized from trading
in stocks or bonds, however designated. Included in "gross receipts" shall be all receipts,
cash, credits and property of any kind or nature, without any deduction therefrom on
account of the cost of the property sold, the cost of materials used, labor or service costs,
interest paid or payable, or losses or other expenses whatsoever, except that the following
shall be excluded therefrom:

(1)	Cash discounts allowed and taken on sales;

(2)	Any tax required by law to be included in or added to the purchase price and collected
from the consumer or purchaser;

(3)	Such part of the sale price of any property returned by purchasers to the seller as refunded
by the seller by way of cash or credit allowances or return of refundable deposits previously
included in gross receipts;

(4)	Receipts from investments where the holder of the investment receives only interest and/or
dividends, royalties, annuities and gains from the sale or exchange of stock or securities
solely for a person's own account, not derived in the ordinary course of a business;

(5)	Receipts derived from the occasional sale of used, obsolete or surplus trade fixtures,
machinery or other equipment used by the taxpayer in the regular course of the taxpayer’s
business.

(6)	Receipts of refundable deposits, except that such deposits when forfeited and taken into
income of the business shall not be excluded when in excess of one dollar;

(N)	“Manufacturer” means a person that conducts the production, preparation, propagation, or
compounding of manufactured medical cannabis, or medical cannabis products either
directly or indirectly or by extraction methods, or independently by means of chemical
synthesis at a fixed location that packages or repackages medical cannabis or medical
cannabis products or labels or relabels its container, that holds a valid state license and that
holds a valid local license or permit.

(O)	"Person" means, without limitation, any natural individual, organization, firm, trust,
common law trust, estate, partnership of any kind, association, syndicate, club, joint stock
company, joint venture, limited liability company, corporation (including foreign, domestic,

and nonprofit), cooperative, receiver, trustee, guardian, or other representative appointed by
order of any court.

(P)	“Sale” means and includes any sale, exchange, or barter.

(Q)	“Square Foot” or “Square Footage” shall mean the canopy space permitted by permit type by the
local agency and/or the State and shall be the basis for the tax base for cultivation.

(R)	“Tax Administrator” or “Administrator” means the Administrative Services Director or such
other designated by the City Manager to administer this chapter.

(S)	“Transporter” means a person issued a state license and local license to transport medical or non-
medical cannabis or cannabis products where permitted by both State and local law in an amount
above the threshold determined by the state permitting agency between facilities that have been
issued a state license.

(T)	“Transport” means the transfer of medical cannabis or medical cannabis products from the
permitted business location of one licensee to the permitted business location of another licensee,
for the purpose of conducting commercial cannabis activity authorized by the state.

5.12.040 Other licenses, permits, taxes, fees or charges.

Nothing contained in this Chapter 5.12 shall be deemed to repeal, amend, be in lieu of, replace
or in any way affect any requirements for any license or permit required by, under or by virtue
of any provision of any other title or chapter of this code or any other ordinance or resolution
of the city, nor be deemed to repeal, amend, be in lieu of, replace or in any way affect any
tax, fee or other charge imposed, assessed or required by, under or by virtue of any other title
or chapter of this code or any other ordinance or resolution of the city. Any references made
or contained in any other title or chapter of this code to any licenses, license taxes, fees or
charges, or to any schedule of license fees, shall be deemed to refer to the licenses, license
taxes, fees or charges, or schedule of license fees, provided for in other titles or chapters of
this code.

5.12.050 Payment of tax does not authorize unlawful business.

(A)	The payment of a cannabis tax required by this chapter, and its acceptance by the city, shall
not entitle any person to carry on any Cannabis business unless the person has complied with
all of the requirements of this code and all other applicable laws, nor to carry on any
Cannabis business in any building or on any premises in the event that such building or
premises are situated in a zone or locality in which the conduct of such Cannabis business is
in violation of any law.

(B)	No tax paid under the provisions of this chapter shall be construed as authorizing the conduct
or continuance of any illegal or unlawful business, or any business in violation of any
ordinance of the city.

5.12.060 Payment - Location.

The tax imposed under this chapter shall be paid to the Administrator in the Marysville
Administrative Services Department on or before the prescribed date during regular city
business hours.

5

5.12.070 Amount of cannabis tax owed.

(A)	Every person, whether it is a “not for profit,” “a nonprofit,” or a “Non-Profit
Organization” as defined in this Section, or a for-profit entity who is engaged in
business as a Marijuana Dispensary in the city shall pay an annual Cannabis
Business Tax on medical marijuana and non-medical marijuana, where permissible by both
state and local law. The initial tax shall be set at five percent (5%) of the gross receipts
annually. The City Council may by ordinance increase any such tax rate from
time to time, not to exceed the maximum tax rate of fifteen percent (15%) on
gross receipts.

(B)	Every person whether it is a “not for profit,” “a nonprofit,” or a Non-Profit
Organization” as defined in this Section, or a for-profit entity who is engaged in a
Commercial Cannabis Cultivation Business in the city shall pay an annual Cannabis
Business Tax on medical marijuana and non-medical marijuana where it is permissible by both
state and local law. The initial tax shall be set at a rate of fifteen dollars ($15) per square
foot of canopy space utilized within the same fully enclosed and secure
structure housing the marijuana dispensary in connection with the cultivation of
marijuana and the City Council may by ordinance increase any such tax rate
from time to time, not to exceed the maximum tax rate of twenty-five dollars ($25)
per square foot. Beginning on January 1, 2020 and on January 1 of each
succeeding year thereafter, the amount of each tax imposed by this Section shall
be adjusted up to the equivalent to the most recent change in the State of
California Department of Industrial Relations (or successor agency) in the
annual average of the Consumer Price Index (“CPI”) for all urban consumers
(California); if the City Council by ordinance increases any such tax however
related to the “CPI,” no adjustment shall decrease any tax imposed by this
Section.

I

(C)	The Cannabis Business Tax on Marijuana Dispensaries and Commercial
Cannabis Cultivation businesses shall become effective on July 1, 2016.

5.12.080 Payment - Time limits.

The cannabis tax imposed by this chapter shall be due and payable as follows:

(A)	Each person owing a Cannabis Business Tax as a Cultivation Facility under this chapter shall,
on or before the 15 th day of each month following the end of each calendar quarter,
prepare a tax statement arid remit to the Administrator on the total square footage of
canopy space subject to the tax. The square footage tax due shall be paid based on the
type of cultivation permits issued by the state and/or by the City. The tax will not be
prorated or adjusted for reduction in the square footage utilized by the business without
prior authorization in writing from the Administrator. Each business shall pay on or
before the 15th day of each month following the end of each quarter, with four equal
installments of the annual tax due. The City may, at its discretion, determine other
methodologies in determining the payment of such tax in order to promulgate collection
of said tax in order to reduce the burden of collection, which may also include the form
of payment in which the City may accept for such tax.

(B)	Each person owing a Cannabis Business Tax as a Dispensary under this chapter shall prepare
and submit a tax statement to the Administrator with the amount of tax owed as determined
by this Chapter or as adopted by ordinance by the City Council. Payment for such tax shall
be made on or before the 15th day of each month following the end of each quarter, with
four equal installments of the annual tax due. The City may at its discretion determine
other methodologies in determining the payment of such tax in order to promulgate
collection of said tax in order to reduce the burden of collection, which may also
include the form of payment in which the City may accept for such tax.

(C)	All tax statements shall be completed on forms authorized by the Administrator.

(D)	Tax statements and payments for all outstanding taxes owed the City are immediately due to
the Administrator upon cessation of business for any reason.

5.12.090 Payments and communications made by mail - Proof of timely submittal.

Whenever any payment, statement, report, request or other communication received by the
Administrator is received after the time prescribed by this chapter for the receipt thereof, but
there is an envelope bearing a postmark showing that it was mailed on or prior to the date
prescribed in this chapter for the receipt thereof, or whenever the Administrator is furnished
substantial proof that the payment, statement, report, request or other communication was in
fact, deposited in the United States mail on or prior to the date prescribed for receipt thereof,
the Administrator may regard such payment, statement, report, request or other
communication as having been timely received. If the due day falls on Saturday, Sunday or a
recognized government holiday, the due date shall be the next regular business day on which
the City is open to the public.

5.12.100 Payment-When taxes deemed delinquent.

Unless otherwise specifically provided under other provisions of this chapter, the taxes
required to be paid pursuant to this chapter shall be deemed delinquent, if not paid on or
before the due date specified in Section 5.12.080.

5.12.110 Notice not required by city.

The Administrator is not required to send a delinquency or other notice or bill to any person
subject to the provisions of this chapter and failure to send such notice or bill shall not affect
the validity of any tax or penalty due under the provisions of this chapter.

5.12.120 Payment - Penalty for delinquency.

(A)	Any person who fails or refuses to pay any Cannabis Business Tax required to be paid
pursuant to this chapter on or before the due date, shall pay penalties and interest as follows:

(1)	A penalty equal to twenty-five percent of the amount of the tax, in addition to the amount of
the tax, plus interest on the unpaid tax calculated from the due date of the tax at a rate
established by resolution of the City Council; and

(2)	An additional penalty equal to twenty-five percent of the amount of the tax, if the tax remains
unpaid for a period exceeding one calendar month beyond the due date, plus interest on the
unpaid tax and on the unpaid penalties, calculated at the rate established by resolution of the
City Council.

7

(3)	Interest shall be applied at the monthly rate on the 16th day of the month, and will continue to
accrue monthly on the tax and penalty until the balance is paid in full.

(B)	Whenever a check is submitted in payment of a Cannabis Business Tax and the check is
subsequently returned unpaid by the bank upon which the check is drawn, and the check is
not redeemed prior to the due date, the taxpayer will be liable for the tax amount due, plus the
return check fee, penalties and interest as provided for in this section, and any amount allowed
under state law.

(C)	The Cannabis Business Tax due shall be that amount due and payable from the first date
on which the person was engaged in Cannabis business in the City, together with applicable
penalties and interest calculated in accordance with Subsection(A) above.

5.12.130 Waiver of penalties.

The Administrator may waive the first and second penalties of twenty-five percent each
imposed upon any person if:

(A)	The person provides evidence satisfactory to the Administrator that failure to pay timely was
due to circumstances beyond the control of the person and occurred notwithstanding the exercise
of ordinary care and the absence of willful neglect, and the person paid the delinquent
Cannabis Business Tax and accrued interest owed the City prior to applying to the
Administrator for a waiver.

(B)	The waiver provisions specified in this subsection shall not apply to interest accrued on the
delinquent tax and a waiver shall be granted only once during any twenty-four-month period.

5.12.140 Refunds - Credits.

(A)	No refund shall be made of any tax collected pursuant to this chapter, except as provided in
Section 5.12.150.

(B)	No refund of any tax collected pursuant to this chapter shall be made because of the
discontinuation, dissolution or other termination of a business.

(C)	Any person entitled to a refund of taxes paid pursuant to this chapter may elect in writing to
have such refund applied as a credit against such person's Cannabis Business Taxes for the
next calendar quarter.

5.12.150 Refunds and procedures.

(A)	Whenever the amount of any Cannabis Business Tax, penalty, or interest has been overpaid,
paid more than once, or has been erroneously collected, or received by the City under this
chapter, it may be refunded to the claimant who paid the tax provided that a written claim for
refund is filed with the Administrator within thirty (30) days of the date the tax was
originally due and payable.

(B)	The Administrator or the Administrator's authorized agent shall have the right to examine and
audit all the books and business records of the claimant in order to determine the eligibility of
the claimant to the claimed refund. No claim for refund shall be allowed if the claimant

refuses to allow such examination of claimant's books and business records after request by
the Administrator to do so.

(C)	In the event that the Cannabis Business Tax was erroneously paid and the error is attributable
to the City, the City shall refund the amount of tax erroneously paid within ninety (90)
days from when the error was identified. No interest will be paid by the City on any
amount refunded to the business.

5.12.160 Exemptions - Application - Issuance conditions.

Any person desiring to claim exemption from the payment of the tax set forth in this
chapter shall make application upon forms prescribed by the Administrator and shall
furnish such information and make such affidavits as may be required by the
Administrator.

5.12.170 Exemptions - General.

Except as may be otherwise specifically provided in this chapter, the terms hereof shall not
be deemed or construed to apply to any person when imposition of the tax upon that
person would violate the Constitution of the United States or that of the State of California
or preemptive federal or state law.

5.12.180 Exemptions - Occasional transactions.

The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to persons having no fixed place of business
within the City, and who come into the City for the purpose of transacting a specific
item of business at the request of a specific patient, client or customer, provided that such
person does not come into the City for the purpose of transacting business on more than
five (5) days during any calendar year. For any person who does not have a fixed place
of business within the City, who comes into the City for the purpose of transacting
business and who is not exempt as provided in this section, the Cannabis Business Tax
payable by such person may be apportioned by the Administrator in accordance with
Section 5.12.210.

5.12.190 Enforcement - Duties of Tax Administrator and Police Department.

It shall be the duty of the Administrator or his/her designee to enforce each and all of the
provisions of this chapter, and the police department shall render such assistance in the
enforcement of this chapter as may from time to time be required by the Administrator.

5.12.200 Rules and regulations.

For purposes of apportionment as may be required by law and for purposes of
administration and enforcement of this chapter generally, the Administrator may, in
consultation with the City Attorney and with the concurrence of the City Manager, from
time to time promulgate administrative rules and regulations.

5.12.210 Apportionment.

(A) None of the tax provided for by this chapter shall be applied so as to occasion an undue
burden upon interstate commerce or be in violation of the equal protection and due process
clauses of the Constitutions of the United States or the State of California.

(B)	If any case where a Cannabis tax is believed by a taxpayer to place an undue burden upon
interstate commerce or be in violation of such constitutional clauses, the taxpayer may
apply to the Administrator for an adjustment of the tax. It shall be the taxpayer's obligation
to request in writing for an adjustment within thirty (30) days after the date of payment
of the tax. Ifthe taxpayer does not request in writing, within thirty (30) days from the
date of payment, then the taxpayer shall be conclusively deemed to have waived any
adjustment for that year and all prior years.

(C)	The taxpayer shall, by sworn statement and supporting testimony, show the method of
business and the gross volume of business and such other information as the
Administrator may deem necessary in order to determine the extent, if any, of such undue
burden or violation. The Administrator shall then conduct an investigation, and shall fix as
the tax for the taxpayer an amount that is reasonable and nondiscriminatory, or if the tax
has already been paid, shall order a refund of the amount over and above the tax so fixed.
In fixing the tax to be charged, the Administrator shall have the power to base the tax
upon a percentage of gross receipts or any other measure which will assure that the tax
assessed shall be uniform with that assessed on businesses of like nature, so long as the
amount assessed does not exceed the tax as prescribed by this chapter.

(D)	Should the Administrator determine that the gross receipt measure of tax to be the proper
basis, the Administrator may require the taxpayer to submit a sworn statement of the gross
receipts and pay the amount of tax as determined by the Administrator.

\

5.12.220 Audit and examination of records and equipment.

(A)	The Administrator shall have the authority to audit and examine all books and records of
persons engaged in Cannabis business including both state and federal income tax returns,
California sales tax returns, or other evidence documenting the gross receipts of persons
engaged in Cannabis business, and, where necessary, all equipment, of any person
engaged in Cannabis business in the City, for the purpose of ascertaining the amount of
Cannabis Business Tax, if any, required to be paid by the provisions hereof, and for the
purpose of verifying any statements or any item thereof when filed by any person
pursuant 5.12.250 through 5.12.270 of any.taxes estimated to be due.

(B)	It shall be the duty of every person liable for the collection and payment to the City of any
tax imposed by this chapter to keep and preserve, for a period of at least five years, all
records as may be necessary to determine the amount of such tax as he or she may have
been liable for the collection of and payment to the City, which records the Administrator
shall have the right to inspect at all reasonable times.

5.12.230 Tax deemed debt to city.

The amount of any tax, penalties and interest imposed by the provisions of this chapter
shall be deemed a debt to the City and any person carrying on any Cannabis business,
without first having paid such tax, shall be liable in an action in the name of the City
brought relating to the debt, shall be held exclusively in a state court in the County of Yuba
for the amount of the tax, and penalties and interest imposed on such business.

10

5.12.240 Deficiency determinations.

If the Administrator is not satisfied that any statement filed as required under the
provisions of this chapter is correct, or that the amount of tax is not correctly computed,
the Administrator may compute and determine the amount to be paid and make a
deficiency determination upon the basis of the facts contained in the statement or upon the
basis of any information in his or her possession or that may come into his or her
possession within five years of the date the tax was originally due and payable. One or
more deficiency determinations of the amount of tax due for a period or periods may be
made. When a person discontinues engaging in a business, a deficiency determination
may be made at any time within five years thereafter, as to any liability arising from
engaging in such business whether or not a deficiency determination is issued prior to the
date the tax would otherwise be due. Whenever a deficiency determination is made, a
notice shall be given to the person concerned in the same manner as notices of assessment
are given under Sections 5.12.250 through 5.12.270.

5.12.250 Tax assessment - Authorized When - Nonpayment - Fraud.

(A)	Under any of the following circumstances, the Administrator may make and give notice of
an assessment of the amount of tax owed by a person under this chapter at any time:

(1)	If the person has not filed any statement required under the provisions of this chapter;

(2)	If the person has not paid any tax due under the provisions of this chapter;

(3)	If the person has not, after demand by the Administrator, filed a corrected statement, or
furnished to the Administrator adequate substantiation of the information contained in a
statement already filed, or paid any additional amount of tax due under the provisions of this
chapter; If the Administrator determines that the nonpayment of any Cannabis Business Tax
due under this chapter is due to fraud, a penalty of twenty-five percent of the amount of the tax
shall be added thereto, in addition to penalties and interest otherwise stated in this chapter.

(B)	The notice of assessment shall separately set forth the amount of any tax known by the
Administrator to be due or estimated by the Administrator, after consideration of all
information within the Administrator's knowledge concerning the business and activities of
the person assessed, to be due under each applicable section of this chapter, and shall include
the amount of any penalties or interest accrued on each amount to the date of the notice of
assessment.

5.12.260	Tax assessment - Notice requirements.

The notice of assessment shall be served upon the person either by handing it to him or her
personally, or by a deposit of the notice in the United States mail, postage prepaid thereon,
addressed to the person at the address of the location of the business or to such other address
as he or she shall register with the Administrator for the purpose of receiving notices, provided
under this chapter; or, should the person have no address registered with the Administrator for
such purpose, then to such person's last known address. For the purposes of this section, a
service by mail is complete at the time of deposit in the United States mail.

5.12.270 Tax assessment - Hearing - Application and determination.

Within ten days after the date of service, the person may apply in writing to the Administrator
for a hearing on the assessment. If application for a hearing before the City is not made within
the time herein prescribed, the tax assessed by the Administrator shall become final and

11

conclusive. Within ninety (90) days of the receipt of any such application for hearing, the
Administrator shall cause the matter to be set for hearing before him or her not later than sixty
(60) days after the receipt of the application, unless a later date is agreed to by the
Administrator and the person requesting the hearing. Notice of such hearing shall be given by
the Administrator to the person requesting such hearing not later than ten (10) days prior to
such hearing. At such hearing said applicant may appear and offer evidence why the
assessment as made by the Administrator should not be confirmed and fixed as the tax due.
After such hearing, the Administrator shall determine and reassess the proper tax to be
charged and shall give written notice to the person in the manner prescribed in Section

5.12.260	for giving notice of assessment.

5.12.280 Conviction for chapter violation - Taxes not waived.

The conviction and punishment of any person for failure to pay the required tax shall not
excuse or exempt such person from any civil action for the tax debt unpaid at the time of such
conviction. No civil action shall prevent a criminal prosecution for any violation of the
provisions of this chapter or of any state law requiring the payment of all taxes.

5.12.290 Violation deemed misdemeanor - Penalty.

Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter or any regulation or . rule passed in
accordance herewith, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof
shall be punishable by a fine of not more than five hundred dollars or by imprisonment for a
period of not more than six months, or by both such fine and imprisonment.

5.12.300 Severability.

Should any provision of this chapter, or its application to any person or circumstance, be
determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be unlawful, unenforceable or otherwise
void, that determination shall have no effect on any other provision of this chapter or the
application of this chapter to any other person or circumstance and, to that end, the provisions
hereof are severable.

5.12.310 Effect of state and federal reference - authorization.

(A)	Unless specifically provided otherwise, any reference to a state or federal statute in this
chapter shall mean such statute as it may be amended from time to time, provided that such
reference to a statute herein shall not include any amendment thereto, or to any change of
interpretation thereto by a state or federal agency or court of law with the duty to interpret such
law, to the extent that such amendment or change of interpretation would, under California
law, require voter approval of such amendment or interpretation, or to the extent that such
change would result in a tax decrease. To the extent voter approval would otherwise be
required or a tax decrease would result, the prior version of the statute (or interpretation) shall
remain applicable; for any application or situation that would not require voter approval or
result in a decrease of a tax, provisions of the amended statute (or new interpretation) shall be
applicable to the maximum possible extent.

(B)	To the extent that the city ’ s authorization to collect or impose any tax imposed under this
chapter is expanded as a result of changes in state or federal law, no amendment or
modification of this chapter shall be required to conform the tax to those changes, and the tax
shall be imposed and collected to the full extent of the authorization up to the full amount
of the tax imposed under this chapter.

5.12.320 Remedies cumulative.

All remedies and penalties prescribed by this chapter or which are available under any
other provision of law or equity, including but not limited to the California False Claims
Act (Government Code Section 12650 et seq.) and the California Unfair Practices Act
(Business and Professions Code Section 17070 et seq.), are cumulative. The use of one or
more remedies by the City shall not bar the use of any other remedy for the purpose of
enforcing the provisions of this chapter.

5.12.330 Amendment or repeal.

Chapter 5.12 of the Marysville Municipal Code may be repealed or amended by the
City Council without a vote of the people. However, as required by Chapter XIIIC of
the California Constitution, voter approval is required for any amendment provision that
would increase the rate of any tax levied pursuant to this chapter. The people of the City
of Marysville affirm that the following actions shall not constitute an increase of the
rate of a tax:

(A)	The restoration of the rate of the tax to a rate that is no higher than that set by this chapter,
if the City Council has acted to reduce the rate of the tax;

(B)	An action that interprets or clarifies the methodology of the tax, or any definition
applicable to the tax, so long as interpretation or clarification (even if contrary to some
prior interpretation or clarification) is not inconsistent with the language of this chapter;

(C)	The establishment of a class of person that is exempt or excepted from the tax or the
discontinuation of any such exemption or exception (other than the discontinuation of an
exemption or exception specifically set forth in this chapter); or

(D)	The collection of the tax imposed by this chapter, even if the City had,'for some period of
time, failed to collect the tax.

Section II. Severability. Should any provision of this Ordinance, or its application to any
person or circumstance, be determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be unlawful,
unenforceable or otherwise void, that determination shall have no effect on any other provision
of this Ordinance or the application of this Ordinance to any other person or circumstance and, to
that end, the provisions hereof are severable.

Section III. California Environmental Quality Act Requirements. This Ordinance is exempt
from the California Environmental Quality Act, Public Resources Code Section 21000et seq.,
including without limitations. Public Resources Code Section 21605, CEQA Guidelines
15378(b)(4) and 15061(b)(3), as it can be seen with certainty that there is no possibility that the
activity authorized herein may have a significant effect on the environment.

Section IV. Majority Approval; Effective Date. This Ordinance shall be effective only if
approved by a majority of the voters voting thereon and after the vote is declared by the City
Council. The effective date of this Ordinance shall be July 1,2016.

Section V. Council Amendments. The City Council of the City of Marysville is hereby
authorized to amend Chapter 5.12 of the Marysville Municipal Code as adopted by this

13

Ordinance in any manner that does not increase the tax rate above the maximum rate specified
for each category of business or otherwise constitutes a tax increase for which voter approval is
required by Article XIII C of the California Constitution.

Section VI. The City Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to cause copies of this ordinance
to be posted in three (3) prominent places in the City of Marysville within fifteen (15) days after
the adoption of the ordinance.

The foregoing ordinance was introduced before the City Council of the City of Marysville,
County of Yuba, at the meeting of the City Council of said City, held on the 21st day of June,
2016, and finally adopted at the regular meeting of said Council held on the 19th day of July,
2016, by the following vote:

AYES:	Bill	Simmons,	Jim	Kitchen,	Christopher	Pedigo,	and	Dale	Whitmore

NOES:	None

ABSENT:	Ricky	Samayoa

ABSTAIN: None

ATTEST:	CITY	OF	MARYSVILLE,	CALIFORNIA

By:

Billie J. Fangman, City Clerk

APPROVED AS TO FORM AND
LEGAL SUFFICIENCY

14