Kings County, California, Sales Tax for
Public Safety Services, Measure K
(November 2016)

Ballot question

The following question appeared on the ballot:^

Shall the Public Safety % cent Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance be adopted? The
County and its four cities anticipate the measure will permanently generate
approximately $4 million annually to be used exclusively for the police and fire
departments of these five municipalities. The tax would not be levied if the % cent
Proposition 30 sales tax is extended by the state beyond January 1, 2017. ^

Impartial analysis

The following impartial analysis of the measure was prepared by the office of the Kings County

Counsel:

The current statewide sales and use tax rate is 7.5 percent on most retail transactions. In
2012, California voters approved Proposition 30 (“Prop. 30”), which increased the
state’s sales and use tax by lA percent through December 31, 2016. If Prop. 30 is not
extended, the statewide sales and use tax rate will decrease to 7.25 percent beginning
January 1, 2017. This measure seeks approval of a % percent transactions and use tax
for local public safety purposes, that will go into effect in 2017, unless Prop. 30 is
extended. Thus, if the measure passes and Prop. 30 is not extended, the current 7.5
percent rate will continue in Kings County with lA percent permanently going to local
public safety purposes. This proposal requires approval by two-thirds of the electorate.
(Due to the timing of the election, if the measure passes and the Prop. 30 sales tax is
not extended, the tax rate will decrease to 7.25 in Kings County temporarily between
January 1 and April 1, 2017.)

The revenues of this tax would be shared among the County and the four cities within
Kings County according to population. Each municipality would use its share of the
revenues for public safety purposes, as detailed in an expenditure plan agreed to among
the municipalities. Because the proposed tax is a special tax, state law requires that tax
revenues be spent only as provided in the plan. Paragraph 8 of the agreement
containing the expenditure plan describes the creation of a citizen’s oversight
committee to review and provide feedback on expenditures of tax revenues.

The expenditure plan requires the County to split its share of proceeds between the
Sheriffs Office and County Fire Department. The Sheriffs Office would use its share
to hire deputies to bolster patrol staff and in the County jail. The Fire Department
would use its share toward eliminating one person staffing at County fire stations. After
meeting specified staffing goals, additional funding could be allocated by the Board of
Supervisors to build or rehabilitate facilities to house Sheriff or fire operations, to
purchase or replace frontline sheriff or fire equipment, or for other public safety
programs relating to crime prevention and fire safety. The city councils of each of the
four cities would develop an annual plan as part of the budget process, allocating funds
for similar public safety purposes. The measure includes language preventing any
jurisdiction from using the tax revenues to supplant existing expenditures.

Local transactions and use taxes are collected by the State Board of Equalization and
remitted to local agencies after deducting administrative fees to cover the state’s
collection costs. There are minor differences between local transactions and use taxes
and sales taxes. ^

—Kings County Counsel111