MEASURE C
LAFAYETTE SCHOOL DISTRICT

To upgrade aging neighborhood elementary and middle
schools, avoid overcrowding, and modernize classrooms
for today’s curriculum, including math, science, technology
and arts, shall Lafayette School District repair or replace
deteriorated roofs, plumbing, and electrical systems; update
classrooms, labs and instructional technology; improve
school safety/security: and acquire, construct, renovate,
equip sites/facilities, by issuing $70,000,000 in bonds at legal
rates, with independent citizen oversight, no administrators’
salaries, and all funds dedicated locally to Lafayette TK-8
schools?

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF
MEASURE C

The California Constitution provides that school
districts may issue bondsforthe construction, reconstruction,
rehabilitation or replacement of school facilities, including the
furnishing and equipping of school facilities or the acquisition
or lease of real property for school facilities, with the approval
of 55% of the voters voting at an election for that purpose.

By resolution, the Lafayette School District
has proposed that bonds of the District be issued in an
amount up to $70,000,000. This measure provides that
proceeds from the sale of the bonds will generally be
used to “repair or replace deteriorated roofs, plumbing,
and electrical systems; update classrooms, labs and
instructional technology; improve school safety/security;
and acquire, construct, renovate, equip sites/facilities.”
The specific projects are set forth in the bond project list
attached to the resolution of the Board of Trustees. The
measure provides that a citizens’ oversight committee will
be established to ensure that bond proceeds are properly
expended and that annual performance and financial
audits will be conducted. The measure further provides
that bond proceeds will only be used for the purposes
specified in the measure, and not for any other purpose.

Approval of this measure authorizes the levy of ad
valorem taxes upon taxable property to repay the bonded
indebtedness, both principal and interest, in each year that
bonds are outstanding. The Lafayette School District has
prepared a Tax Rate Statement, which represents the school
district’s best estimates of the property tax rates required to
service the bonds. The estimated average annual tax rate
required to be levied to fund the bonds is expected to be $28.52
per$100,000 of assessed valuation overthe life of the bonds.

Approval of the measure does not guarantee that
the proposed project or projects in the District that are the
subject of bonds under the measure will be funded beyond
the local revenues generated by the measure. The proposed
project or projects may assume the receipt of matching
state funds, which could be subject to appropriation by the
Legislature or approval of a statewide bond measure.

A “yes” vote authorizes the issuance of the bonds
and the levy of taxes as estimated in the Tax Rate Statement
to repay the bonded indebtedness. A “yes” vote by 55%
of the voters within the District voting on the measure
is required for passage of this measure. A “no” vote on
this measure disapproves the issuance of the bonds
and the levy of the taxes for the bonded indebtedness.

CC-9002-X1

TAX RATE STATEMENT FOR
MEASURE C

An election will be held in the Lafayette School
District (the “District”) on June 7,2016, to authorize the sale
of up to $70,000,000 in bonds of the District for the specific
school facilities projects listed in the Bond Project List
established by the District, as described in the proposition.

If the bonds are authorized, the District expects to sell
the bonds in several series. Principal and interest on the
bonds will be payable from the proceeds of tax levies made
upon the taxable property in the District. The following
information is provided in compliance with Sections 9400-
9404 of the Elections Code of the State of California.

1.	The best estimate of the tax rate that would

be required to be	levied to	fund the	bonds	during

the first fiscal year	after the	first sale	of the	bonds,

based	on	estimated	assessed	valuations	available

at	the	time	of	filing	this	statement,	is	$29.50	per

$100,000 of assessed valuation in fiscal year 2016-17.

2.	The best estimate of the tax rate that would

be required to be	levied to	fund the	bonds	during

the first fiscal year	after the	last sale	of the	bonds,

based	on	estimated	assessed	valuations	available

at	the	time	of	filing	this	statement,	is	$29.50	per

$100,000 of assessed valuation in fiscal year 2020-21.

3.	The best estimate of the highest tax rate

that would be required to be levied to fund the bonds,
based	on	estimated	assessed	valuations	available

at	the	time	of	filing	this	statement,	is	$29.50	per

$100,000 of assessed valuation in fiscal year 2016-17.

4.	The District’s best estimate of the average

tax rate that would be required to be levied to fund
the bonds, based on estimated assessed valuations
available at the time of filing this statement, is $28.52
per $100,000 of assessed valuation for fiscal year
2016-17 through	and	including fiscal	year 2049-50.

5.	The best estimate of the total debt service,
including principal and interest, that would be required
to be repaid if all the bonds are issued and sold is
$157,362,590 ($70,000,000 in principal and $87,362,590
in interest). This estimate is based on assumptions
regarding future assessed values of taxable property
located in the District, future interest rates and the
term, timing, structure, and amount of the bonds.

Voters should note that such estimated tax rates
are specific to the repayment of bonds issued under
this authorization and are and will be in addition to tax
rates levied in connection with other bond authorizations
approved or to be approved by the District or any other
overlapping public agency.

Voters should also note that estimated tax rates

are based on the ASSESSED VALUE of taxable property
on Contra Costa County’s official tax rolls, not on the
property’s market value. Property owners should consult
their own property tax bills to determine their property’s
assessed value and any applicable tax exemptions.

Attention of all voters is directed to the fact that
the foregoing information is based upon the District’s
projections and estimates only, which are not binding upon
the District. The actual tax rates and the years in which they
will apply may vary from those presently estimated, due to
variations from these estimates in the timing of bond sales,
the amount of bonds sold and market interest rates at the
time of each sale, and actual assessed valuations over the
term of repayment of the bonds. The dates of sale and the
amount of bonds sold at any given time will be determined
by the District based on need for construction funds and
other factors. The actual interest rates at which the bonds
will be sold will depend on the bond market at the time of
each sale. Actual future assessed valuation will depend
upon the amount and value of taxable property within the
District as determined by the Contra Costa County Assessor
in the annual assessment and the equalization process.

Dated: March 9, 2016.

Superintendent
Lafayette School District

CC-9002-X2

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
MEASURE C

ARGUMENT AGAINST
MEASURE C

VOTE YES on Measure C to protect the outstanding
quality of education provided to children attending
Transitional Kindergarten through eighth grade (TK-8)
at Burton Valley, Happy Valley, Lafayette, and Springhill
Elementary Schools, and Stanley Middle School.

Our Lafayette School District elementary and middle schools
have educated generations of local children. However,
they have grown old - really old. Most are now 50-70
years old, and need significant repairs and upgrades. Only
one of the five schools received upgrades over 16 years
ago. After constant use for many years, the need is great.

Measure C provides a prudent plan to address Lafayette
School District’s most critical facility needs. NO other
funding currently exists to properly upgrade these facilities.

Measure C will:

•	Repair/Replace leaky roofs, and deteriorated
plumbing, HVAC, lighting, and electrical systems

•	Upgrade technology infrastructure to keep pace
with 21st century learning

•	Modernize 50+ year-old, outdated classrooms, labs,
and equipment

•	Accommodate enrollment growth and instructional
needs by constructing modern, flexible classrooms at
Stanley Middle School, and reconfiguring orconstructing
classrooms on the District’s four elementary school
sites

•	Improve School Safety - lighting, fence/gate repairs,
alarm systems, play equipment and pick-up/drop-off
zones.

Taxpayer protections are REQUIRED. ALL funds MUST
stay in Lafayette. By law, these funds CAN’T be taken by
the State. NO funds are allowed for administrators' salaries
or pensions. Independent Citizens' Oversight, mandatory
audits and public reports will ensure funds are spent properly.

Whether or not you have school-age children, protecting the
localqualityofeducationisasmartinvestment. Great schools
protectgreatproperty valuesandkeepourcommunity strong.

Please join teachers, parents, business and civic leaders,
and residents in every neighborhood of Lafayette who
are VOTING YES on C to ensure safe, modern, excellent
schools for years to come.

The 1995 bond isn't paid, now politicians want to go
deeper into debt, to re-fix the last fix. The debt outlived the
repairs.

Outside Consultants, say what voters will approve &
what amount. The reason for separating this tax, from the
2014 tax.

What interest rates are we being gouged? I gave the
administrators ten questions. Time is expiring, with no reply.
Ignorance is bliss.

We will pay many times more in interest, than actual
construction costs.

The online article about this, is called: The bank,
the school and the 38 year loan. By Melody Petersen.
Melody writes about ignorant, unaccountable politicians
& administrators, consultant driven debt & misleading
advertising, funded by architects, contractors, consultants
& lawyers. Anything good for you, doesn't need advertising.
Expect pleading phone calls from administrators, to approve
this 51 year loan.

Politicians claim the roof leaks. Again? Do school
roofs actually leak? This is typical propaganda. Politicians
claimed the roof leaked in 1995. Then installed solar
panels, replaced auditoriums & baseball fields. Then
installed gates, to make the ball fanatics park in the street.
Intelligent administration, would rent the parking lots.

$7,000,000 to the architect. Wow! Add interest too. I
hope the architects, consultants & investment bankers are
giving the foolish politicians a kickback. They really earned
one.

The stupid, lazy, corrupt, insulting, local media,
always publishes propaganda supporting higher taxes.
They will publish letters, calling anyone opposing wasteful
squandering, a greedy child hater. Actually we detest
duplicitous, cowardly, overspending politicians & their
overpaid, arrogant, moronic administrators.

Their propaganda claims there will be someone
from a taxpayer organization, on their citizen's oversight
committee. Ridiculous! Why not put dogs on the oversight
committee?

Ask children this question. What needs replacement at
your school, you want to pay interest on, for the rest of your
life?

Bruce R. Peterson, Private Citizen

VOTE YES on C. www.YESforLafavetteSchools.ora

Mark Mitchell, Mayor, City of Lafayette

Meredith Meade, Parent & President, Lafayette Partners in

Education

Toni McShane, Principal, Lafayette Elementary School,
Happy Valley Grandparent

Ed Stokes, Businessman/Owner, Diablo Foods, 48-Year
Resident

Dana Green, Lafayette Realtor

CC-9002-X3

REBUTTAL TO THE ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
MEASURE C

Ask questions.

Extremely intelligent, generous, involved parents,
who have dealt with district administration, say: ” They are
complete morons. Don't give them one wooden nickel”. How
can $70,000,000 more debt, fix moronic administration?
Impossible!

Administration squandered taxpayers' $253,900, for
two elections. Plus there's a $23,410,000 unfunded pension
liability.

The 1995 bonds costs $27,300,000 originally.
$50,800,000, when paid in 2021. The proposed $70,000,000,
2016 tax, ends in 2050. With an unknown project list and
interest rate.

Available breakdowns for public squandering. Our
incredibly corrupt City's roundabout, cost $200,000 on
planning, for a $2,000,000 project. Their completed
Community Center folly, cost $242,000 for planning. That's
11.67% over construction costs. Architects get the gold
mine. We get the shaft.

Expect signs, junk mail & phone calls, instructing
simpletons how to vote.

Are voters smarter than fifth graders?

What came first? Great location, weather, scenery,
estates & involved parents? Or propagandists praising
schools? Socioeconomics, determine school performance.

Everyone's liability differs, including renters &
merchants.

Propagandists tell childless people to vote for this debt.
They claim it will increase your property value. Ridiculous!
When values go up, your taxes go up. Rents escalate. Why
vote to decrease your bank account? Another economic
downturn, will definitely decrease property values & this
tax's income.

Politicians never get enough. Expect infinite
panhandling.

Children don't care about buildings. They want to be
outdoors. Many like to build forts from junk. If anyone
actually cared about children, they would show them how
to repair their school. Not give them debt.

Bruce R. Peterson, Private Citizen

REBUTTAL TO THE ARGUMENT AGAINST
MEASURE C

The author of the Argument Against Measure C is
misguided. Anyone who has visited our schools recently
would be convinced that Measure C is absolutely needed
and is a sound investment.

Consider these facts:

FACT: Measure C is on the ballot for one purpose - to
obtain authorization for essentials-only upgrades to our four
Lafayette elementary schools and Stanley Middle School.

FACT: After at least five decades of constant use, the
facility needs at Burton Valley, Happy Valley, Lafayette, and
Springhill Elementary Schools, and Stanley Middle School
are REAL and are not going away.

FACT: Measure C is the prudent result of two years of open,
transparent meetings, study and analysis, where every
classroom and learning support space in every school was
evaluated.

FACT:	No other funding exists to complete these

desperately needed upgrades.

FACT: The longer we wait to make repairs, the more
expensive they will be.

FACT:	Independent	Citizens Oversight and mandatory

audits on Measure C will ensure funds are spent as
promised.

FACT: NO funds are allowed for administrators’ salaries,
benefits or pensions.

FACT: Every penny will go to our five neighborhood schools.
Every penny.

The FACTS about Measure C have convinced hundreds
of Lafayette homeowners, local business owners, realtors,
seniors, taxpayers and voters from all parties—in addition
to parents and educators - to VOTE YES on C. We all
agree that protecting our local quality of education is a
smart investmen.

Join us. Protect YOUR investment in Lafayette.

VOTE YES on C.

www.YESforLafayetteSchools.org

Stephenie Teichman, Lafayette Civic Leader

Marechal Duncan, Citizen of the Year, 60 year resident

Patty Gonser, Education Advocate, 25 year resident

Don Tatzin, Lafayette City Council Member

Carol Harris, Elementary Teacher, Former Teacher of the

Year

CC-9002-X4

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE C

Section 1.Specifications of Election Order.
Pursuant to sections 5304, 5322, 15100 et seq., and
section 15266 of the California Education Code, an
election shall be held within the boundaries of the District
on June 7, 2016, for the purpose of submitting to the
registered voters of the District the following proposition:

BOND AUTHORIZATION

By approval of this proposition by at least 55%
of the registered voters voting on the proposition, the
District shall be authorized to issue and sell bonds of up
to $70,000,000 in aggregate principal amount to provide
financing for the specific school facilities projects listed
in the Bond Project List attached hereto as Exhibit A,
subject to all of the accountability safeguards specified
below. Bonds will be issued in one or more series.

ACCOUNTABILITY SAFEGUARDS

The provisions in this section are specifically included
in this proposition in order that the voters and taxpayers of
the District may be assured that their money will be spent
wisely to address specific facilities needs of the District, all
in compliance with the requirements of Article XIII A, section
1 (b)(3) of the State Constitution, and the StrictAccountability
in Local School Construction Bonds Act of 2000 (codified at
section 15264 et seq. of the California Education Code).

Evaluation of Needs. The Board of Trustees
has prepared its Capital Investment Program in order
to evaluate and address all of the facilities needs of
the District, and to determine which projects to finance
from a local bond at this time. The Board of Trustees
hereby certifies that it has evaluated safety, class
size reduction and information technology needs in
developing the Bond Project List contained in Exhibit A.

Independent Citizens’ Oversight Committee.
The Board of Trustees shall establish an independent
Citizens’ Oversight Committee (section 15278 et seq. of
the California Education Code), to ensure bond proceeds
are expended only for the school facilities projects
listed in Exhibit A. The committee shall be established
within 60 days of the date when the results of the
election appear in the minutes of the Board of Trustees.

Annual Performance Audits. The Board of Trustees
shall cause to conduct an annual, independent performance
audit to ensure that the bond proceeds have been expended
only on the school facilities projects listed in Exhibit A.

Annual Financial Audits. The Board of Trustees
shall cause to conduct an annual, independent financial
audit of the bond proceeds until all of those proceeds have
been spent for the school facilities projects listed in Exhibit A.

Special Bond Proceeds Account; Annual Report
to Board. Upon approval of this proposition and the sale
of any bonds approved, the Board of Trustees shall
take actions necessary to establish an account in which
proceeds of the sale of bonds will be deposited. As long
as any proceeds of the bonds remain unexpended, the
Superintendent shall cause a report to be filed with the
Board no later than January 1 of each year, commencing
January 1, 2017, stating (1) the amount of bond proceeds
received and expended in that year, and (2) the status of
any project funded or to be funded from bond proceeds.
The report may relate to the calendar year, fiscal year, or
other appropriate annual period as the Superintendent shall
determine, and may be incorporated into the annual budget,
audit, or other appropriate routine report to the Board.

BOND PROJECT LIST

The Bond Project List attached to this resolution as
Exhibit A shall be considered a part of the ballot proposition,
and shall be reproduced in any official document required
to contain the full statement of the bond proposition.

The Bond Project List, which is an integral part of this
proposition, lists the specific projects the District proposes
to finance with proceeds of the Bonds. Such projects will
be completed as needed. Each project is assumed to
include its share of costs of the election and bond issuance,
architectural, engineering, and similar planning costs,
construction management, and a customary contingency
for unforeseen design and construction costs. The final cost
of each project will be determined as plans are finalized,
construction bids are awarded, and projects are completed.
In addition, certain construction funds expected from
non-bond sources, including State grant funds for eligible
projects, have not yet been secured. Therefore the Board
of Trustees cannot guarantee that the bonds will provide
sufficient funds to allow completion of all listed projects.

FURTHER SPECIFICATIONS

No Administrator Salaries. Proceeds from the
sale of bonds authorized by this proposition shall be used
only for the construction, reconstruction, rehabilitation, or
replacement of school facilities, including the furnishing
and equipping of school facilities, or the acquisition or
lease of real property for school facilities, and not for
any other purpose, including teacher and administrator
salaries and other school operating expenses.

Single Purpose. All of the purposes enumerated in
this proposition shall be united and voted upon as one single
proposition, pursuant to section 15100 of the California
Education Code, and all the enumerated purposes shall
constitute the specific single purpose of the bonds, and
proceeds of the bonds shall be spent only for such purpose,
pursuanttosection 5341 Oofthe California Government Code.

CC-9002-X5

Other Terms of the Bonds. When sold, the bonds
shall bear interest at an annual rate not exceeding the
statutory maximum, and that interest will be made payable
at the time or times permitted by law. The bonds may
be issued and sold in several series, and no bond shall
be made to mature later than shall be permitted by law.

EXHIBIT A

LAFAYETTE SCHOOL DISTRICT

BOND PROJECT LIST

The Board of Trustees of the Lafayette School
District evaluated the District’s critical facility needs over
an 18 month period in 2014-2016, including safety issues,
repair and renovation needs, enrollment trends, class sizes,
instructional best practices, changing education/information
technology needs and other factors, in developing the scope
of capital projects to be undertaken and funded through
the proposed bond program. Prior to preparing the Project
List, the District conducted a comprehensive facilities
assessment, receiving input from teachers, staff, parents,
community members and the public. The Board concluded
upon this comprehensive 18 month study involving
numerous meetings held in public, that the District’s most
critical facilities needs must be addressed immediately in
order to maintain the local quality of education; and further,
that the longer the District waits to address these needs,
the more pressing and expensive to repair its facilities
needs will be. The District’s Project List therefore includes:

REPAIR, RENOVATE OR REPLACE AGING,
DETERIORATED BUILDING SYSTEMS &
INFRASTRUCTURE THROUGHOUT THE SCHOOL
DISTRICT:

ALL Schools/Sites: Stanley Middle School,
Burton Valley Elementary School, Happy Valley
Elementary School, Lafayette Elementary School,
Springhill Elementary School, and the District Office.

School Site Safety Projects

•	Upgrade/replace safety systems as required,
including fire alarm systems, intrusion and security
systems, telephones and communication systems
as required to improve school security and safety.

•	Renovate, repair, resurface and/or expand parking
lots, student drop-off/pick-up areas, walkways,
perimeter fencing, and exterior lighting to improve
safety, security and accessibility.

•	Upgrade/replace aging playground equipment with
new, age-appropriate, code compliant playground
equipment and safety surfacing.

Core Infrastructure Projects

•	Repair or replace aging/deteriorated roofing,
flashing, and waterproofing systems where

necessary due to aging facilities or known water
leaks.

•	Repair or replace lighting, heating, ventilation,
and air conditioning systems with energy efficient
systems where necessary due to aging equipment.

•	Repair and upgrade site utilities, such as storm
water, sewer, water, and electrical services.

General Modernization

•	Repair, replace and/or improve classrooms, school
buildings and other structures to eliminate/mitigate
structural deficiencies or dry rot, termite, mold or
similar damage or hazards.

•	Repair or replace worn or outdated classroom and
building interiors including walls, ceilings, and floor
coverings, cabinetry, fixtures, doors and hardware.

•	Renovate student and staff restrooms for health
and ADA code compliance.

•	Renovate aging, deteriorating building exteriors,
siding, paint, windows and doors and hardware.

•	Improvement, correction, repair or renovation of
grounds, buildings and structures to comply with,
local, state and federal building, health, safety,
access and other related requirements, including
seismic safety requirements, Field Act requirements
and access requirements of the Americans with
Disabilities Act (ADA).

•	When practical and cost efficient, include in
projects renewable energy and/or energy-saving
systems, improvements and equipment, including
electricity generation and distribution systems,
purchase of existing systems currently installed
under power purchase agreements, and/or water
heating systems, natural light improvements,
upgraded insulation, efficient lighting, windows
and window coverings, shade structures, energy
management and conservation systems, and other
passive technologies, and structures to support
such systems, improvements and equipment and
related infrastructure.

•	Improve, repair or renovate grounds and facilities
as required to make such grounds and facilities
accessible to the disabled.

•	Make improvements to playfields, grass areas,
hard courts and playgrounds. Add outdoor shade
structures.

TECHNOLOGY UPGRADES THROUGHOUT THE
SCHOOL DISTRICT:

ALL Schools/Sites: Stanley Middle School,
Burton Valley Elementary School, Happy Valley
Elementary School, Lafayette Elementary School,
Springhill Elementary School, and the District Office.

•	Renovate/upgrade network and technology,
including the acquisition and installation of
technology equipment, improved electrical

CC-9002-X6

capacity and technology infrastructure, classroom
and library technology, and teaching equipment.

SITE-SPECIFIC PROJECTS

(FOR REPAIR, UPGRADE, REPLACEMENT, or ADDITION
at/to EXISTING SITES)

Stanley Middle School

•	Constructa new classroom building toaccommodate
enrollment growth and replace portable classrooms
that will provide a modern educational setting and
equipment needed to teach core subjects like math,
science, engineering and technology.

•	Remodel or replace the aging special education
and home economics classroom building.

•	Remove portable classrooms from field, and
relocate to another site, sell, or convert to support
space

•	Modify and improve parking and circulation.

Stanley projects if additional funds become
available (Possible sources of additional funds
include unused contingency, favorable bids, State
matching funds):

•	Add a lunch kiosk to improve circulation and
accommodate growth.

•	Expand, remodel or reconstruct the school
library.

•	Expand, remodel or reconstruct the gym and
locker room.

Burton Valley Elementary School

•	Construct new kindergarten classrooms to replace
undersized and aging kindergarten classrooms

•	Renovate or reconstruct undersized fifth grade
classrooms.

•	Provide additional staff restroom facilities.

Burton Valley projects if additional funds
become available (Possible sources of additional
funds include unused contingency, favorable bids,
State matching funds):

•	Replace all portable classroom buildings with
permanent or upgraded modular buildings.

•	Expand the kindergarten play yard.

•	Construct upgraded modular classrooms
or renovate existing portables for science,
technology, music or other instructional support
space.

•	Renovate the multi-use room for improved
sound quality, lighting, and architectural
finishes.

•	Upgrade the kitchen.

Happy Valley Elementary School

•	Remove aging portable science lab, computer lab,
and instructional support spaces and construct
new kindergarten classrooms adjacent to the

kindergarten play yard.

•	Construct upgraded modular classrooms or
renovate existing portables for science, technology,
music, or other instructional support space.

•	Add portables or upgraded modular classrooms as
required to accommodate enrollment growth.

•	Construct covered walkways and awnings at
selective locations to provide rain cover.

•	Renovate drop-off/pick-up areas and increase
parking.

Happy Valley projects if additional funds
become available (Possible sources of additional
funds include unused contingency, favorable bids,
State matching funds):

•	Construct additional restrooms.

•	Replace all portable classroom buildings with
permanent or upgraded modular buildings.

•	Renovate the multi-use room for improved
sound quality, lighting, and architectural
finishes.

Lafayette Elementary School

•	Construct upgraded modular classrooms or
renovate existing portables for science, technology,
music or other instructional support space.

•	Purchase old Lafayette Library and demolish
building. Construct new kindergarten classrooms to
replace removed undersized kindergarten portables.
Construct additional classrooms to accommodate
growth. Renovate site for improvements to traffic,
circulation, and parking.

•	Remove protables from field and relocate to another
site or sell.

Lafayette projects if additional funds become
available (Possible sources of additional funds
include unused contingency, favorable bids, State
matching funds):

•	Replace all portable classroom buildings with
permanent or upgraded modular buildings.

Springhill Elementary School

•	Construct permanent or upgraded modular or
portable classrooms for science, technology, music
or other instructional support space.

•	Add space for instructional support.

•	Remove aging portable classrooms from the field.

•	Construct sound wall or green screen along
Pleasant Hill Road.

Springhill projects if additional funds become
available (Possible sources of additional funds
include unused contingency, favorable bids, State
matching funds):

•	Replace all portable classroom buildings with
permanent or upgraded modular buildings.

•	Renovate the multi-use room for improved

CC-9002-X7

sound quality, lighting, and architectural
finishes.

•	Investigate and acquire additional land for
parking.

•	Renovate main parking lot.

District-wide

•	Upgrade network infrastructure.

•	Renovate aging district office facilities.

District-wide projects if additional funds
become available (Possible sources of additional
funds include unused contingency, favorable bids,
State matching funds):

• Relocate maintenance yard from Lafayette
School to another location

************

The listed projects will be completed as needed
at a particular school or facility site according to Board-
established priorities, and the order in which such projects
appear on the Bond Project List is not an indication of priority
forfunding or completion. Each project is assumed to include
its share of the election and bond issuance costs, furniture,
equipment, architectural, engineering, inspection and
similar planning and testing costs, program management,
staff training expenses and customary contingency,
unforeseen conditions revealed by construction, renovation
or modernization (including plumbing or gas line breaks, dry
rot, seismic and structural deficiencies, etc.), and escalation
for unforeseen design and construction costs. In addition to
the listed projects stated above, the Project List also includes
the acquisitions of a variety of instructional, maintenance
and operational equipment, including the reduction or
retirement of payment of outstanding lease obligations
and interim funding incurred to advance fund projects from
the Project List, payment of the costs of preparation of
all facility planning, facility studies, assessment reviews,
facility master plan preparation and updates, environmental
studies (including environmental investigation, remediation
and monitoring), design and construction documentation,
demolition and temporary housing and storage of
dislocated District activities caused by bond projects.

The budget for each project, is an estimation and
may be affected by factors beyond the District’s control.
The final cost of each project will be determined as plans
are finalized, construction bids are awarded and projects
are completed. Based on the final costs of each project,
certain of the projects described above may be delayed
or may not be completed. Demolition of existing facilities
and reconstruction of facilities scheduled for repair and
upgrade may occur, if the Board determines that such
an approach would be more cost-effective in creating
enhanced and operationally efficient campuses. Necessary
site preparation/restoration and landscaping, may occur in
connection with new construction, renovation or remodeling,

or installation or removal of relocatable classrooms,
including ingress and egress, removing, replacing, or
installing irrigation, utility lines, trees and landscaping,
redirecting fire access, and acquiring any necessary
easements, licenses, or rights of way to the property.

The allocation of bond proceeds may be affected
by the District’s receipt of State matching funds and
the final costs of each project. In the absence of State
matching funds, which the District will pursue to reduce
the District’s share of the costs of the projects, the District
may not be able to complete some of the projects listed
above. Alternatively, if the District obtains unexpected
funds from non-bond sources with respect to listed
projects, such projects may be enhanced, supplemented
or expanded to the extent of such funds. Whenever
specific items are included in the list, they are presented
to provide an example and are not intended to limit the
generality of the broader description of authorized projects.

Approval of Measure C does not guarantee that
the proposed project or projects in the Lafayette School
District that are the subject of bonds under Measure C
will be funded beyond the local revenues generated by
Measure C. The school district's proposal for the project
or projects may assume the receipt of matching state
funds, which could be subject to appropriation by the
Legislature or approval of a statewide bond measure.

CC-9002-X8