Ballot question

The following question appeared on the ballot:[i]

Shall Ordinance No. 1165 be adopted to impose as a general tax and

44

additional transaction (sales) and use tax of one-half percent within the
city limits of the City of Ukiah to fund essential City services, including
street repair and maintenance? Such tax increase is estimated to raise
$2,470,000 annually at a rate of .5%. The duration of the tax will continue ^
unless or until the tax is repealed by majority vote in a municipal election^]

Impartial analysis

The following impartial analysis of the measure was prepared by the office of the Ukiah
City Attorney:

If approved by a majority vote, this ballot measure would approve an
ordinance increasing the general one-half of one percent (0.5%)
transaction and use tax in the City of Ukiah by an additional one-half of
one percent (0.5), making the total transaction and use tax approved by
City voters one percent (1%). This tax will be added to the existing 7.5%
statewide sales tax and the existing 1/8 of one percent (0.125%) special
Mendocino County transaction and use tax funding the County library,
making the total sales tax on goods sold in the City 8.625%. On a
purchase of $100, the proposed additional tax would increase the sales
tax by fifty cents ($.50). Under state law the maximum combined locally
adopted transaction and use taxes in Mendocino County cannot exceed
2%. If the voters approve Measure Y, the combined City and County
locally adopted transaction and use tax in the City will not exceed the 2%
maximum.

The City receives 1% of the current 7.5% statewide sales tax which goes
into the City General Fund and can be spent for any city purpose. State
law authorizes a city like Ukiah to seek voter approval for additional locally
adopted transaction and use tax, which are assessed and collected in the
same way as sales tax. This additional transaction and use tax must also
be treated as general fund revenue which may be spent for any general
fund purpose, including, but not limited to, the maintenance and repair of
City streets. Under existing state law, these funds must be used
exclusively for the municipal purposes of the City of Ukiah and may not be
diverted by the state for any other use.

The ordinance imposing the tax may only be amended or repealed by the
voters in a municipal election. The tax will be administered by the
California State Board of Equalization (“SBOE”) under a contract with the
City. Because of the time required by the SBOE to begin collecting the
tax, the ordinance does not become operative until 110 days after it is
approved by the voters. If approved at the November 8, 2016, election,
the tax increase would become operative on February 26, 2017.[2]

Ukiah City Attorney[3]