SAMPLE BALLOT & VOTER INFORMATION

Presidential General
Election

Tuesday, November 8,2016

Polls open 7am » close 8pm

SUPPLEMENT

http://www2.sdcounty.ca.gov/rov/Eng/Voters.asp

CITY OF SAN DIEGO

(This Measure will appear on the ballot in the following form.)

MEASURE D

FACILITIES AND TOURISM TAX INITIATIVE. Should the measure be adopted to:
among other provisions, increase San Diego’s hotel occupancy tax up to 5%; end
Tourism Marketing District; allow hoteliers to create assessment districts and use hotel
occupancy taxes for downtown convention center and not a stadium; prohibit
contiguous expansion of existing convention center; create downtown overlay zone for
convention and sports facilities; create environmental processes; and allow Qualcomm
stadium property’s sale for educational and park uses?

This measure’s approval threshold could be affected by legal issues currently before the
California Supreme Court.

OFFICIAL TITLE AND SUMMARY
BALLOT TITLE

Tax and Facilities Initiative: Zoning for Downtown Convention and Sports Facilities;
Transient Occupancy Tax Increase for Tourism Marketing, Convention Facilities, and General
Uses; Authorizing Sale of Mission Valley Stadium Property for University Facilities and Parks

BALLOT SUMMARY

This measure would amend the San Diego Municipal Code to, among other things,
increase the transient occupancy tax by up to 5%, and allow hoteliers to retain most of the
increase as reimbursement for assessments they make to newly formed assessment districts.
Assessment districts would be formed by hoteliers for development of a convention center that is
not contiguous with the existing convention center in downtown San Diego, and that may be
combined with a sports facility. Assessment districts could also be formed for tourism marketing.

The development area for the future convention center and sports facilities would be
defined by a new overlay zone with specific development policies. Projects allowed by the new
overlay zone would be subject to different environmental processes and requirements in place of
state laws.

The measure would also authorize the sale of 166 acres of City-owned property in
Mission Valley to one or more local colleges or universities or the San Diego River Conservancy,
with certain conditions for sale and use of the property.

The tax increase provisions can be summarized as follows: If adopted, this measure
would increase the City’s transient occupancy tax rate by 5% for hotels with more than 30 rooms,
and for recreational vehicle parks and campgrounds, for a total tax rate of 15.5%, and by 3.5% for
hotels with less than 30 rooms, for a total tax rate of 14%. These increased rates would be in
effect until changed by voters.

N SD SDO-079

BALLOT SUMMARY (CONTINUED)

If any of the municipal code amendments included in the measure are invalidated by a
court, then the measure provides that all of the measure’s provisions would be invalid. If this
happens, the tax increase likely also would be invalidated and would terminate.

This measure was placed on the ballot by the City Council after voter signatures
qualified the initiative measure for the ballot.

CITY ATTORNEY'S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

This measure would amend the San Diego Municipal Code to:

•	Add zoning for development of a convention center, sports facilities, or combined
facilities (Overlay Zone) for a twelve-block area east of Petco Park.

•	Authorize creation of new improvement districts to fund a convention center, tourist-
serving transportation infrastructure, and maintenance and repair of tourist facilities in
the Overlay Zone. These districts would be formed by hoteliers, funded through
assessments, and subject to laws regulating assessment districts. Assessments could
not be used for a sports facility or on-site expansion of the existing convention center,
and the City would be prohibited from funding any projects for convention center,
sports, or combined facilities in the Overlay Zone.

•	Eliminate the existing Tourism Marketing District and end its assessments. This District
currently promotes the City to visitors, funded through assessments of up to 2% of hotel
room rates.

•	Increase the City’s Transient Occupancy Tax (TOT). This tax is paid by guests at
hotels, recreational vehicle parks and campgrounds. The tax is itemized on guests’
bills, collected from guests by the operator and turned over to the City. The current tax
is 10.5%. This measure would increase TOT to 15.5% for larger hotels, recreational
vehicle parks and campgrounds, and to 14% for smaller hotels.

•	Instead of depositing with the City all TOT revenue collected from guests, this measure
would allow hoteliers to keep revenues from up to 2% of the TOT rate as
reimbursement for assessments they paid to a newly formed assessment district
covering development of a downtown convention center, and up to 2% as
reimbursement for assessments paid to a newly formed assessment district for tourism
marketing.

•	Repeal the existing requirement for spending revenue from 4% of the TOT rate on City
promotion.

•	Authorize the City Auditor to audit collection and reporting of TOT.

•	Block the City from participating in any project to develop an on-site expansion of the
San Diego Convention Center on Harbor Drive, and its operation, without a public vote;
authorize the City to hire the improvement district established by hoteliers to operate
the existing convention center and handle tourism marketing.

•	Authorize the sale of the 166-acre Qualcomm stadium site in Mission Valley to one or
more local colleges or universities or the San Diego River Conservancy, with conditions
relating to setting aside 28 acres for river restoration and an urban rivers research
center, 22 acres for development of public parks, and walking and biking trails.

•	Create a local environmental process for convention center and sports facility projects
in the Overlay Zone, replacing the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA). The
local environmental law would require specific mitigation measures in addition to the
mitigation, monitoring and reporting requirements of CEQA. It would create a new
hearing process and broader rights to bring environmental lawsuits.

N SD SDO-080

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS (CONTINUED)

This measure provides that if any provision is invalidated by the courts, the entire measure would
be invalid, possibly invalidating the tax increase after revenue is collected. The measure does not
address potential consequences of invalidating provisions already implemented.

FISCAL IMPACT STATEMENT

This measure would increase the City’s transient occupancy tax (TOT) from 10.5% to 15.5% for
hotels with 30 or more rooms, Recreational Vehicle Parks, and Campgrounds. TOT for hotels with
less than 30 rooms would increase from 10.5% to 14%. Revenue collected pursuant to these tax
increases would be deposited in the City’s General Fund and used for general governmental
purposes. It is estimated that this TOT increase could generate approximately $98 million
annually beginning in 2017 and increase or decrease thereafter reflecting the growth or decline in
the number of visitors to the City.

Additionally, this measure eliminates a 2% assessment that hotels currently charge customers
and use to fund a tourism marketing district (TMD). Instead, this measure allows hotels the option
to form special assessment districts and retain a portion of collected TOT funds for (a) tourism
marketing, and/or (b) a new non-contiguous convention center expansion in the East Village. If
hotels retain the maximum amount for both purposes, they would retain up to 4% ($80 million)
annually of TOT that would otherwise be remitted to the City (up to 2% for tourism marketing and
2% for a non-contiguous convention center expansion).

It is uncertain if hotels will elect to participate in these special assessment districts. Depending on
how many hotels participate in the special assessment districts and at what level of assessment,
the additional TOT revenue initially generated for the City’s General Fund could range from $18
million annually (if all hotels fully participate) to $98 million annually (if no hotels participate).

If hotels elect to form special assessment districts for tourism marketing and/or a new non-
contiguous convention center expansion, it is estimated the City Treasurer would incur
administrative costs of approximately $234,000 in the first year, and at least $84,000 annually
thereafter, to inspect and audit hotel records to ensure proper payment is being made to the City.

The City would recover these expenses from special assessment district funds.

The City is currently required to use 4% of the existing 10.5% TOT solely for programs and
services promoting the City. This measure repeals this requirement, making the 4% portion of
TOT unrestricted and available for any public purpose or service, including promoting the City.

This measure prohibits construction of a contiguous bay-front convention center expansion
without a public vote. The measure also prohibits public funding from being spent on a new
stadium without a public vote.

Should the Chargers stop playing at Qualcomm Stadium in Mission Valley, this measure would
authorize the City to sell the site to certain educational or environmental non-profit institutions for
low-density development, provided the purchaser implements specified property improvements.
The specified development and improvement requirements in this measure could reduce the sale
value of the Qualcomm site.

San Diego’s current effective TOT rate (the combined TOT and TMD) is 12.5%, below the
average of other comparable cities. A 15.5% TOT for most hotels would put San Diego among
those cities with higher TOT rates, potentially impacting hotel occupancy.

N SD SDO-081

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE D

YES on D: Protect Local Taxpayers & Resources.

Tourists and residents share our beaches, bays, parks, sports and infrastructure, but politicians
have let large corporate hotels dictate tourism policy without a public vote.

Industry studies show that San Diego’s hotel tax rate on tourists is below rates charged by
competing cities.

The result: hotel profits soar, while the tourism industry escapes paying its fair share for streets,
sidewalks, public safety, and other amenities that serve visitors and are important to our quality of
life.

The League of Women Voters, the League of Conservation Voters, taxpayer advocates, sports
fans, and Aztec alumni all support Yes on D.

YES on D: Put Local Taxpayers First

•	Set general-fund tax on large hotels at 15.5% -

some cities charge tourists more: Anaheim, 17%; San Francisco, 16.25%; Los Angeles,
15.5%.

•	End taxpayer-funded hotel marketing giveaways.

YES on D: Protect Local Resources.

Mission Valley?

•	YES to River Park, transit-dependent university uses, sports, and public access.

•	Stop massive 6,000-unit condo plan and gridlock.

San Diego’s Bayfront?

•	YES to protect tourist and resident access to Bay.

•	Stop walling off the Bay without a public vote.

Chargers Stadium?

•	YES to limit City to shared land and infrastructure.

•	Stop taxpayer funds for stadium/arena.

Convention Center Expansion?

•	YES to return on investment and cap on spending.

•	Stop blank checks and “pie-in-the-sky” promises.

Tourism Marketing?

•	YES to proper oversight and cap on City spending.

•	Stop blank checks for large hotels.

Large Hotels and the Chargers Must Pay Their Own Wav
Vote YES on D http://citizensplan.org
Protect Local Taxpayers. Protect Local Resources.

DONNA FRYE

Small Business owner/

Former City Councilmember

DAVID ALVAREZ
City Councilmember/
SDSU alumnus

SCOTT BARNETT

President, Taxpayers Advocate.org

MARTY BLOCK
State Senator/Chair,

Budget Subcommittee #1 (Education Finance)

JEFF MARSTON

Past President, SDSU Alumni Association

N SD SDO-082

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE D

Vote NO on Measure D

Measure D Could Affect Comic-Con Remaining in San Diego

"Comic-Con has stated in the past, and continues to believe, a contiguous, expanded convention
center is one that will benefit the city best. It appears this ballot initiative does not favor that
scenario. Com ic-Con

In fact, Measure D specifically prohibits the contiguous expansion of the Convention Center.
Measure D Raises Taxes

Measure D will raise TOT taxes to 15.5% and will eliminate the Tourism Marketing District that
promotes San Diego and brings in tourists from around the world. Measure D will seriously impact
San Diego’s tourist economy and the nearly 200,000 jobs that depend on it.

Measure D Crafted Behind Closed Doors by Special Interests

This complicated and convoluted initiative was crafted in secret by special interests, a few self-
serving hoteliers, and downtown insiders. Measure D would allow unelected special interests to
collect and spend your taxes.

Legal Flaws in Measure D Puts Taxpayers at Risk

Legal experts have expressed serious reservations regarding Measure D. City Attorney’s office
released a comprehensive legal analysis that identified a series of legal risks to the City. The
poorly written measure contains an unusual “poison pill” provision that will create financial risk for
the City. Legal challenges would take years and cost taxpayers millions. Read analysis at
www.sandiego.gov/cityattorney

Measure D is Likely Unconstitutional

According to the California Constitution, an initiative must be limited to a single subject. Measure
D, however, asks voters to approve over 20 unique provisions including: tax hikes, creating new
land use zones, creates new bureaucratic environmental laws to replace the California
Environmental Quality Act, authorizes the sale of Qualcomm stadium site, and requires the Port
of San Diego to spend millions of taxpayer dollars on an ill-advised scheme.

Vote NO on Measure D!

RHIANA WILSON

Keep Comic-Con in San Diego, Founder

C. TERRY BROWN

Lodging Industry Association, Chairman

GREG STEIN

San Diego County Taxpayers
Association, Chairman

SCOTT SHERMAN

San Diego City Councilmember,
District 7

PR-09L0-082

N SD SDO-083

BALLOT MEASURE FULL TEXT

NOTICE OF INTENT TO CIRCULATE PETITION

Notice is hereby given of the intention of the person whose name appears hereon to circulate a petition
within the City of San Diego for the purpose of requiring the responsible management of the City's major
tourism-and entertainment-related facilities and infrastructure benefitting from and impacting the City's most
valuable resource: the connection of tourists and residents to the Pacific Ocean and its beaches, bays,
rivers and tributaries.

THE CITIZENS' PLAN FOR THE RESPONSIBLE MANAGEMENT OF
MAJOR TOURISM AND ENTERTAINMENT RESOURCES

Be it ordained by the People of the City of San Diego:

Parti. Title.

This Ordinance shall be known and may be cited as the Citizens' Plan for the Responsible
Management of Major Tourism and Entertainment Resources (the "Ordinance").

Part 2. Findings and Declarations.

The People of the City of San Diego hereby find and declare all of the following:

(a)	The City of San Diego's most valuable resource for both tourists and residents is
the City's connection to the Pacific Ocean and its beaches, bays, harbors, rivers and
tributaries, which are supported by major tourism- and entertainment-related facilities
and infrastructure that benefit from and impact this resource. This Ordinance is
necessary to ensure that the benefits of this resource can be accessed and enjoyed by
tourists and residents alike in the near and distant future, and to establish transparent
financing mechanisms that support each of them paying their fair share for the facilities
and infrastructure that benefit from and impact this resource.

(b)	The public's right to vote - especially on the City's levying of new taxes, incurring of
new debt, and selling and administering of large parcels of public land - is a basic legal
requirement embodied in the California Constitution and the San Diego City Charter, and
must not be violated under any circumstance.

(c)	Tourism is one of the City's top industries and is responsible for a substantial portion
of the City's revenues in the form of the Transient Occupancy Tax ("TOT"), which is
used to pay for a variety of general governmental services such as street and sidewalk
maintenance, parks, fire stations, environmental protection, and public safety that
benefit tourists and residents alike. The San Diego Municipal Code currently sets the
TOT rate at 10.5%

(d)	The City's 10.5% TOT rate is not competitive. By comparison, it has been reported that
in 2014 Seattle's lodging tax rate was 16.5%, San Francisco's lodging tax rate was
16.25%, Los Angeles' lodging tax rate was 15.5%, and Anaheim's lodging tax rate was
17%. The City therefore could eliminate the 0.55-2% "self-assessment" that currently
may be passed on to hotel guests in connection with the San Diego Tourism Marketing
District and raise its overall TOT rate to 15.5%, thereby increasing the amount of money
paid by tourists in support of their fair share of general governmental services, while
still maintaining a highly competitive tax rate. Moreover, by having a slightly lower rate
for tourists who stay at smaller accommodations, the City will also have an even greater
competitive advantage while also having needed general revenues to support general
governmental services.

(e)	City officials have done too little to ensure that tourists and the businesses benefitting
from tourism pay their fair share of the costs to develop, maintain and enhance
existing and new tourism- and entertainment-related facilities and infrastructure in an
economically sustainable and environmentally responsible manner. It has been reported
that Qualcomm Stadium may require $75 million or more in deferred maintenance and

N SD SDO-084

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

the San Diego Convention Center may require $30 million to $40 million in deferred
maintenance. There has also been a lack of transparency, accountability, and efficiency
in the City's planning, financing, managing, and sales and marketing process for such
facilities and infrastructure, which has contributed to many of the City's problems such
as funding shortfalls and failed measures to expand the Convention Center. The adoption
of this Ordinance would serve in part to ensure that the City's facilities and infrastructure
are responsibly managed and would establish concrete, transparent, and voter-approved
mechanisms and incentives for the tourism industry to support its fair share of the costs
required to properly maintain and enhance existing facilities and infrastructure and to
develop new facilities and infrastructure.

(f)	The City's tourism industry has enjoyed many of the benefits of the availability of
public resources such as Qualcomm Stadium, the San Diego Convention Center, and
the facilities and infrastructure that serve them, without having to bear a commensurate
share of the burden of providing and maintaining such infrastructure and facilities. These
resources have, for many years, experienced growing operational deficits and deferred-
maintenance debts. Only a coordinated and consolidated governance structure can
provide the efficiencies necessary to relieve the public of this burden. The adoption of
this Ordinance would serve in part to give the hotel industry incentives to assume their
fair share of providing the highest quality tourism- and entertainment-related facilities
and infrastructure.

(g)	Responsibly managing the City's tourism- and entertainment-related facilities and
infrastructure in a manner that preserves and enhances access for tourists and residents
to the City's most valuable resource - its unique connection to the Pacific Ocean and its
beaches, bays, harbors, rivers and tributaries - requires restoring and protecting this
resource, appropriately allocating low-density and high-density development impacting
this resource, and supporting compatible uses adjacent to or near this resource that
together maximize tourism and public benefits. The adoption of this Ordinance would
serve in part to provide voter-approved incentives for meeting the foregoing need,
including, but not limited to, incentives to concentrate intensive and high-density
development outside of the Qualcomm Stadium site and away from the Downtown San
Diego Waterfront.

(h)	The Qualcomm Stadium site and the City's downtown have long been linked, in
part because of the ongoing discussion about the location of a potential new home
stadium for the San Diego Chargers. This link is as natural as the connection tourists
and residents have to the Pacific Ocean and its waterways. The existing Qualcomm
Stadium site and the downtown area in and around the "East Village" community are
among the few remaining areas within the City that would support the development
of future major tourism- and entertainment-related facilities, and would benefit from
significant facilities and infrastructure such as existing hotels, public-access, and public-
transportation systems. These factors, and others, also provide the necessary tools to
prudently finance any future major tourism- and entertainment-related facilities. As
such, the adoption of this Ordinance would not prevent the City from pursuing the
development of a new home stadium for the Chargers or another National Football
League ("NFL") franchise either at the existing Qualcomm Stadium site or in an area of
downtown that is off the Downtown San Diego Waterfront. Moreover, in furtherance
of its stated objective, and if the Chargers and the City determine not to maintain the
existing Qualcomm Stadium site for the home stadium of the Chargers or if another NFL
team does not make the site its home stadium, this Ordinance would authorize the City to
sell the approximately 166-acre site for its fair-market value and subject to the condition
that it be developed for the combined activities and uses of environmental preservation,
education, eco-tourism, recreation, and other compatible uses that together maximize
the tourism and public benefits of and access to this land with such high ecological
value.

PR-09L0-084

N SD SDO-085

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

(i)	For all of the foregoing reasons, as well as those expressed in the other provisions of
this Ordinance, the reforms contained herein are necessary to properly and adequately
enhance, preserve, and manage the City's major tourism- and entertainment-related
resources in a manner that best protects the unique and valuable connection between
tourists and residents and the Pacific Ocean and its beaches, bays, harbors, rivers
and tributaries. To this end, the reforms reflect the public's desire to see substantial
improvements in the City's overall management of its tourism- and entertainment-
related resources through a comprehensive, integrated, economically sustainable,
environmentally responsible, and lawful plan for enhancing, preserving, and responsibly
managing all of these resources. All of the components of this Ordinance have a direct
relationship and are essential to each other in order to effectuate the public s purposes
and intent.

Part 3. Purposes and Intent.

The People of the City of San Diego hereby declare the following purposes and intent in enacting
this Ordinance:

(a)	Setting the City's Transient Occupancy Tax at a competitive rate compared to other cities:
15.5% for large hotels and 14% for small hotels.

(b)	Repealing an existing 4% earmark on Transient Occupancy Tax that is used for
promoting the City as a tourism destination, repealing the San Diego Tourism Marketing
District Procedural Ordinance and its 0.55-2% surcharge on hotel guests as a redundant
program for promoting the City, and replacing them with two voluntary programs that
encourage hoteliers to self-assess as follows:

(1)	By creating one self-assessment designed to pay for promoting the City, and
another self-assessment designed to finance an off-waterfront expansion of the
San Diego Convention Center; and

(2)	By giving hoteliers the option of taking a credit of up to 2% from their Transient
Occupancy Tax remittances for their promotional self-assessment and another
cred it of up to 2% from their remittances for their expansion self-assessment,
for a maximum cred it of 4%, as an incentive to hoteliers in exchange for their
assumption of the responsibility for promoting the City and expanding the
Convention Center.

(c)	Reaffirming the prohibition against an expansion of the San Diego Convention Center
on the Downtown San Diego Waterfront, allowing an off-waterfront expansion of the
Convention Center, and thereafter allowing for, but not requiring, private management
of the Convention Center subject to the assumption of liabilities (including deferred
maintenance) by such private management as specified below.

(d)	Allowing for, but not requiring, the sale of the approximately 166-acre Qualcomm Stadium
site, subject to the site thereafter being used for the compatible low-impact purposes
of environmental preservation, university education, eco-tourism, recreation, and other
compatible uses that together maximize the tourism and public benefits of and access
to land with such high ecological value; and encouraging higher-density development
to be directed downtown, consistent with existing facilities and infrastructure and the
community plan.

(e)	Allowing for retention of the San Diego Chargers in Mission Valley or downtown without
taxpayer funding, consistent with the protection of the Pacific Ocean and its beaches,
bays, harbors, rivers and tributaries, as applicable, with public financing requiring a
separate vote of the people.

PR-09L0-085

N SD SDO-086

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

Part 4. The Citizens' Plan for the Responsible Management of Major Tourism and Entertainment
Resources shall be codified by adding and revising provisions to the San Diego Municipal Code as
follows:

A.	The following sections are to be added to, and inserted in numerical order into the existing

provisions of, Division 1 of Article 5 of Chapter 3 of the San Diego Municipal Code, Transient Occupancy Tax.

§35.0109 Establishment of Fair, Competitive Tourist Tax Rates

(a)	This section increases the City's Transient Occupancy Tax rate to enable the City to
keep its competitive advantage over other major tourism destinations while at the same
time generating additional general revenues to, by way of example and not limitation,
support general government services, facilities and infrastructure, and the protection
of the environment that make the City one of the nation's top tourism destinations.

(b)	Notwithstanding the tax imposed by Sections 35.0103, 35.0104, 35.0105, 35.0106,

35.0107,	or 35.0108 and in addition thereto, for the privilege of Occupancy in any Hotel
with at least 30 rooms available for Occupancy, any Recreational Vehicle Park, or any
Campground, each Transient is subject to and shall pay an additional tax in the amount
of 5%.

(c)	Notwithstanding the tax imposed by Sections 35.0103, 35.0104, 35.0105, 35.0106,

35.0107,	or 35.0108 and in addition thereto, for the privilege of Occupancy in any Hotel
with less than 30 rooms available for Occupancy, each Transient is subject to and shall
pay an additional tax in the amount of 3.5%.

(d)	All revenues collected pursuant to the taxes imposed by the City under this section
shall be deposited in the General Fund of the City and be used for general governmental
purposes as the City Council may from time to time provide in accordance with the
Charter of the City of San Diego and the City Council's appropriation ordinance. To this
end, the tax imposed under this section is intended to be and shall be a general tax and
not a special tax.

§35.0121.5 Review of Records by City Auditor

To ensure that the City is collecting and accurately reporting and accounting for all Transient
Occupancy Tax amounts that are due, the City Auditor shall have the same right as the City
Treasurer to inspect records and apply audit procedures under Section 35.0121. It shall be
unlawful for any person to refuse to allow or permit such audit to be conducted by the City
Auditor after a lawful demand therefor by the City Auditor, even when the City Treasurer has
not joined in or made the demand.

§35.0139 Sunset Provisions for Section 35.0128(a)

(a)	Section 35.0128(a) shall terminate, be repealed, and have no further force or effect, and
all legal authority, rights, and obligations conferred or imposed by Section 35.0128(a)
shall be deemed withdrawn in their entirety, as of 11:59 p.m. on the earlier of the first
December 31 or the first June 30 to occur after this section takes effect. Without in
any way limiting the effect of the prior sentence, the limitation on the use of Transient
Occupancy Tax imposed by Section 35.0128(a) shall have no force or effect after the
earlier of the first December 31 or the first June 30 to occur after this section takes
effect.

(b)	The sunset provisions contained in sub-section (a) of this section have no force or effect
on Section 35.0128(b)-(c) or on the imposition or continuation of a tax pursuant to
Section 35.0103. Sections 35.0103 and 35.0128(b)-(c) remain in full force and effect.

(c)	Nothing in this section is intended to eliminate or reduce any activity, program, or
project previously funded from Transient Occupancy Tax revenues subject to Section
35.0128(a), including but not limited to arts and culture, capital improvements,

PR-09L0-086

N SD SDO-087

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

economic development, safety and maintenance of visitor-related facilities, and major
events.

B.	The following section is to be added to, and inserted in numerical order into the existing
provisions of, Division 25 of Article 1 of Chapter 6 of the San Diego Municipal Code, the San Diego Tourism
Marketing District Procedural Ordinance.

§61.2528 Sunset Provisions for San Diego Tourism Marketing District Procedural Ordinance

	This Division and each of its sections shall terminate, be repealed, and have no further force or effect, and all legal authority, rights, and obligations conferred or imposed by this Division or any of its sections shall be deemed withdrawn in their entirety, as of 11:59 p.m. on the earlier of the first December 31 or the first June 30 to occur after this section takes effect. Without in any way limiting the effect of the prior sentence, no assessment may be imposed or collected pursuant to this Division after the earlier of the first December 31 or the first June 30 to occur after this section takes effect.

C.	The following sections are to be added as Division 28 of Article 1 of Chapter 6 of the San Diego
Municipal Code, Tourism- and Entertainment-Related Facilities and Infrastructure Protection and Improvement.

§61.2801 Tourism- and Entertainment-Related Facilities and Infrastructure Protection and

§61.2802	Improvement  (a) The purpose of this Division is to authorize structures, facilities, infrastructure, and land uses and to establish regulations that will broadly and collectively promote economically and environmentally sustainable tourism, in a responsible manner that minimizes the financial risk and maximizes the financial benefits for the City. The purpose of this Division is also to serve the needs of tourists and residents alike, as part of a set of related reforms to the City's overall management of its major tourism- and entertainment-related facilities and infrastructure (the other reforms being codified elsewhere in this Municipal Code). By way of example and not limitation, this Division will achieve its purposes by:  (1)	Facilitating the creation, preservation, and enhancement of access to park and open space in Mission Valley and along the Downtown San Diego Waterfront by limiting the City's ability to grant subsidies, while simultaneously creating incentives for public-private partnerships that benefit taxpayers, residents, and tourists.  (2)	Promoting efficiencies in the City's tourism planning, management, and sales and marketing, and ensuring that the City's priorities for the financing and administration of major tourism- and entertainment-related facilities and infrastructure align with the City's needs and financing capabilities.  (3)	Updating and harmonizing existing provisions of the Municipal Code that contribute to poor planning, management, and sales and marketing of major tourism- and entertainment-related facilities and infrastructure and impair the City's ability to achieve its tourism goals in a way that improves performance and economic benefits for taxpayers.  Creation of Tourism-Financed Improvement Districts; Incorporation and Modification of  Property and Business Improvement District Law of 1994  (a)	The purpose of this section is to allow for the creation of tourism-financed improvement districts that will serve the needs of tourists and residents alike.  (b)	The Property and Business Improvement District Law of 1994 ("PBID Law") is hereby incorporated into this Division by reference but shall be subject to all of the modifications and limitations provided in this section, which shall themselves be construed liberally to achieve the purposes of this Division, and shall be further subject to any and all other applicable legal requirements.

N SD SDO-088

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

(c)	With respect to membership on the governing body of the district, for each such district,
the governing body of the owners' association shall have at least one member who
meets all of the following criteria:

(1)	The member has been an auditor, forensic accountant, certified public accountant,
or attorney with finance experience for at least five consecutive years prior to
appointment to the governing body.

(2)	The member has certified under penalty of perjury that not more than 10% of the
value of his or her non-retirement investments during the preceding five years
has been in one or more tourism-related businesses.

(3)	The member has certified under penalty of perjury that not more than 10% of his
or her gross income during the preceding five years has come from one or more
tourism-related businesses.

(4)	The member is recommended by the Mayor and approved by the City Council.

(d)	For each such district, the governing body of the owners' association shall have at least
one member who meets all of the following criteria.

(1)	The member is a member of a labor union for at least one year prior to appointment
to the governing body.

(2)	The member is recommended by the Mayor and approved by the City Council.

(e)	Each owners' association shall be considered a private entity and may not be considered
a public entity for any purpose, nor may its board members or staff be considered to be
public officials for any purpose, except as follows:

(1)	Each owners' association shall be considered a public entity for purposes of
satisfying any mitigation measures that may be required of a district, the owners'
association, or both pursuant to Section 61.2804(c)-(d).

(2)	The board members and staff shall be considered public officials for purposes of
California Government Code Section 1090. However, no board member or staff is
financially interested in any contract made by him or her if the contract provides
no greater material benefit to the board member or staff than it provides to any
assessee in the district.

(3)	Each owners' association shall be subject to and comply with any and all laws
specified in California Streets and Highways Code Section 36612.

(f)	Not more than 90 days after the end of each such district's fiscal year, the owners'
association shall file audited financial statements for the ended year with the City Clerk.
The audited financial statements shall be accompanied by a certification from the chief
financial officer or treasurer of the owners' association affirming under penalty of perjury
that no expenditure during the ended year was made for any purpose not explicitly
authorized by the management district plan and the annual report approved by the City
Council for the ended year. The City shall not release any assessments collected for the
district more than 90 days after the ended year unless and until the audited financial
statements and certification required by this sub-section are filed with the City Clerk. The
audited financial statements and certification shall be open for inspection and copying
by the public.

(g)	No portion of the assessments collected for any such district may be used to pay for or
otherwise provide any form of "activities" as that term is used in the PBID Law, including
but not limited to any sales and marketing or promotion.

(h)	No portion of the assessments levied or collected for any such district may be used to
pay for or otherwise provide any form of acquisition (by purchase, lease, or otherwise),
development, design, entitlement, construction, operation, or maintenance of any

PR-09L0-088

N SD SDO-089

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

structure, facility, infrastructure, or use in the coastal zone under either of the following
circumstances:

(1)	The structure, facility, infrastructure, or use in any way comprises or is intended
to comprise an extension, expansion, annex or other component or portion of
the San Diego Convention Center, or any activities undertaken there, beyond the
physical footprint of the Convention Center structure as it existed at 111 West
Harbor Drive in the City of San Diego on October 9, 2013; or

(2)	The purpose of the structure, facility, infrastructure, or use is to provide convention,
exhibition, meeting, or banquet opportunities like those provided at the Convention
Center.

(i)	For each such district, the owners' association shall at all times maintain an Internet
Web site and promptly and conspicuously publish there all of the following documents
and other information:

(1)	The agendas of the governing body and any committees thereof, as if the owners'
association were a "local agency" and the governing body and each committee
were a "legislative body" as those terms are used in California Government Code
Section 54954.2(d) (including its sub-parts). The published agendas shall include
any and all back-up materials distributed to one or more members of the governing
body or committee in connection with the meeting.

(2)	The minutes of each meeting of the governing body and any committees thereof.
The minutes shall include a copy of any and all materials submitted to the body
or committee in connection with the meeting, except for any records that were
distributed exclusively during an authorized closed-session meeting of the
governing body or that are exempt from disclosure under the California Public
Records Act.

(3)	A file-stamped copy of the audited financial statements and certification required
under sub-section (f) of this section.

(4)	Any and all state and federal tax returns.

(5)	Each management district plan as defined in the PBID Law.

(6)	Each fiscal year's report as described in the PBID Law.

(7)	For each fiscal year, the names, mailing addresses, phone number, e-mail address,
and officer title (if any) for each member of the governing body of the owners'
association and for any executive director or other officer or committee member
who is not a member of the governing body.

(8)	Any and all resolutions or ordinances of the City Council pertaining to the district.

(9)	Any and all contracts (including any amendments thereto or other modifications
thereof) between the City and the owners' association.

The maintenance of the Internet Web site for the purpose of providing public access to
the foregoing documents and other information shall not constitute sales and marketing
or promotion prohibited under sub-section (e) of this section.

(j)	None of the improvements financed by such a district may include any portion of
the acquisition (by purchase, lease, or otherwise), development, design, entitlement,
construction, operation, or maintenance of an entertainment or professional sports
facility. If the improvements financed by a district consist of any convention center,
exhibition, and meeting facilities described in Section 61.2804(b)(1) and are combined
with any entertainment or professional sports facility, the incremental costs of
acquisition, development, design, entitlement, construction, operation, and maintenance
exclusively attributable to the portion of the combined facility added for entertainment-

PR-09L0-089

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

or professional sports-facility purposes shall be paid from sources other than district
assessments or any proceeds from bonds issued by the district.

(k)	Each of the property and business owners submitting the written petition for the
creation of such a district shall be the holder of a valid Transient Occupancy Registration
Certificate within the district.

(l)	"Improvement" as defined in the PBID Law may also include transportation infrastructure
that allows tourists to move between frequently visited destinations in the San Diego
region (e.g., streetcar lines between Balboa Park and Downtown, an airport intermodal
transit center, and light-rail extensions), as well as maintenance, repairs, restoration,
or remodeling of tourist-related facilities within the district's physical footprint.

(m)	The City's total annual administrative fee and other charges imposed on any such district
and owners' association may not exceed 0 .25% of the district assessments remitted
to the City. This limitation may be increased each year based on any adjustment of the
"Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers (CPI-U): U.S. city average, all items"
on the first day of the fiscal year for which the charges are to be imposed.

(n)	The fiscal year of such district and of the owners' association shall at all times be the
same as the City's fiscal year.

(o)	Nothing in this section imposes any limitations on such district s ability to increase
assessments in order to secure adequate coverage for any debt it may incur. This
includes but is not limited to assessments for funds used to make payments of
premiums and other costs, fees, and expenses of an insurance policy or policies, for
funds used to fund a cash, investment, or other reserve or maintenance account or
accounts that are secured for the benefit of financing parties and for the payment of
costs, fees, and expenses in connection therewith, for funds used to make payments in
respect of such other instrument or instruments as may be agreed with the financing
parties, or any combination thereof, in each case for the purpose of satisfying any such
coverage requirement.

(p)	Beginning in such district's sixth fiscal year and continuing each fiscal year thereafter,
the owners' association shall provide an annual written accounting of the amount of
assessments received by the district over the preceding five fiscal years and the amount
of such receipts that have accumulated without being spent, encumbered, or set aside
during that five-year period for a future expenditure on one or more improvements
authorized by the management district plan. The accounting shall be filed with the City
Clerk not more than 90 days after the end of the district's fiscal year. The accounting
shall be accompanied by a certification from the chief financial officer or treasurer of the
owners' association affirming under penalty of perjury that the information contained in
the accounting is true and correct. The City shall not release any assessments collected
for the district more than 90 days after the ended year corresponding to the accounting
unless and until the accounting and certification required by this sub-section are filed
with the City Clerk. The accounting and certification shall be open for inspection and
copying by the public.

(q)	Not more than 30 days after the accounting and certification described in sub-section (p)
of this section is filed with the City Clerk, the owners' association shall remit to the City
any and all receipts described in sub-section (p) that have not been spent, encumbered,
or set aside for a future expenditure authorized by the management district plan up
to the total of all deductions that may have been taken from Transient Occupancy Tax
remittances by one or more Operators under Section 61.2807(b) or (c). This remittance
constitutes the reimbursement of unused incentives taken by Operators to undertake
the improvements in the management district plan; it does not constitute a forfeiture,
penalty, or any other loss of a vested right because the incentives would not have been

PR-09L0-090

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

authorized in the absence of a reasonable expectation that they would in fact be used
for the purposes specified in the plan.

(r)	No portion of any of the assessments collected by such district may be used for any
political purpose, including but not limited to supporting or opposing any initiative,
referendum, or other ballot measure, or supporting or opposing any candidate for
elective or other public office.

(s)	There shall be no limit on the number of such districts that may be created under this
section. If any such districts are created:

(1)	The first district shall be known as the "Downtown Tourism-Financed Infrastructure
District.'lts geographic area shall encompass the entirety of the 92101 and
92134 ZIP codes, as well as that portion of the 92113 ZIP code lying north of the
Coronado Bridge and west of Interstate 5.

(2)	The second district shall be known as the "Suburban Tourism-Financed
Infrastructure District.'lts geographic area shall encompass the entirety of the
City except that portion encompassed by the Downtown Tourism-Financed
Infrastructure District.

(3)	More than one district may be created simultaneously.

The specification of the name and geographic area of any district is not intended to
constitute the levy of any fee, charge, or other tax or assessment.

(t)	Any such district shall be entitled to borrow or loan money on commercially reasonable
terms.

(u)	Nothing in this section is intended to require any expenditure of City funds for any
particular purpose, including but not limited to any tourism-, convention-, or sports-
related facility.

§61.2803 Approval of Tourism-Financed Improvement Districts Except to the extent otherwise
prohibited or required law:

(a)	The City Council shall ministerially approve the formation of any tourism-financed
improvement district that meets the requirements of Section 61.2802, including any
interim actions leading up to a final approval.

(b)	Final approval shall occur not more than 30 days after all legal prerequisites to final
approval have been satisfied.

(c)	No interim action shall occur more than 30 days after all legal prerequisites for the
interim action have been satisfied.

(d)	If the City Council fails to give any final approval or take any interim action within the
time limits specified in this section, the matter shall be deemed approved or taken, as
the case may be, by operation of law and without the need for further approval or action
by the City Council.

§61.2804 Creation of Downtown Convention and Entertainment Overlay Zone

(a)	The Downtown Convention and Entertainment Overlay Zone ("Overlay Zone") is hereby
created and made applicable to all parcels of real property lying north of Imperial Avenue,
west of 17th Street, south of K Street, and east of Park Boulevard in the City of San
Diego.

(b)	In addition to any other structures, facilities, infrastructure, or uses authorized by the
Municipal Code and applicable land-use plans, and in accordance with all other applicable
legal requirements, the structures, facilities, infrastructure, and uses authorized within
the Overlay Zone shall include the following:

(1) Convention center, exhibition, and meeting facilities;

PR-09L0-091

N SD SDO-092

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

(2)	Professional, semi-professional, collegiate, or recreational sports facilities; or

(3)	Any structures, facilities, or infrastructure that provide for one or more authorized
uses, including a single structure or facility that combines one or more authorized
uses.

(c)	Each and every project involving one or more structures, facilities, infrastructure, or
uses authorized by this section shall comply with any and all mitigation, monitoring,
and reporting requirements that would be required under the California Environmental
Quality Act in the same manner and to the same extent as a project that is not exempt
from environmental review under the Act. The mitigation measures shall include, at a
minimum, all of the following:

(1)	Construction that satisfies the Leadership in Environmental and Energy Design
(LEED) silver standard as of the effective date of this section, or the standard's
equivalent if approved by the U.S. Green Building Council, and a plan to reduce
vehicle miles traveled to the project that includes incentives for the use of public
transit.

(2)	Compliance with all applicable federal, state, and local rules and regulations
governing historical resources.

(3)	The proponent or proponents of any project authorized by this section shall make
to the San Diego Unified Port District a one-time payment of $15 million no later
than one year after the issuance of any certificate of occupancy for the project, in
exchange for the Port District's binding legal commitment to match that payment
with $35 million over a 30-year period. At least 90% of the total $50 million in
funds shall be used exclusively for the development, design, entitlement, and
construction of public park and recreational facilities to be included in Phase
2 of the Port District's North Embarcadero Visionary Plan, and up to 10% of
the total funds shall be used exclusively to enhance public access and activate
public uses along the Downtown San Diego Waterfront adjacent to the San Diego
Convention Center. The funds may not be used for any purpose not expressly
authorized by this paragraph, and in particular may not be used to satisfy any of
the Port District's obligations under Section 1 of that certain Memorandum of
Understanding commonly known as Port District Document No. 57019 filed in
the Office of the District Clerk on November 15, 2010, except that up to one-half
of the proceeds may be used to acquire the real property described in Section I
(C) of the Memorandum of Understanding.

(4)	The creation of a reserve fund sufficient to enable one public-agency recipient
under Section 61.2806 to incur bonded indebtedness or other debt generating
$5 million in principal proceeds based on a repayment period of not more than
30 years to be used exclusively by the recipient for the development, design,
entitlement, and construction of the Urban Rivers Scientific Interpretive Center
specified in Section 61.2806(a)(l)(i). After such debt is incurred, at the beginning
of each of its fiscal years, the public-agency recipient shall be entitled to an
advance from the reserve fund in an amount equal to the recipient's actual out-
of-pocket debt service for that fiscal year. The public-agency recipient's request
for an advance shall be made in writing and certify under penalty of perjury that
the advance will be applied only toward the debt service. The proceeds from the
debt may not be used for any purpose not expressly authorized by this paragraph.
Upon the full payment and discharge of the debt, including all principal and interest
thereon, any funds remaining in such reserve fund shall be promptly paid to the
public-agency recipient, to be used solely for the purposes prescribed in this
paragraph.

PR-09L0-092

N SD SDO-093

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

Each of the measures required by this sub-section (c) is necessary to mitigate the
potentially significant impacts of the projects contemplated by this section. However,
the mitigation measure required by sub-section (c)(4) of this section serves to mitigate
some of the potentially significant impacts of these projects as well as some of the
potentially significant impacts of the activities contemplated by Section 61.2806(a)

(l)(iv), which are themselves the result of moving development intensities between
Mission Valley and Downtown San Diego in order to maximize economic benefits while
minimizing environmental harm.

(d)	The mitigation required by sub-section (c) of this section shall be completed, or if not
capable of being completed for non-financial reasons shall at least be legally enforceable
by any member of the public, no later than the first issuance of any certificate of
occupancy for the project in the case of sub-sections (c)(l)-(2), and no later than one
year after the first issuance of any certificate of occupancy for the project in the case of
sub-sections (c)(3)-(4). Except as otherwise required by sub-section (c), any project
described in sub-sections (b)(1)-(3) of this section shall be exempt from the California
Environmental Quality Act.

(e)	The City shall provide the public with an opportunity to review and comment on any
proposed mitigation, monitoring, and reporting requirements under sub-sections (c)
and (d) of this section and shall adopt the requirements at a public hearing noticed in
accordance with the Land Development Code's requirements for Process Five decisions

(f)	Nothing in this Division affects any vested rights in existence when this section takes
effect. Minor modifications to any such vested rights may be processed ministerially,
or otherwise in accordance with Process One of the Land Development Code.

(g)	Nothing in this section is intended to diminish the parking rights acquired by the San
Diego Padres with respect to Tailgate Park.

§61.2805 Protection of Open Space, Public Access, and Other Tourism-Related and -Frequented

Facilities on Downtown San Diego Waterfront

(a)	The City shall not, seek the approval of, operate, lease, own, loan money to or for,
financially support, or otherwise directly or indirectly participate, whether through
a joint powers authority or otherwise, in any form of acquisition, development,
design, entitlement, construction, operation, or maintenance of any structure, facility,
infrastructure, or use in the coastal zone that in any way comprises or is intended
to comprise an extension, expansion, annex or other component or portion of the
San Diego Convention Center beyond the physical footprint of the Convention Center
structure as it existed at 111 West Harbor Drive in the City of San Diego immediately
prior to the California Coastal Commission's approval of San Diego Unified Port
District's Port Master Plan Amendment No. 6-PSD-MAJ-45-13 (Port District Master
Plan Amendment no. 45) on October 10, 2013.

(b)	Nothing in sub-section (a) of this section is intended to apply to any structure, facility,
infrastructure, or use in the coastal zone that is not contiguous to the San Diego
Convention Center as described in sub-section (a) or that is not authorized by the Port
Master Plan Amendment identified in sub-section (a); or intended to apply to the City's
liability for deferred maintenance of the existing Convention Center as of the effective
date of this section.

(c)	Nothing in this Division prevents the City from seeking the qualified electors' approval
of a future expansion of the San Diego Convention Center in the coastal zone.

(d)	The City may refinance any bonded indebtedness it has incurred in connection with the
San Diego Convention Center in order to obtain a lower interest rate or other savings
entirely applied to pay down the principal amount of the indebtedness. In refinancing,
however, the City may not extend the term of any existing bonded indebtedness.

PR-09L0-093

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

§61.2806 Protection and Enhancement of Mission Valley Options for Shared Visitor and Resident
Use Including Eco-Tourism, Higher Education, Environmental Science, and Professional
and Collegiate Sports

(a)	As home to the primary stadium of the San Diego Chargers, Qualcomm Stadium
in Mission Valley is both a source of civic pride and an attraction to tourists. The
approximately 166-acre site also has high ecological value in a high-density area of
the City that includes numerous existing hotels and other hospitality infrastructure
(including public transportation) in close proximity to the site. As a result, the site
provides the City and the public with the opportunity to allow for future development that
combines environmental preservation, education, eco-tourism, recreation, and other
compatible public uses that together maximize the tourism and public benefit of and
access to this land. In furtherance of the foregoing, if at any time the Qualcomm Stadium
site ceases to serve as the location of the home stadium for the Chargers or another
National Football League franchise, then the City is authorized to sell the approximately
166-acre site directly, or indirectly through structured conduit transactions, to San
Diego State University, the University of California at San Diego, the San Diego River
Conservancy, any San Diego Community College, or any combination of such public
agencies (collectively, "Qualified Recipient"), subject to all of the following conditions,
limitations, and procedures:

(1)	The instruments for the final transfer of possession, ownership, or use of the
site to the Qualified Recipient shall include such use restrictions and covenants
running with the land, for the benefit of the City, that are necessary to ensure that
all requirements of this section are satisfied. The transfer instruments, including all
required restrictions and covenants, shall be made available for public inspection
at least 30 days prior to their execution by the City. At a minimum, the restrictions
and covenants shall ensure the following:

(i)	The portion of the site (approximately 28 acres) proximate to the San Diego
River and bordered generally on the north by the elevated trolley line shall be
reserved exclusively in perpetuity for restoration of that segment of the River
in accordance with the San Diego River Conservancy's Strategic Plan Update
2012-2017 and other planning documents applicable to the Conservancy. A
portion of the site in reasonable proximity to the existing trolley station on
the site shall also be reserved exclusively and in perpetuity for and developed
as an Urban Rivers Scientific Interpretive Center, to be operated by the
Qualified Recipient as a center for eco-tourism, teaching, public education,
and scientific research, including the monitoring of the River from its source
to the Pacific Ocean. The requirements of this paragraph shall be satisfied
at the same time as or before the requirements of sub-section (a)(l)(iv) of
this section are satisfied, but in any event not more than five years after the
first transfer of ownership.

(ii)	Separate from and in addition to the portion of the site reserved in sub-
section (a)(l)(i) of this section, at least 22 acres of the site shall be reserved
exclusively in perpetuity for and developed and maintained as active
recreational space, to be designated for shared use by all members of the
public, including tourists, and not merely university-affiliated persons. This
portion of the site shall be located in reasonably close proximity to the
existing trolley station in order to encourage the use of public transit. The
requirements of this paragraph shall be satisfied at the same time as or
before the requirements of sub-section (a)(1) (iv) of this section are satisfied,
but in any event not more than five years after the first transfer of ownership.
The site s planners and designers shall use their best efforts to maximize
shared-use recreational space. At least one-third of the portion of the site

PR-09L0-094

N SD SDO-095

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

described in this paragraph shall be recreational use that is open to the
public and not subject to reservation for organized university use.

(iii)	To the extent practicable, there shall be an 8- to 10-foot-wide continuous
walking and biking path or trail incorporating the entire site. There shall be
sufficient paths or trails connecting the portions of the site described in
sub-section (a)(l)(i) of this section to the portions of the site described in
sub-section (a)(1)(H) of this section to ensure active use of both portions.
The requirements of this paragraph shall be satisfied at the same time as or
before the requirements of sub-section (a)(l)(iv) of this section are satisfied,
but in any event not more than five years after the first transfer of ownership.
That portion of the path and trail passing through the area described in sub-
section (a)(1)(H) of this section may be counted toward satisfying the size
requirement of that area.

(iv)	The portion of the site not covered by sub-sections (a)(1)(i)-(iii) of this
section shall be reserved exclusively and in perpetuity for and developed
as university-related facilities to support university uses and activities (e.g.,
hospitality education or environmental research), including but not limited
to student and faculty housing, classroom and administrative buildings,
campus-serving commercial buildings, research and development facilities,
and intramural and interscholastic sports facilities, such as a stadium for
football, soccer, or both (not in excess 40,000 seats). Nothing in this
paragraph precludes shared university and other public uses of any facility
constructed on the site.

(v)	For purposes of the California Environmental Quality Act, the preservation,
enhancement, and access measures described in sub-sections (a)(l)(i)-(iii)
of this section shall be treated as components of any necessary mitigation
for the impacts of the development described in sub-section (a)(l)(iv) of
this section and Section 61.2804. In addition, the measures described in
sub-sections (a)(l)(i)-(iii) and the limitations on the development described
in sub-section (a)(l)(iv) are necessary to protect the Pacific Ocean from
pollution and other harmful contaminants that are carried from the site to
the San Diego River and then discharged into the Pacific Ocean.

(2)	The City may reserve for itself, through easements or as it otherwise deems
necessary or appropriate, any and all rights and privileges necessary or convenient
to the City in carrying out any of its municipal functions on or through the site,
including but not limited to groundwater rights.

(3)	In order to prevent real-estate speculation, the total sale price of the site shall
under no circumstances be lower than the fair-market value of the property as
determined by any appraisal report submitted to the City between January 1,2015
and August 1, 2015.

(4)	The Qualified Recipient of the property shall provide written confirmation to the
City, prior to the transfer's completion, that the Qualified Recipient is read y,
willing, and able to receive the property immediately upon the transfer's closing
and subject to all other conditions imposed by this section. The deeds, covenants,
and other instruments necessary to transfer possession, ownership, or use of the
property from the City to the Qualified Recipient shall be recorded in the San Diego
County Recorder's Office.

(5)	All development of the site shall be consistent, to the extent practicable, with
the goal of creating a fully walkable, bikeable, transit-oriented site that serves
members of the university community, tourists, and City residents alike. To the
extent practicable, all structures on the site shall employ photovoltaic or next-

PR-09L0-095

N SD SDO-096

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

generation renewable-energy technology in order to generate electricity for on-site
use.

(6)	All financing for the development of the site under this sub-section (a) shall be the
responsibility of the Qualified Recipient, and nothing in this section is intended
to limit the financing mechanisms available to the Qualified Recipient. However,
nothing in this section authorizes the City to expend any funds or other resources
for any purpose, activity, or use authorized by this section except for the limited
purpose of assisting in the achievement of the goal specified in sub-section (a)

(5)	of this section.

(7)	The City shall comply with all other laws applicable to the sale.

(8)	The sale and development of the site contemplated by this sub-section (a) shall
not be exempt from the California Environmental Quality Act.

(9)	All proceeds received by the City from the sale contemplated by this sub-section

(a)	shall be allocated and deposited as required by law. It is the sense of the
qualified electors, in enacting sub-section (a), that any and all proceeds that may
be lawfully directed to the City's Infrastructure Improvement Fund should be used
for the purposes of the Fund.

(10)	The conditions, limitations, and procedures prescribed throughout this sub-section

(a)	are intended to expedite the process of transferring possession, ownership,
or use of the Qualcomm Stadium site to the Qualified Recipient for the purposes
set forth in sub-section (a). Such purposes constitute bona fide governmental
purposes under City Charter Section 221. Furthermore, to the extent that the
sale or development authorized by this section constitutes a sale or exchange
that requires ratification of the electors under Section 221, the enactment of this
section is intended to constitute the requisite ratification.

(11)	As used in this sub-section (a), "Qualified Recipient" also includes San Diego
State University, the University of California at San Diego, the San Diego River
Conservancy, any San Diego Community College, or any combination of such
public agencies, any private party (including but not limited to for-profit and
non-profit entities), or any combination of the foregoing that seeks to obtain the
approximately 166-acre site for the purpose of obtaining the entitlements to carry
out the design, development, financing, construction, operation, and maintenance
of the site in accordance with the conditions, limitations, procedures, and other
requirements and intended uses set forth in sub-section (a) and to subsequently
provide for possession, ownership, use, or other control of all or portions of the
site to one or more of the aforementioned public agencies as necessary to satisfy
such requirements and intended uses; "San Diego State University" includes any
and all of the SDSU auxiliary organizations and foundations, and the Trustees
of the California State University acting for the benefit of SDSU; "University of
California at San Diego" includes any and all of the UCSD auxiliary organizations
and foundations, and the Regents of the University of California acting for the
benefit of UCSD; "San Diego Community College" includes any and all community
colleges located in the City of San Diego and each college's board of trustees
acting for the college s benefit; and "San Diego Chargers" and "Chargers" include
any successor in interest.

(b)	Except as provided in sub-section (c) of this section, nothing in this Division is intended
(i) to affect the project that is within the scope of that certain Draft Environmental Impact
Report for the Qualcomm Stadium Reconstruction Project (City of San Diego Project
No. 437916; State Clearinghouse No. 2015061061); (ii) to exempt the project that is
the subject of the Draft Environmental Impact Report from the California Environmental
Quality Act; (iii) as a vote of the qualified electors to authorize or endorse any expenditure

PR-09L0-096

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

of public funds for the project that is the subject of the Draft Environmental Impact
Report or to otherwise affect the spending authority of the City with regard to such an
expenditure; or (iv) as a vote of the qualified electors to authorize or endorse any sale
or other disposition of the Qualcomm Stadium site other than what is described in sub-
section (a) of this section.

(c)	Because of the extraordinary environmental benefits of protecting the San Diego River
as a tributary to the Pacific Ocean, enhancing public access to the River, creating
recreational and environmental opportunities for tourists and residents along the
River, improving water quality, and creating important open space in Mission Valley,
and because Qualcomm Stadium has operated in Mission Valley for decades and the
operation of a new stadium would have fewer adverse environmental impacts than
the existing stadium, the project described in that certain Draft Environmental Impact
Report identified in sub-section (b) of this section shall be exempt from the California
Environmental Quality Act if all of the following conditions are satisfied:

(1)	The City Council certifies a final version of the Draft Environmental Impact Report,
and no aspect of the scope of the project under the final certified version in any
way exceeds the scope of the project as described in the Draft Environmental
Impact Report, including but not limited to the project's size, facilities, and use.

(2)	The final certified version of the Draft Environmental Impact Report contains at
least the same mitigation measures that are specified in the Draft Environmental
Impact Report and a requirement that all development of the site be consistent
with ensuring adequate and appropriately managed riparian buffers for protecting
riparian habitat of the San Diego River and Murphy Canyon Creek corridors.

(3)	None of the mitigation measures in the final certified version of the Draft
Environmental Impact Report is less stringent than the mitigation measures that
are specified in the Draft Environmental Impact Report, and all of the mitigation
measures in the final certified version are adopted to the same extent as, and
enforceable in the same manner as, mitigation measures for the project as if it
were not exempt from the California Environmental Quality Act.

(4)	No later than the time when the City Council certifies the final version of the Draft
Environmental Impact Report, the City has made a binding legal commitment to
develop the remainder of the Qualcomm Stadium site in accordance with sub-
section (a) of this section.

(5)	The project fully complies with the Jobs and Economic Improvement Through
Environmental Leadership Act of 2011 as it existed on October 26,2015, including
but not limited to satisfying the California Legislature's finding and declaration
in Public Resources Code Section 21178(e) that the project does not require any
taxpayer financing by or from any pu blic agency, including but not limited to the
City.

If the City fails to satisfy each of the foregoing conditions, then sub-section (b) shall
continue to apply and the City may proceed with the project but without the exemption
provided by this sub-section (c).

§61.2807 Financial Incentives and Conditions for Tourism-Related Facilities and Infrastructure

(a)	Except as expressly authorized in sub-sections (b)-(d) of this section, the City shall not
directly or indirectly provide any form or manner of financial support, lend its cred it,
pledge anything of value, allow any public asset to be used for less than fair-market
value as determined by an independent fee appraiser, or otherwise make any kind of
expenditure or commitment for a future expenditure that would in any way facilitate
either of the following:

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

(1)	The development, design, entitlement, construction, operation, or maintenance
of any structure, facility, infrastructure, or use described in Section 61.2804(b)

(l)-(3); or

(2)	Any activity or service in furtherance of any structure, facility, infrastructure, or use
described in Section 6 l.2804(b)(1)-(3) other than public activities and services
generally made available throughout the City to the public at large, such as police,
fire protection, water, and sewer service.

Nothing in this sub-section (a) shall be construed as prohibiting the City from making
any real property it owns or controls within the Overlay Zone available on terms that
the City deems reasonable in order to facilitate any development, design, entitlement,
construction, operation, or maintenance of any structure, facility, infrastructure,
or use described in Section 61.2804(b)(1) or (b)(3) or any activity or service in
furtherance thereof, or in furtherance of the public's interest in maximizing the City's
Transient Occupancy Tax revenues including, without reservation, the capture and use
of Transient Occupancy Tax increment generated from new construction projects. Any
assistance provided by the City pursuant to this paragraph shall comply with all other
applicable legal requirements.

Further, nothing in this sub-section (a) shall apply to a project on a parcel within
the geographic boundaries of the Overlay Zone that received any land-use approval
before this Division takes effect.

It is the sense of the qualified electors that the highest and best use of land within the
Overlay Zone is an off-waterfront expansion of the San Diego Convention Center.

(b)	Any Operator of a Hotel who pays an assessment to the Downtown Tourism-Financed
Improvement District created in accordance with the requirements of Section 61.2802
may, in the Operator's sole discretion, deduct from the Transient Occupancy Tax remitted
to the City by the Operator pursuant to Division 1 of Article 5 of Chapter 3 of this
Municipal Code a portion of the assessment paid by the Operator to the district, subject
to all of the following procedures and limitations:

(1)	The deduction from the Transient Occupancy Tax remittance may be taken no
sooner than when the Operator remits its assessment for the district and only to
the extent of the assessment amount being paid with the remittance.

(2)	Regardless of how frequently an Operator remits Transient Occupancy Tax, under
no circumstances may the deduction from any remittance exceed the total amount
of the assessment actually paid by the Operator during the remittance period or
the deduction ceiling for that period, whichever is less. As used in this sub-section

(b)(2), "deduction ceiling" means the product of the total Rent subject to Transient
Occupancy Tax during the remittance period multiplied by 2%.

For example, assuming that the total Rent during the remittance period is $100,
the deduction ceiling described in this sub-section would be represented by the
following formula: $100 * 0.02 = $2.

(c)	Any Operator of a Hotel who pays an assessment to the Suburban Tourism-Financed
Improvement District created in accordance with the requirements of Section 61.2802
may, in the Operator s sole discretion, deduct from the Transient Occupancy Tax remitted
to the City by the Operator pursuant to Division 1 of Article 5 of Chapter 3 of this
Municipal Code a portion of the assessment paid by the Operator to the district, subject
to all of the following procedures and limitations:

(1) The deduction from the Transient Occupancy Tax remittance may be taken no
sooner than when the Operator remits its assessment for the district and only to
the extent of the assessment amount being paid with the remittance.

PR-09L0-098

N SD SDO-099

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

(2)	Regardless of how frequently an Operator remits Transient Occupancy Tax, under
no circumstances may the deduction from any remittance exceed the total amount
of the assessment actually paid by the Operator during the remittance period
or the deduction ceiling for that period, whichever is less. As used in this sub-
section (c)(2), "deduction ceiling" means the product of the total Rent subject to
Transient Occupancy Tax during the remittance period multiplied by the actual rate
of assessment up to 2%.

For example, assuming that the total Rent during the remittance period is $100,
and that the actual rate of assessment is 1.5%, the deduction ceiling described
in this sub-section would be represented by the following formula: $100 * 0.015
= $1.50.

(3)	The other provisions of this sub-section (c) notwithstanding, no deduction may
be taken if the Operator is not being assessed by the district (i) at the rate of not
more than 0.25% forthe maintenance, repair, restoration, or remodeling of the San
Diego Convention Center within its existing physical footprint in the coastal zone;
and (ii) at the additional rate of at least 0.25% for the acquisition, development,
design, entitlement, construction, operation, and maintenance of the structures,
facilities, infrastructure, and uses necessary for an expansion of the San Diego
Convention Center in the Overlay Zone.

(d)	Any Operator of a Hotel who pays an assessment to a tourism marketing district that is
not operating under the San Diego Tourism Marketing District Procedural Ordinance as
codified in Division 25 of Article 1 of Chapter 6 of this Municipal Code at the time this
section takes effect may, in the Operator's sole discretion, deduct from the Transient
Occupancy Tax remitted to the City by the Operator pursuant to Division 1 of Article 5
of Chapter 3 of this Municipal Code a portion of the assessment paid by the Operator to
the tourism marketing district, subject to all of the following procedures and limitations:

(1)	The deduction from the Transient Occupancy Tax remittance may be taken no
sooner than when the Operator remits its assessment for the district and only to
the extent of the assessment amount being paid with the remittance.

(2)	Regardless of how frequently an Operator remits Transient Occupancy Tax, under
no circumstances may the deduction from any remittance exceed the total amount
of the assessment actually paid by the Operator during the remittance period or
the deduction ceiling for that period, whichever is less. As used in this sub-section

(d)(2), "deduction ceiling" means the product of the total Rent subject to Transient
Occupancy Tax during the remittance period multiplied by 0.55% in the case of a
Hotel with less than 30 rooms available for Occupancy, or by 2% in the case of a
Hotel with at least 30 rooms available for Occupancy.

For example, assuming that the total Rent during the remittance period is $100 for
an Operator of a Hotel with at least 30 rooms, the deduction ceiling described in
this sub-section would be represented by the following formula: $100 * 0.02 = $2.

As a further example, assuming that the total Rent during the remittance period
is $100 for an Operator of a Hotel with less than 30 rooms, the deduction ceiling
described in this sub-section would be represented by the following formula:
$100 * 0.0055 = $0.55.

(e)	Sub-sections (b)-(d) of this section shall have no force or effect while Section 35.0128(a)
of this Municipal Code remains in force and effect.

PR-09L0-099

NSD SDO-IOO

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

§61.2808 Governance of Tourism Sales and Marketing and Convention Center Bookings; Withdrawal
of Authority to Outsource Governance and Bookings; Alternative Financing for Off-
Waterfront Convention Center Expansion

(a)	In order to maximize the City's Transient Occupancy Tax revenues, as well as optimize
the planning and budgeting process for tourism- and entertainment-related facilities
and infrastructure, it is the sense of the qualified electors that the City shall take all
reasonable steps to consolidate City-wide tourism and San Diego Convention Center
management, sales and marketing, and bookings.

(b)	The City may enter into a management agreement with a private contractor to manage
and oversee the operations and maintenance of the San Diego Convention Center,
including any related facility outside the coastal zone. Any such agreement shall be
subject to the following procedures and limitations:

(1)	The management agreement shall give the contractor responsibility for all short-
term and long-term bookings at the Convention Center and any related facility
under the City's control immediately prior to the making of the agreement.

(2)	The management agreement shall require the contractor to assume all liabilities,
debts, and other contractual obligations, and other obligations of the City, the
San Diego Convention Center Corporation, and the Convention Center Expansion
Financing Authority in existence at the time the agreement between the City and
the contractor is made, including but not limited to deferred maintenance and
current maintenance, labor and employment agreements, booking commitments,
and lease agreements; except that the contractor need not assume, and the City
shall retain, the City's debt-service obligations under any indentures and related
contractual obligations for bonded indebtedness related to the Convention Center.
Except as expressly permitted in the preceding sentence, the contractor may not
assume less than all such liabilities, debts, contractual obligations, and other
obligations. Prior to the City's approval of the management agreement, the
contractor shall submit a detailed written plan specifying how and when each
assumed obligation will be satisfied. The plan shall ensure that all obligations that
were not satisfied by the City prior to its approval of the management agreement,
and all obligations that must be satisfied by the City during the term of the
management agreement but are being assumed by the contractor, are satisfied
by the contractor in a timely manner and in any event no later than the end of the
term of the management agreement. Not more than 90 days after the end of each
fiscal year of the contractor, the contractor's chief executive officer or president
shall certify under penalty of perjury that the contractor satisfied all obligations
that were required to be satisfied according to the plan during the ended fiscal year.
The annual certification shall include the information required by sub-sections (b)
(ll)(i)-(ii) of this section. The City shall not make any payment to the contractor,
including any reimbursement, more than 90 days after the end of the contractor's
fiscal year unless and until the City receives the certification required by this sub-
section.

(3)	The City may not compensate the contractor or provide any direct or indirect
financial support of any kind to the contractor in connection with the management
agreement, except as expressly authorized by sub-section (b)(4) of this section.
The contractor may hire a fee-for-service manager to carry out the contractor's
obligations under the management agreement, at no cost to the City. The
contractor's decision to hire such a manager shall not relieve the contractor of its
obligations to ensure the performance required by the management agreement
with the City, or change the nature of the relationship between the City and the
contractor under the agreement.

PR-09L0-100

N SD SDO-IOI

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

(4)	The City, the contractor, or both may enter into any other agreement with any
third party for the purpose of generating assessments or other revenues that
can be used by the contractor to promote the City as a tourist destination or to
compensate the contractor for its services under the management agreement
with the City, provided that there is no cost to the City beyond that authorized by
sub-section (b)(3) of this section. Nothing in this paragraph relieves the City of
its obligation to comply with all applicable laws if its involvement is required for
the generation of such assessments or revenues.

(5)	The contractor's governing body shall have at least one member who meets all of
the following criteria:

(i)	The member has been an auditor, forensic accountant, certified public
accountant, or attorney with finance experience for at least five consecutive
years prior to appointment to the governing body.

(ii)	The member has certified under penalty of perjury that not more than 10%
of the value of his or her non-retirement investments during the preceding
five years has been in one or more tourism-related businesses.

(iii)	The member has certified under penalty of perjury that not more than 10%
of his or her gross income during the preceding five years has come from
one or more tourism-related businesses.

(iv)	The member is recommended by the Mayor and approved by the City
Council.

(6)	The contractor's governing body shall have at least one member who meets all of
the following criteria:

(i)	The member is a member of a labor union for at least one year prior to
appointment to the governing body.

(ii)	The member is recommended by the Mayor and approved by the City
Council.

(7)	The management agreement may not contain any term or provision that is
inconsistent with this section, but it may contain any other term or provision that
is consistent with this section and that the City deems necessary or appropriate.

(8)	The contractor may be, but is not required to be, a tourism-financed improvement
district created and approved under Sections 61.2802 and 61.2803; or a tourism
marketing district that is operating under a legal authority other than the San Diego
Tourism Marketing District Procedural Ordinance as codified in Division 25 of
Article 1 of Chapter 6 of this Municipal Code at the time this section takes effect.

(9)	The contractor's governing board shall be subject to the Ralph M. Brown Act, and
the contractor shall be subject to the California Public Records Act, for all purposes
related to the management agreement.

(10)	A fiduciary relationship between the contractor and the City under the- management
agreement is created by this section, with the contractor being required to act
as a fiduciary toward the City and over all of the assets, operations, and other
subject matter of the agreement. This relationship includes but is not limited to the
contractor's obligation to maximize the City's return on the assets, operations, and
other subject matter of the management agreement. Any management agreement
under which the contractor is not deemed to be a fiduciary shall be void ab initio.

(11)	The annual certification required under sub-section (b)(2) of this section shall
include all of the following information:

PR-09L0-101

N SD SDO-102

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

(i)	The City's total Transient Occupancy Tax revenues during the recently
completed fiscal year that were directly attributable to events taking place
at the San Diego Convention Center during that fiscal year.

(ii)	The City's total expenditures related to the San Diego Convention Center
during the recently completed fiscal year.

(12)	If any labor agreement expires and the parties reach an impasse in attempting to
renegotiate, extend, amend, or otherwise modify that agreement, the matter shall
be submitted to binding arbitration.

(c)	The City shall have no authority to enter into a management agreement as described
in sub-section (b) of this section or any other agreement with a private contractor
concerning the management of or bookings at the San Diego Convention Center, unless
and until the following condition is satisfied:

(1) A tourism-financed improvement district has been created and approved under
Sections 61.2802 and 61.2803 exclusively for the acquisition, development,
design, entitlement, construction, operation, and maintenance of the structures,
facilities, infrastructure, and uses necessary for an expansion of the San Diego
Convention Center in the Overlay Zone with a size deemed appropriate by the City,
and all required maintenance, for a period of operation not less than 20 years.

(d)	If the condition described in sub-section (c) of this section is not satisfied by the last
day of the sixtieth calendar month after this section takes effect, then all of the following
shall apply:

(1)	The City's authority to enter into a management agreement pursuant to sub-
section (b) of this section shall be deemed withdrawn, and sub-section (b) shall
have no further force or effect.

(2)	Sections 61.2802 and 61.2803 shall be deemed withdrawn and shall have no
further force or effect, and no district created thereunder shall have the legal
authority to continue its operations.

§61.2809 Definitions

(a)	As used in this Division, "coastal zone" means the geographical area defined by California
Public Resources Code Section 30103 (and any regulations thereunder), regardless of
whether the City has land-use or other regulatory authority within the area.

(b)	As used in this Division, "City" shall include any and all departments, agencies, and
offices of the City, and shall also include each and every discretely presented component
unit, blended component unit, or other component unit of the City as identified in the
Comprehensive Annual Financial Report for the City of San Diego for Fiscal Year Ended
June 30,2014, and each and every component unit of any kind that may be included in
a future Comprehensive Annual Financial Report for the City of San Diego.

(c)	As used in Section 61.2808, "private contractor" means an entity that is not a discretely
presented component unit, blended component unit, or other component unit of the City
as identified in the Comprehensive Annual Financial Report for the City of San Diego for
Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2014.

(d)	As used in this Municipal Code, "independent fee appraiser" means an appraiser who
is selected for the assignment solely by the City, and who certifies in writing under
penalty of pel jury and based on personal knowledge that he or she has had no financial
relationship of any kind with any party to the proposed transaction other than the City
within a one-year period prior to being selected by the City for the assignment.

(e)	As used in Sections 61.2802 and 61.2807, "Operator" and "Hotel" have the same
meanings that they have under Section 35.0102 of this Municipal Code.

PR-09L0-102

N SD SDO-103

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

(f)	As used in this Division, "project" has the same meaning that it has under California
Public Resources Code Section 21065.

(g)	As used in this Division, "qualified electors" has the same meaning that it has under San
Diego City Charter Section 6.

(h)	As used in this Division, "California Public Records Act" refers to the California Public
Record Act, California Government Code Section 6250 etseq.

(i)	As used in this Division, "Ralph M. Brown Act" refers to the Ralph M. Brown Act,
California Government Code Section 54950 etseq.

(j)	As used in this Division, "California Environmental Quality Act" refers to the California
Environmental Quality Act, California Public Resources Code Section 21000 etseq.

(k)	As used in Section 61.2802, "Transient Occupancy Registration Certificate" has the same
meaning that it has under Section 35.0113 of this Municipal Code.

(l)	As used in Section 61.2807(b)-(d), "Rent" has the same meaning that it has under
Section 35.0102 of this Municipal Code.

(m)	As used in this Division, "Property and Business Improvement District Law of 1994"
and "PBID Law" refer to the Property and Business Improvement District Law of 1994,
California Streets and Highways Code, Division 18, Part 7, Section 36600 etseq.

§61.2810	Construction of Division

In the event of any conflict between one or more provisions of this Division and any other
provision of the Municipal Code, the provisions of this Division shall govern to the extent of
the conflict. In the event of any conflict between one or more provisions of this Division and
any provision of the Property and Business Improvement District Law of 1994, this Division
shall control to the extent of the conflict.

§61.2811	Limitations Period for Judicial Review

No action to challenge the validity of any portion of this Division shall be maintained unless
such action is commenced within 90 days after the Division takes effect.

Part 5. Effective Date; Amendment

This Ordinance shall take effect 30 days after the date of the election at which the qualified electors approve it.
The Ordinance may be repealed or amended only by a vote of the qualified electors. As used in this paragraph
and the next paragraph, "qualified electors" has the same meaning that it has under San Diego City Charter
Section 6.

Part 6. Interdependence; Interpretation

The provisions of Part 4 of this Ordinance are inseparably interconnected and interdependent. If any portion of
Part 4 of this Ordinance is held to be invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction after any and all appeals are
complete, then none of the remaining portions of the Ordinance shall have any force or effect.

The need for responsible comprehensive and integrated planning, financing, management, and sales and
marketing for major tourism- and entertainment-related resources as described in this Ordinance is so
important to the qualified electors voting on this measure that if any portion of Part 4 of the Ordinance is
invalid as described above then the remaining portions of the Ordinance would not have been approved by
them without the invalid portion of Part 4.

Nothing in this Ordinance is intended to conflict with any requirement, prohibition, or other provision of the
San Diego City Charter, the California Constitution, or any other controlling legal authority. Constructions of this
Ordinance that give rise to such a conflict shall be avoided to the maximum extent permitted by law.

Part 7. Resolution of Conflicting Provisions in Other Measures

In the event that this Ordinance and another ordinance or ordinances relating to one or more portions of the
subject matter of this Ordinance pass at the same election, but this Ordinance receives a greater number of

NSD SDO-104

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

affirmative votes, it is the intent of the People of the City of San Diego that the provisions of this Ordinance shall
prevail in their entirety and the provisions of all other related ordinances shall be null and void.

The other provisions of law notwithstanding, in the event that this Ordinance and another ordinance or
ordinances relating to one or more portions of the subject matter of this Ordinance pass at the same election,
but such other ordinance or ordinances receive a greater number of affirmative votes, it is the intention of the
People of the City of San Diego that the provisions of this Ordinance shall also take effect to the extent that
they are not in direct conflict with the provisions of such other ordinance or ordinances.

Part 8. Defending the Ordinance

In the event that the City declines to defend or declines to appeal an adverse judgment against the Ordinance, it
is the intent of the People of the City of San Diego to grant formal legal authority to the Ordinance's proponents
or any of their designees to defend this Ordinance, either by intervening in or by defending the Ordinance on
behalf of the People and the City in a legal proceeding, because the proponents of this Ordinance have a direct
and personal stake in defending this Ordinance.

In the event that a proponent or a proponent's designee is defending this Ordinance in a legal proceeding
because the City has declined to defend it or declined to appeal an adverse judgment against it, the proponent
or the proponent's designee shall: (1) act as agents of the People of the City of San Diego who approved this
Ordinance and the City; (2) enjoy and be subject to all ethical, legal, and fiduciary rights and duties applicable
to agents of the People and the City in such legal proceedings; and (3) take or be subject to the Oath of Office
prescribed by Section 211 of the San Diego City Charter for the limited purpose of acting on behalf of the People
and the City in such legal proceeding.

No action to challenge the validity of any portion of this Ordinance shall be maintained unless such action is
commenced within 90 days after the Ordinance takes effect. In the event of such a challenge, the summons
and complaint shall be served, as required by law, on the City and on the proponent of this Ordinance not more
than 30 days after the challenge is commenced. The court shall dismiss any challenge that is not commenced
within the time period prescribed in this paragraph.

If any of the deadlines prescribed in the preceding paragraph is held to be invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the court shall be authorized to reform the deadline to the shortest period of time permissible by
law.

Part 9. Proponent Accountability

The People of the City of San Diego hereby declare that the proponent of this Ordinance should be held civilly
liable if this Ordinance, after passage, is struck down in whole or in part, by a court of competent jurisdiction
for being impermissible pursuant to the federal law, state law, the city charter, or any other controlling legal
authority. Such an impermissible Ordinance is a misuse of the City's electoral resources, and the proponent
must be held accountable for such an occurrence.

If this Ordinance, after passage, is struck down in whole or in part, by a court of competent jurisdiction for being
impermissible pursuant to the federal law, state law, the city charter, or any other controlling legal authority,
and all avenues for appealing and overturning the court's decision have been exhausted, the proponent shall
pay a civil penalty of $5,000 to the City's General Fund for failure to be the proponent of a wholly permissible
Ordinance. No party or entity may waive this civil penalty.

Relevant Documents Referred to in the Ordinance
Division 1 of Article 5 of Chapter 3 of the San Diego Municipal Code, Transient Occupancy Tax

Section 35.0101 Purpose and Intent

(a)	It is the purpose and intent of the City Council that there shall be imposed a tax on
Transients.

(b)	Some of the proceeds of the tax on Transients shall be used for promoting the City of
San Diego, including the planning, construction, maintenance and operation of tourist-
related cultural, recreational and convention facilities, as more particularly set forth in

N SD SDO-105

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

Chapter 3, Article 5, Division 1, and for those additional general governmental purposes
as more particularly set forth in Chapter 3, Article 5, Division 1, as the City Council
may from time to time provide in accordance with the Charter of the City and the City
Council's appropriation ordinance.

Section 35.0102 Definitions

The following definitions are applicable to Chapter 3, Article 5, Division 1:

"Campground" means any park or real property where a Person may locate a tent, trailer, tent trailer, pick-up,
camper, or other similar temporary structure for the purposes of lodging, dwelling, or sleeping, whether or not
water, electricity, or sanitary facilities are provide.

"Collected" means the time at which the Rent is earned if an Operator uses the accrual basis of accounting, or
the time at which Rent is received if an Operator uses the cash basis of accounting. "Hotel" means any structure
or any portion of any structure which is occupied, or intended or designed for Occupancy, by Transients for
dwelling, lodging, or sleeping purposes, and is held out as such to the public.

"Hotel" does not mean any hospital, convalescent home, or sanitarium.

"Occupancy" means the use or possession, or the right to the use or possession, of any room, or portion
thereof, in any Hotel, or space in a Recreational Vehicle Park, or Campground for dwelling, lodging, or sleeping
purposes.

"Operator" means the Person who is the proprietor of the Hotel, Recreational Vehicle Park, or Campground,
whether in the capacity of owner, lessee, sublessee, mortgagee in possession, licensee, or any other capacity.
"Operator" includes a managing agent, a resident manager, or a resident agent, of any type or character, other
than an employee without management responsibility.

"Recreational Vehicle" means any passenger vehicle, house car, trailer coach, camper, or camper trailer, as
defined in California Vehicle Code sections 242, 243, 362, 465, 635, or California Health and Safety Code
section 18010.

"Recreational Vehicle Park" means any park or location where a Recreational Vehicle may be parked for the
purposes of lodging, dwelling, or sleeping, whether or not water, electricity, or sanitary hookup facilities are
provided. A "Recreational Vehicle Park" may include a Campground.

"Rent" means the total consideration charged to a Transient as shown on the guest receipt for the Occupancy of
a room, or portion thereof, in a Hotel, or a space in a Recreational Vehicle Park or Campground. "Rent" includes
charges for utility and sewer hookups, equipment, (such as rollaway beds, cribs and television sets, and similar
items), and in-room services (such as movies and other services not subject to California taxes), valued in
money, whether received or to be received in money, goods, labor, or otherwise. "Rent" includes all receipts,
cash, credits, property, and services of any kind or nature without any deduction therefrom.

"Successor to Operator" means any person who acquires the right to operate a hotel, recreational vehicle park,
or campground from a predecessor Operator, directly or indirectly, by whatever means, including purchase,
foreclosure, operation of lease, or other means. A transfer of an ownership or management interest in a hotel,
recreational vehicle park, or campground wherein the facility continues to operate as such, either continuously
or for business interruption not exceeding thirty days, shall constitute a succession for purposes of this division.

"Transient" means any Person who exercises Occupancy, or is entitled to Occupancy, by reason of concession,
permit, right of access, license, or other agreement for a period of less than one (1) month. A month is defined
as the period of consecutive days from the first calendar day of Occupancy in any month to the same calendar
day in the next month following, or the last day of the next month following if no corresponding calendar day
exists.

Section 35.0103 Tax Imposed

For the privilege of Occupancy in any Hotel located in The City of San Diego, each Transient is subject to and
shall pay a tax in the amount of six percent (6%) of the Rent charged by the Operator.

PR-09L0-105

NSDSDO-106

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

Section 35.0104 Additional Tax Imposed

Notwithstanding the tax imposed by Section 35.0103 and in addition thereto, commencing on January 1,1985
for the privilege of Occupancy in any Hotel, each Transient is subject to and shall pay an additional tax in the
amount of one percent (1%) of the Rent charged by the Operator.

Section 35.0105 Additional Tax Imposed

Notwithstanding the tax imposed by Sections 35.0103 or 35.0104 and in addition thereto, commencing on
August 1,1988 for the privilege of Occupancy in any Hotel, each Transient is subject to and shall pay an
additional tax in the amount of one percent (1%) of the Rent charged by the Operator.

Section 35.0106 Additional Tax Imposed

Notwithstanding the tax imposed by Sections 35.0103,35.0104 or 35.0105 and in addition thereto, commencing
on June 1,1989, for the privilege of Occupancy in any Hotel, each Transient is subject to and shall pay an
additional tax in the amount of one percent (1%) of the Rent charged by the Operator.

Section 35.0107 Recreational Vehicle Park and Campground User Tax Imposed

Commencing on September 1, 1990, for the privilege of Occupancy in any Recreational Vehicle Park or
Campground, each Transient is subject to and shall pay a tax in the amount of nine percent (9%) of the Rent
charged by the Operator.

Section 35.0108 Additional Tax Imposed

Notwithstanding the tax imposed by Sections 35.0103,35.0104,35.0105,35.0106, or 35.0107 and in addition
thereto, commencing on August 1,1994, for the privilege of Occupancy in any Hotel, any Recreational Vehicle
Park, or any Campground, each Transient is subject to and shall pay an additional tax in the amount of one and
one half percent (1.5%) of the Rent charged by the Operator.

Section 35.0110 Tax as Debt; Time and Manner of Payment

(a)	Any tax imposed pursuant to Chapter 3, Article 5, Division 1, constitutes a debt owed
by each Transient to the City which is extinguished only by payment to the Operator or
to the City.

(b)	Each Transient shall pay any tax imposed pursuant to Chapter 3, Article 5, Division 1,
to the Operator of the Hotel, the Recreational Vehicle Park, or the Campground at the
time Rent is paid.

(c)	If Rent is paid in installments, a proportionate share of the tax shall be paid by each
Transient with each installment.

(d)	The unpaid tax shall be due upon each Transient's ceasing to occupy a room, or portions
thereof, in a Hotel, or space in a Recreational Vehicle Park or a Campground.

(e)	Iffor any reason the tax due is not paid by the Transient to the Operator of the Hotel, the
Recreational Vehicle Park, or the Campground, the City Treasurer may require that the
tax be paid directly to the City Treasurer.

Section 35.0111 Exemptions

(a)	No tax shall be due or collected pursuant to Chapter 3, Article 5, Division 1, in the
following cases:

(1)	when the Transient has exercised Occupancy or was entitled to Occupancy for one
month or more;

(2)	when the total space rental charge at a Campground or Recreational Vehicle Park
or the room rental charge in a Hotel is twenty-five dollars ($25.00) a day or less
or the accommodations rented are in a dormitory and the total Rent for each
Transient is twenty-five dollars ($25.00) a day or less; or

(3)	when the Transient is by treaty, or federal law, or state law exempt from payment
of transient occupancy taxes; or

(4)	when Hotel Rents are directly paid by the United States Government or the State
of California or their respective instrumentalities. This exemption does not exempt

PR-09L0-106

N SD SDO-107

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

a transient who is employed by an exempt entity from payment of the tax when
the payment is later to be reimbursed by the entity.

(b)	Any Person who occupies a room, or any portion thereof, in a Hotel, or space in a
Recreational Vehicle Park or Campground, or is entitled to Occupancy thereof, for a
period of one (1) month or more, shall be deemed not to have been a Transient with
respect to the first month of Occupancy or entitlement to Occupancy.

Section 35.0112 Operator's Duties and Accounting Procedures

(a)	Each Operator shall collect the tax imposed by Chapter 3, Article 5, Division 1, to the
same extent and at the same time as the Rent is collected from every Transient.

(b)	If an Operator collects the Rent but fails to collect the tax imposed by Chapter 3, Article
5, Division 1, for any reason, the City shall require the Operator to pay the tax.

(c)	The amount of tax charged each Transient shall be separately stated from the amount of
Rent charged, and each Transient shall receive a receipt for payment from the Operator.

(d)	A duplicate of the receipt given to each Transient shall be kept by the Operator in
accordance with Section 35.0121.

(e)	No Operator of a Hotel, a Recreational Vehicle Park, or a Campground shall advertise
or state in any manner, whether directly or indirectly, that the tax charged pursuant to
Chapter 3, Article 5, Division 1, or any part thereof, will be assumed or absorbed by
the Operator or that it will not be added to the Rent or that, if added, any part will be
refunded except in the manner hereinafter provided.

(f)	Each Operator shall account separately for, and maintain separate monthly summary
totals for taxable and nontaxable Rents and for taxes collected.

(g)	Each Operator shall maintain its financial and accounting records in accordance with
established accounting principles acceptable to the City Treasurer.

(h)	The costs of additional goods and services, which are not Rent, but which may be sold as
a package, or are complimentary with a room, or portion thereof, in a Hotel, or a space
in a Recreational Vehicle Park or Campground (such as golf, tennis, meals), shall be
accounted for in accordance with any administrative rules and regulations promulgated
by the City Treasurer.

Section 35.0113 Registration

(a)	Within thirty (30) days after the effective date of this Article, or within thirty (30) days
after commencing business, whichever is later, each operator renting occupancy to
transients shall register with the City Treasurer and obtain a "Transient Occupancy
Registration Certificate" to be posted at all times in a conspicuous place on the premises.
Said certificate shall include the following:

(1)	The name of the operator;

(2)	The address;

(3)	The date upon which the certificate was issued;

(4)	The following statement: "This Transient Occupancy Registration certificate
signifies that the person named on the face hereof is required to collect a transient
occupancy tax from transients and to remit the same to the City Treasurer and has
fulfilled the requirements of the Transient Occupancy Tax Ordinance by registering
with the City Treasurer for the purpose of collecting from transients the Transient
Occupancy Tax and remitting said tax to the City Treasurer. This certificate does
not constitute a permit to operate a hotel, recreational vehicle park or campground
business."

PR-09L0-107

NSD SDO-108

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

(b)	It shall be unlawful to operate a hotel, recreational vehicle park or campground without
a Transient Occupancy Tax Certificate or to fail to post the certificate in a conspicuous
place at all times.

Section 35.0114 Remitting and Reporting

(a)	Each Operator shall remit monthly the full amount of taxes collected for the previous
month with the appropriate approved return form available from the City Treasurer.

(b)	Returns and taxes remitted monthly by an Operator and actually received by the City
Treasurer on or before the last day of the following month shall be deemed timely filed
and remitted; otherwise, the taxes are delinquent and subject to the penalties imposed
by Section 35.0116.

(c)	Returns shall be made by each Operator on a calendar month basis unless a reporting
basis other than a calendar month reporting period is approved. An Operator that desires
to utilize a reporting period other than a calendar month reporting period must request
and obtain written approval from the City Treasurer prior to the implementation of such
reporting plan.

(d)	Each Operator reporting on a calendar month basis shall submit, on or before the last
day of the following month, a return on the appropriate approved forms to the City
Treasurer of the total taxable Rents charged and the amount of tax collected for the
previous month and the balance of the tax due. At the time the return is filed, the full
amount of the balance of the tax due shall be remitted to the City Treasurer.

(e)	Each Operator reporting on an approved basis other than a calendar month basis shall
submit, on or before the same day of the next month following the close of such
reporting period, or on the last day of that month if no corresponding calendar day
exists, a return on the appropriate approved forms to the City Treasurer of the total
taxable Rents charged and the amount of tax collected for the month and the balance
of the tax due. At the time the return is filed, the full amount of the balance of the tax
due shall be remitted to the City Treasurer.

(f)	Returns filed and taxes remitted by mail shall be deemed timely filed only if the envelope
or similar container enclosing the returns and taxes is addressed to the City Treasurer,
has sufficient postage, and bears a United States postmark or a postage meter imprint
prior to midnight on the last day for reporting and remitting without penalty. If the
envelope or other container bears a postage meter imprint as well as a United States
Post Office cancellation mark, the latter shall govern in determining whether the filing
and remittance are timely.

(g)	All taxes collected by an Operator pursuant to Chapter 3, Article 5, Division 1, shall
be held in trust for the account of the City until payment thereof is made to the City
Treasurer.

(h)	All returns and payments submitted by each Operator shall be treated as confidential by
the City Treasurer and shall not be released except upon order of a court of competent
jurisdiction or to an officer or agent of the United States, the State of California, the
County of San Diego, or the City of San Diego for official use only.

(i)	The same basis for accounting used by an Operator for keeping books and records shall
be used for reporting and remitting.

Section 35.0115 Remitting and Reporting Requirements upon Cessation of Business

(a)	An operator who is transferring, selling or terminating its business shall notify the City
Treasurer in writing of such sale, transfer or termination and the name and address of
the purchaser or transferee at least thirty (30) days in advance of the date of transfer,
sale or termination, unless the decision to sell, transfer or terminate was made within
less than a thirty (30) day period prior to the transfer, sale or termination, in which case
the operator shall then immediately notify the City Treasurer.

N SD SDO-109

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

The operator shall, at the same time, notify the purchaser or transferee of their responsibility for unpaid collected
taxes as set forth in sections 35.0137 and 35.0138, and further certify in writing to the City Treasurer that the
transferee or purchaser was notified of the requirements of this Article regarding its responsibility for unpaid
collected taxes.

(b)	Cessation of Business. Each operator upon cessation of business for any reason shall,
on or before the same day of the next month following the cessation of business or
on the last day of that month if no correspond ing day exists, make a return to the
City Treasurer on approved forms of the total taxable rents charged, the amount of
tax collected for the reporting period, remittances made, if any, and the balance of the
tax due. At the time the return is filed, the full amount of the balance of the tax due, if
any, shall be remitted to the City Treasurer. After filing the final return and remitting the
balance due, the operator shall make his records of account available for a closeout
audit by the City Treasurer or duly authorized City employee. Returns filed and taxes
remitted and actually received by the City Treasurer on or before the same day of the
next month following the cessation of business or on the last day of that month if no
corresponding calendar day exits shall be deemed timely filed and remitted; otherwise,
the taxes are delinquent and subject to the penalties imposed by Section 35.0116.

(c)	The liability of the transferee or purchaser for transient occupancy taxes collected by
the transferor or seller is set forth in sections 35.0137 and 35.0138.

(d)	Any operator who fails to comply with the provisions of subsections (a) or (b) hereunder
is guilty of a misdemeanor.

Section 35.0116 Penalties

(a)	Delinquency. Any operator who fails to remit any tax imposed by this Article within
the time required shall pay a penalty computed at the rate of one percent (1%) for
the first day of delinquency and one-third of one percent (113 of 1%) for each day
thereafter, including Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays, but not to exceed twenty-five
percent (25%) of the amount of the tax due and payable for the entire reporting period
in addition to the amount of the tax.

(b)	Fraud. If the City Treasurer determines that the nonpayment of any remittance due under
this ordinance is due to fraud, a penalty of twenty-five percent (25%) of the amount of
the tax shall be added thereto in addition to the penalties stated in subparagraph (a) of
this section.

(c)	Audit Deficiency. If, upon audit by the City, an operator is found to be deficient in
either its return or its remittance or both, the City Treasurer shall immediately invoice
the operator for the amount of the net deficiency plus a penalty of ten percent (10%)
of the net deficiency. If the operator fails or refuses to pay the deficient amount and
applicable penalties within fourteen (14) days of the date of the City Treasurer's invoice,
an additional penalty shall be imposed at the rate of one-third of one percent (1/3 of
1%) per day of the net deficiency, not to exceed fifteen percent (15%) for a combined
total penalty not to exceed twenty-five percent (25%) of the net deficiency.

Section 35.0117 Failure to Collect or Report Tax-Jeopardy Determination

(a)	Determination of Tax by City Treasurer. If any operator shall fail or refuse to collect the
tax or to make, within the time provided in this Article, any report or remittance of said
tax or any portion hereof required by this Article or if such operator maintains records
which are inadequate to show the amount of tax due, the City Treasurer shall forthwith
assess the tax and penalties provided for by this Article against the operator.

(b)	Jeopardy Determinations. When an operator fails or refuses to make or file a timely
return or remittance of taxes, or when the City Treasurer or duly authorized employee
makes a determination, after having applied necessary and accepted auditing procedures
or by estimation if no records are available, that an operator is or will be unable to remit
any taxes collected or otherwise due at the prescribed time, the City Treasurer may

PR-09L0-109

N SD SDO-110

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

make a written Jeopardy Determination which shall be issued to the operator to require
the operator to thereafter furnish additional information or provide adequate security
as necessary to ensure collection of any taxes due or to become due, and to remit the
taxes on a daily or weekly basis. The operator shall thereafter report and remit all taxes
due under the terms and conditions prescribed by the City Treasurer. The City Treasurer
shall cancel the requirements imposed under the Jeopardy Determination once timely
accounting and remittance procedures have been established and the operator is
satisfying all obligations imposed by law for the remittance of taxes.

(c)	Notice. The City Treasurer shall deliver notice of the assessment or of the Jeopardy
Determination to the operator or deposit it in the United States mail, postage prepaid,
addressed to the operator at the last known place of business.

Section 35.0118 Administrative Remedies and Appeals

(a)	The operator may within fourteen (14) days after the serving or mailing of such notice
make application in writing to the City Treasurer for a hearing on the amount assessed
pursuant to section 35.0117. If timely application for a hearing is not made, the tax
and penalties determined by the City Treasurer shall become final and conclusive and
immediately due and payable. If such application is made, the City Treasurer shall give
not less than five (5) days written notice in the manner prescribed herein to the operator
of the time and place for a hearing before a board consisting of the City Treasurer,
the City Auditor and Comptroller and the Financial Management Director or the duly
appointed deputy of each. At the hearing, the operator may appear and offer evidence
why the specified tax and penalties should not be so fixed. The board shall consider all
evidence produced and shall determine the proper tax to be remitted. After the hearing,
the City Treasurer shall give written notice to the operator in the manner prescribed
herein of the determination and the amount of such tax and penalties. If the amount
remaining in dispute thereafter does not exceed $750.00, the decision of the hearing
board shall be final and conclusive and shall constitute the exhaustion of the operator's
administrative remedies. Any amount found to be due shall be payable within fourteen
(14) days of the serving or mailing of the determination of the tax due unless a further
appeal is filed with the City Manager as provided in this section within that fourteen (14)
day period for any amount in excess of $750.00.

(b)	When an appeal from the hearing board for remaining taxes and penalties exceeding
$750.00 is filed, the City Manager shall cause the appeal to be assigned to a Hearing
Officer, who shall schedule a hearing to be heard within a reasonable time thereafter.
The Hearing Officer shall be appointed by the City Manager, shall be a member of the
California State Bar and shall not be a City employee. The Hearing Officer shall be
compensated by The City of San Diego for the time spent on deciding an appeal.

(c)	The appellant and the City Manager or designate shall each have the right to appear in
person and be represented by legal counsel, to receive notice, to present evidence, to
call and cross-examine witnesses under oath and to present argument. The Hearing
Officer shall have the power to compel attendance of witnesses and documents by
Subpoena in accordance with the Civil Code. The formal rules of evidence shall not apply
and any relevant evidence that is the sort of evidence upon which responsible persons
are accustomed to rely in the conduct of serious business affairs shall be admissible.
Hearsay evidence may be considered by the Hearing Officer, but no findings may be
based solely on hearsay evidence unless supported or corroborated by other relevant
and competent evidence. The formal exceptions to the hearsay rule shall apply.

(d)	The Hearing Officer is authorized to rule upon issues of law or fact and to determine the
amount of the tax or penalty in accordance with this Article. The Hearing Officer shall not
have any jurisdiction to waive, mitigate or suspend the collection of any tax or penalty
found to be duly imposed.

PR-09L0-110

N SD SDO-111

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

(e)	The decision of the Hearing Officer shall be issued in writing no later than fourteen (14)
days after the conclusion of the hearing. The decision shall be the final administrative
remedy of the appellant and shall be binding upon the City Manager. Any amounts due
shall be immediately payable to the City Treasurer.

(f)	The City Manager shall promulgate supplementary rules and procedures for the conduct
of the hearing, the forms of notice and proceedings and the preparation and submission
of the record.

Section 35.0121 Records

It shall be the duty of every operator liable for the collection and payment to the city of any tax imposed by this
Article to keep and preserve, for a period of three years within the boundaries of this City, all business records
as may be necessary to determine the amount of such tax for which the operator is liable for collection and
payment to the City. The City Treasurer and authorized deputies or agents in the exercise of duties imposed by
this Article shall have the right to inspect such records at all reasonable times and to apply auditing procedures
necessary to determine the amount of tax due to the City. It shall be unlawful to refuse to allow or to permit
such audit to be conducted after a lawful demand therefor by the City Treasurer, or the City Auditor when so
requested by the City Treasurer.

Section 35.0122 Refunds

(a)	Whenever the amount of any tax or penalty has been overpaid, paid more than once or
has been erroneously or illegally collected or erroneously received by the City under this
article, the overpayment may be refunded provided a claim in writing under penalty of
perjury stating the specific grounds upon which the claim is founded is filed with the
City Treasurer within three years of the date of payment. The claim shall be on forms
available from the City Treasurer.

(b)	An operator may claim a refund or take as a credit against taxes collected and remitted
the amount overpaid, paid more than once or erroneously or illegally collected or
received when it is established in a manner prescribed by the City Treasurer that the
person from whom the tax has been collected was not a transient; provided, however,
that neither a refund nor a credit shall be allowed unless the amount of the tax so
collected has either been refunded to the transient or credited to rent subsequently
payable by the transient to the operator.

(c)	A transient may obtain a refund of taxes overpaid or paid more than once or erroneously
or illegally collected or received by the City by filing a claim in the manner provided in
subparagraph (a) of this section, but only when the transient having paid the tax to the
operator establishes to the satisfaction of the City Treasurer that the transient has been
unable to obtain a refund from the operator who collected the tax.

(d)	An operator who has remitted an amount in excess of the amount required to be paid by
this article may receive a credit to the extent of the excess. If the excess is discovered
as a result of an audit by the City, no claim need be filed by the operator. Such credit,
if approved by the Treasurer, shall be applied to any deficiency found or any further tax
payments due under the rules prescribed by the Treasurer.

(e)	No refund shall be paid under the provisions of this section unless the claimant
establishes his right thereto by written records showing entitlement thereto.

Section 35.0123 Actions to Collect Taxes and Enforcement of Liens

(a)	Any tax required to be paid by any transient under the provisions of this Article shall be
deemed a debt owed by the transient to the City and payable through the operator. Any
tax collected by an operator which has not been paid to the City shall be deemed funds
held in trust for the account of the City which are due and payable by the operator to
the City pursuant to the provisions of this Article. Any person owing money to the City
under the provisions of the Article shall be liable to an action brought in the name of
The City of San Diego for the recovery of such amount. Upon the concurrence of the
City Attorney and the City Auditor and Comptroller, the City Treasurer is authorized to

NSD SDO-112

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

compromise the collection of the amount or establish a schedule of payment for any tax
due, or to discontinue the collection of any claim if it appears that further proceedings
would be without merit.

(b)	Recording of a Certificate of Lien. If any amount required to be paid to the City under
this Article is not paid when due, the City Treasurer may record in the office of the San
Diego County Recorder a certificate which specifies the amount of tax and penalties
due, the name and address of the operator liable for the same, a statement that the City
Treasurer has complied with all provisions of this Article in the determination of the
amount required to be paid and a legal description of the real property owned by the
operator. From the time of the recording of the certificate, the amount required to be
paid together with penalties constitutes a lien upon all real property in the county owned
by the operator or thereafter acquired before the lien expires. The lien has the force,
effect and priority of a tax lien and shall continue for ten (10) years from the filing of
the certificate unless sooner released or otherwise discharged.

(c)	Warrant for Collection of Tax. At any time within three (3) years after the recording of
a certificate of lien under Section 35.0123(b), the City Treasurer may issue a warrant
directed to any sheriff or marshal for the enforcement of the lien and the collection of
any tax and penalties required to be paid to the City under this Article. The warrant shall
have the same effect as a writ of execution, and be executed in the same manner and
with the same effect as a levy and sale pursuant to a writ of execution. The City Treasurer
may pay or advance to the sheriff or marshal such fees, commissions and expenses for
services as are provided by law for similar services pursuant to a writ of execution.

(d)	Seizure and Sale. In lieu of issuing a warrant under subsection (c), at any time within
the three (3) years after an assessment was issued or a certificate of lien was recorded
under section 35.0123(b), the City Treasurer may collect the delinquent amount by
seizing or causing to be seized any property, real or personal, of the operator and sell
any noncash or nonnegotiable property or a sufficient part of it at public auction to pay
the amount of tax due together with any penalties and any costs incurred on account
of the seizure and sale. Any seizure made to collect taxes due shall only be of property
of the operator not exempt from execution under the provisions of the Code of Civil
Procedure.

Section 35.0124 Violations and Criminal Proceedings

(a)	Any operator who wilfully fails to collect or cause to be collected the transient occupancy
tax due from a transient is guilty of misdemeanor.

(b)	Any operator who wilfully fails to file or cause to be filed any return required by this
Article, or who files or causes to be filed a false return, or who wilfully fails or refuses
to remit or cause to be permitted any tax collected, or who refuses to allow an audit to
be conducted, is guilty of a misdemeanor.

(c)	The commencement of criminal proceedings shall neither preclude nor abate
administrative or civil actions to collect taxes due under this Article.

(d)	Violations under this section are continuing violations and each day the violation
continues constitutes a separate misdemeanor.

(e)	Any operator violating any of the other mandatory provisions of this Article shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor.

(f)	Violations shall be punishable as misdemeanors by a fine of not more than one thousand
dollars ($1,000) or by imprisonment in the County jail for a period of not more than six

(6)	months or by both such fine and imprisonment.

(g)	Non-defense. It shall not be a defense to violations of this Article that the operator,
including a resident manager, had forwarded any return due or tax collected to its

PR-09L0-112

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

principal or corporate headquarters, nor that any failure to file or remit taxes was based
on the direction or inaction of such principal or corporate headquarters.

Section 35.0127 Severability

If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this Article or any part thereof
is for any reason held to be unconstitutional, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining
portions of this Article or any part thereof. The City Council hereby declares that it would have passed each
section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that
any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases be declared
unconstitutional.

Section 35.0128 Utilization of Revenues from Tax Imposed by Section 35.0103

All revenues collected pursuant to the tax imposed by the City under Section 35.0103 shall be utilized as follows:

(a)	Two-thirds (2/3) of all revenues collected by the City and remaining after payment of two-
thirds (2/3) of the costs incurred in the administration of Chapter 3, Article 5, Division 1
shall be deposited in the Transient Occupancy Tax Fund and used solely for the purpose
of promoting the City. However, if the City Manager determines that anticipated revenues
in any fiscal year will be insufficient to maintain existing City services, the City Manager
may ask the City Council to temporarily suspend compliance with this subsection (a) for
the upcoming fiscal year. A majority vote of the City Council can temporarily suspend
compliance with this subsection (a) for that fiscal year.

(b)	One-sixth (1/6) of all revenue collected by the City and remaining after payment of one-
sixth (1/6) of the costs incurred in the administration of Chapter 3, Article 5, Division 1
shall be deposited in the Transient Occupancy Tax Fund. Money shall be expended from
this fund only by an ordinance appropriating part or all of the fund for any purpose the
City Council may direct, including, but not limited to, promotion of the City.

(c)	One-sixth (1/6) of all revenue collected by the City and remaining after payment of one-
sixth (1/6) of the costs incurred in the administration of Chapter 3, Article 5, Division 1
shall be deposited to the General Fund. An annual allocation, as determined by the City
Council, from revenues collected pursuant to the tax imposed by the City under Section
35.0103 may be deposited in the Housing Trust Fund of the City.

Section 35.0129 Utilization of Revenues from Additional Tax Imposed by Section 35.0104

All revenues collected pursuant to the tax imposed by the City under Section 35.0104 shall be deposited in the
General Fund of the City and be used for general governmental purposes as the City Council may from time
to time provide in accordance with the Charter of the City of San Diego and the City Council's appropriation
ordinance.

Section 35.0130 Utilization of Revenues from Additional Tax Imposed by Section 35.0105

All revenues collected pursuant to the tax imposed by the City under Section 35.0105 shall be deposited in the
General Fund of the City and be used for general governmental purposes as the City Council may from time
to time provide in accordance with the Charter of the City of San Diego and the City Council's appropriation
ordinance.

Section 35.0131 Utilization of Revenues from Additional Tax Imposed by Section 35.0106

All revenues collected pursuant to the tax imposed by the City under Section 35.0106 shall be deposited in the
General Fund of the City and be used for general governmental purposes as the City Council may from time
to time provide in accordance with the Charter of the City of San Diego and the City Council's appropriation
ordinance.

Section 35.0132 Utilization of Revenues From Tax Imposed by Section 35.0107

All revenues collected pursuant to the tax imposed by the City under Section 35.0107 shall be deposited in the
General Fund of the City and be used for general governmental purposes as the City Council may from time
to time provide in accordance with the Charter of the City of San Diego and the City Council's appropriation
ordinance.

NSD SDO-114

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

Section 35.0133 Utilization of Revenues From Tax Imposed by Section 35.0108

All revenues collected pursuant to the tax imposed by the City under Section 35.0108 shall be deposited in the
General Fund of the City and be used for general governmental purposes as the City Council may from time
to time provide in accordance with the Charter of the City of San Diego and the City Council's appropriation
ordinance.

Section 35.0136 Treasurer's Regulations and Enforcement Authority

The City Treasurer may promulgate reasonable rules, interpretations and regulations to implement and enforce
the provisions of this Article. Designated agents of the City Treasurer shall have the authority to arrest without
a warrant any violator of a misdemeanor provision of this Article and to issue notices to appear pursuant to
the provisions of Penal Code section 836.5.

Section 35.0137 Duty of Successor of Operator

If an operator who is liable for any tax or penalties under this Article sells or otherwise disposes of his business,
his successor shall notify the City Treasurer of the date of sale at least thirty (30) days before the date of sale
or, if the decision to sell was made less than thirty (30) days prior to the actual sale, then immediately and
shall withhold a sufficient portion of the purchase price to equal the amount of such tax or penalty until the
selling operator produces a receipt from the Treasurer showing that the tax or penalty has been paid or a tax
clearance certificate from the City Treasurer stating that no tax or penalty is due. If the seller does not present
a receipt or tax clearance certificate within thirty (30) days after such successor commences to conduct
business, the successor shall deposit the withheld amount with the City Treasurer pending settlement of the
account of the seller.

Section 35.0138 Liability of Successor for Failure to Withhold: Notice of Amount Due

If the successor to the business fails to withhold a portion of the purchase price as required, it shall
be liable to the City for the payment of the amount required to be withheld. Within thirty (30) days after receiving
a written request from the successor for a tax clearance certificate stating that no tax or penalty is due, the City
Treasurer shall either issue the certificate or mail notice to the successor at its address as it appears on the
records of the City Treasurer of the estimated amount of the tax and -penalty that must be paid as a condition
of issuing the certificate.

Division 25 of Article 1 of Chapter 6 of the San Diego Municipal Code, San Diego Tourism Marketing District
Procedural Ordinance

Section 61.2501 Purpose and Intent

The purpose and intent of this Division is:

(a)	To allow for the establishment of a tourism marketing district to provide for tourism
development, including coordinated joint marketing and promotion of San Diego
businesses, in order to retain and expand the lodging industry which is one of the top
revenue generators for the San Diego economy and a key employment sector.

(b)	To create a mechanism to fund promotional activities for tourism development through
the levy of assessments upon the businesses to which the special and specific benefit
from those activities is conferred.

(c)	To provide a method for the involvement of a nonprofit entity to participate in the
preparation and review of proposed tourism marketing district plans for district
activities.

(d)	To provide a method for the City Council to authorize a nonprofit entity with specific
interest in the promotion of City tourism to implement and administer district activities.

(e)	To provide a mechanism with which a charge may be imposed for a special and specific
benefit conferred directly to the payors that is not provided to those not charged and
which does not exceed the reasonable costs to the City of San Diego of conferring the
benefit.

Section 61.2502 Citation of Division

This division may be cited as the San Diego Tourism Marketing District Procedural Ordinance.

PR-09L0-114

N SD SDO-115

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

Section 61.2503 Rules of Construction

This Division shall be liberally construed in order to effectuate its purposes. No error, irregularity, informality
and no neglect or omission of any officer, in any procedure taken under this Division which does not directly
affect the jurisdiction of the San Diego City Council to order the work shall void or invalidate such procedure
for any assessment or the cost of the work done thereunder.

Section 61.2504 Definitions

For purposes of this division, defined terms appear in italics. The following definitions apply in this Division:
"Activities" means, but is not limited to, the promotion and marketing of assessed businesses to provide a
special and specific benefit to assessed businesses within the district that is not provided to those not paying
the assessment.

"Assessment" means a levy for the purpose of conducting activities which will provide a special and specific
benefit to the assessed businesses located within a tourism marketing district is not provided to those not
paying the assessment. Assessments levied under this Division are not special taxes.

"Business" means any and all types of hotels where a structure, or any portion of a structure, is held out to the
public as being occupied, or designed for occupancy, by transients for dwelling, lodging or sleeping purposes.

"Business owner" means the owner, operator, or authorized representative of the business who is noted on City
records as the responsible party for the remitting and reporting of Transient Occupancy Tax pursuant to San
Diego Municipal Code section 35.0114.

"District management plan" or "plan" means a proposal as defined in sections 61.2507.

"Tourism marketing district," or "district," means an area established pursuant to this Division, within which
businesses pay assessments to fund activities.

"Tourism marketing district association" or "association" means a private nonprofit entity which represents,
and whose membership includes only the assessed business owners or business owners' representatives in a
district and which participates in the preparation and review of proposed district management plans for district
activities that provide a special and specific benefit to assessed businesses that is not provided to those that are
not assessed. A tourism marketing district association may be an existing nonprofit entity or a newly formed
nonprofit entity. In accordance with California Streets and Highways Code section 36614.5, the association is
a private entity and may not be considered a public entity for any purpose, nor may its board members or staff
be considered to be public officials for any purpose.

"Transient" has the same meaning as in San Diego Municipal Code section 35.0102.

Section 61.2505 Alternative Financing Method; No Limit on Other Provisions of Law

This Division provides an alternative method of financing certain activities. The provisions of this Division shall
not affect or limit any other provisions of law authorizing or providing for activities or the raising of revenue
for the benefit of businesses.

Section 61.2506 Establishment of Tourism Marketing District

A tourism marketing district may be established as provided in this Division, in the following manner:

(a)	Upon the submission of a written petition, signed by the business owners in the
proposed district who will pay more than 50 percent of the assessments proposed to
be levied, the City Council will initiate proceedings to establish a district by the adoption
of a resolution expressing its intention to establish a district. Where the same business
owner would be assessed an amount in excess of 40 percent of the total amount of all
assessments proposed to be levied, that business owner's share of the assessment over
such 40 percent shall not be included in determining whether the petition is signed by
business owners who will pay more than 50 percent of the total amount of assessments
proposed to be levied.

(b)	The petition of business owners required under subdivision (a) shall include a summary
of the district management plan. That summary shall include all of the following:

(1)	A map showing the boundaries of the district.

PR-09L0-115

N SD SDO-116

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

(2)	Information specifying where the complete district management plan can be
obtained.

(3)	Information specifying that the complete district management plan shall be
furnished upon request.

(c)	The resolution of intention described in subdivision (a) shall contain all of the following:

(1)	A brief description of the proposed activities, the amount of the proposed
assessment, a statement that bonds will not be issued, and a description of the
exterior boundaries of the proposed district. The descriptions and statements do
not need to be detailed and shall be sufficient if they enable an owner to generally
identify the nature and extent of the activities and the location and extent of the
proposed district.

(2)	A time and place for a public hearing on the establishment of the tourism
marketing district and the levying of assessments, which shall be consistent with
the requirements of section 61.2508.

Section 61.2507 Tourism Marketing District Management Plan

The district management plan shall contain all of the following:

(a)	A map of the district.

(b)	The name of the proposed district.

(c)	A description of the boundaries of the district, including the boundaries of any benefit
zones, proposed for establishment or extension in a manner sufficient to identify
the affected lands and businesses included. Nothing in this Division prohibits the
boundaries of a district created pursuant to this Division to overlap with other districts
created pursuant to this Division or assessment districts established pursuant to other
provisions of law including, but not limited to, the Parking and Business Improvement
Area Law of 1989, California Streets and Highways Code sections 36500 -36551, or
the Property and Business Improvement District Law of 1994, California Streets and
Highways Code sections 36600 - 36671.

(d)	The general description of activities proposed for each year of operation of the district
and the estimated maximum cost thereof.

(e)	The estimated total annual amount proposed to be expended each year for administration
and operation of the district.

(f)	The proposed source or sources of financing including the proposed method and basis
of levying the assessment in sufficient detail to allow each business owner to calculate
the amount of the assessment to be levied against their business.

(g) The planned frequency for the levying of the assessments.

(h) The specific number of years in which assessments will be levied. The maximum term
for any district is 40 years. The district management plan may set forth specific changes
in assessments for each year of operation of the district.

(i)	The proposed timing and duration of activities under the plan.

(j)	Any proposed rules and regulations to be applicable to the district.

(k)	A list of the businesses to be assessed then in existence.

(l)	A description of the procedures utilized by the association for the nomination and
election of the association's board of directors.

(m)	Any other item or matter required to be incorporated therein by the San Diego City
Council, the San Diego Municipal Code, or any other applicable law. The district
management plan shall be approved by City Council at the time City Council considers
the petition of businesses seeking to establish a tourism marketing district. Should the

PR-09L0-116

NSD SDO-117

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

businesses or the tourism marketing district association seek to modify the plan at any

time, such modifications shall be subject to the requirements of sections 61.2519 and

61.2520.

Section 61.2508 Notice of Proposed Assessments; Public Hearing

(a)	If the City Council proposes to levy a new or increased assessment pursuant to this

Division, the City shall comply with the following notice, protest, and hearing procedures:

(1) The City Council shall identify all businesses which will have a special and specific
benefit conferred on them by the activities and upon which an assessment will be
imposed.

(2)	All assessments shall be supported by the management plan.

(3)	The City shall give notice by mail to the business owner of each identified business.
Each notice shall state the estimated total initial annual assessments for the entire
district, the duration of the payments, the reason for the assessment and the basis
upon which the amount of the proposed assessment was calculated, and a specific
formula in sufficient detail to allow the business owner to calculate the proposed
assessment on the business, together with the date, time and location of a public
hearing on the proposed assessment.

(4)	If the proposed assessment formula is based on gross room revenue, the amount
of the proposed assessment for each identified business shall be estimated based
on gross room rental revenue for the City's most recent complete fiscal year.

(5)	Each notice shall also include, in a conspicuous place, a summary of the
procedures for the completion, return, and tabulation of the ballots required
pursuant to section 61.2508(a)(6), including a statement that the assessment
shall not be imposed if the ballots submitted in opposition to the assessment
exceed the ballots submitted in favor of the assessment, with ballots weighted
according to the proportional financial obligation of the affected business.

The City shall give notice by mail at least 45 days prior to the date of the public
hearing upon the proposed assessment. On the face of the envelope mailed to the
business owner, in which the notice and ballot are enclosed, there shall appear in
substantially the following form in no smaller than 16-point bold type: "OFFICIAL
BALLOT ENCLOSED." The City may additionally place the phrase "OFFICIAL
BALLOT ENCLOSED" on the face of the envelope mailed to the business owner,
in which the notice and ballot are enclosed, in a language or languages other
than English.

(6)	Each notice given pursuant to this section shall contain a ballot that includes the
City's address for receipt of the ballot and a place where the person returning the
assessment ballot may indicate his or her name, a reasonable identification of the
business, and his or her support or opposition to the proposed assessment. Each
ballot shall be in a form that conceals its contents once it is sealed by the person
submitting the ballot. Each ballot shall be signed and either mailed or otherwise
delivered to the address indicated on the ballot. Regardless of the method of
delivery, all ballots shall be received at the address indicated, or the site of the
public testimony, in order to be included in the tabulation of a majority protest
pursuant to section 61.2508(a)(8). Ballots shall remain sealed until the tabulation
of ballots pursuant to section 6 1.2508(a)(8) commences, provided that a ballot
may be submitted, changed, or withdrawn by the person who submitted the ballot
prior to the conclusion of the public testimony on the proposed assessment at the
hearing required pursuant to this section. The City may provide an envelope for
the return of the ballot, provided that if the return envelope is opened by the City
prior to the tabulation of ballots pursuant to section 6 1.2508(a)(8), the enclosed
ballot shall remain sealed as provided in this section.

PR-09L0-117

NSD SDO-118

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

(7)	At the time, date, and place stated in the notice mailed pursuant to section
61.2508(a)(3), the City shall conduct a public hearing upon the proposed
assessment. At the public hearing, the City shall consider all objections or
protests, if any, to the proposed assessment. At the public hearing, any person
shall be permitted to present written or oral testimony. The public hearing may
be continued from time to time.

(8)	At the conclusion of the public hearing, a person or persons designated by the City
shall tabulate the ballots submitted, and not withdrawn, in support of or opposition
to the proposed assessment.

(9)	The City Council may, if necessary, continue the tabulation at a different time or
location accessible to the public, provided the City Council announces the time
and location at the hearing. Technological methods may be used in the tabulation
of the ballots, including, but not limited to, punchcard, or optically readable (bar-
coded) ballots.

(10)	A majority protest exists if the ballots submitted, and not withdrawn, in opposition
to the proposed assessment exceed the ballots submitted, and not withdrawn, in
its favor, weighting those ballots by the amount of the proposed assessment to
be imposed upon the identified business for which each ballot was submitted.

(11)	If there is a majority protest against the imposition of a new assessment or an
increase in an existing assessment, the City shall not impose or increase the
assessment.

(b)	In addition to the requirements of section 61.2508(a), the City shall also comply with
California Government Code section 54954.6, as it relates to adopting any new or
increased assessment.

Section 61.2509 City Council Adoption, Revision or Modification of Assessments; Modification of
Approved Activities; Changes to District Boundaries

At the conclusion of the public hearing to establish the district, the City Council may adopt, revise, change,
reduce or modify the proposed assessment or the type or types of activities to be funded with the revenues from
the assessments. At the hearing, the City Council may only make changes to the boundaries of the proposed
tourism marketing district that will exclude territory containing businesses that the City Council finds will not
benefit from the proposed activities; and may only change proposed assessments by reducing them.

Section 61.2510 Resolution of Formation of Tourism Marketing District

(a)	If the City Council, following a public hearing, decides to establish a proposed tourism
marketing district, the City Council shall adopt a resolution of formation that shall
contain all of the following:

(1)	A brief description of the proposed activities, the amount of the proposed
assessment, and a description of the exterior boundaries of the proposed district.
The descriptions and statements do not need to be detailed and shall be sufficient
if they enable an owner to generally identify the nature and extent of the activities
and the location and extent of the proposed district.

(2)	The number, date of adoption, and title of the resolution of intention.

(3)	The time and place where the public hearing was held concerning the establishment
of the district.

(4)	A determination regarding any protests received. The City Council shall not
establish the district or levy assessments if a majority protest was received.

(5)	A statement that the operations of the district established by the resolution shall
be subject to any amendments to this Division.

(6)	A statement that the activities to be provided to benefit businesses in the district
will be funded by the levy of the assessments. The revenue from the levy of

N SD SDO-119

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

assessments within a district shall not be used to provide activities that directly
benefit businesses outside the district or for any purpose other than the purposes
specified in the resolution of intention, as modified by the City Council at the
hearing concerning establishment of the district.

(7)	A statement specifying the time and manner for levying the assessments by the
City Treasurer.

(8)	A statement that any assessment imposed pursuant to this Division is levied solely
upon the business owner within the district, that the business owner is solely
responsible for payment of the assessment when due, and that, if the business
owner chooses to collect any portion of the assessment from a transient, that
portion shall be specifically called out and identified for the transient in any and
all communications from the business owner as a "San Diego Tourism Marketing
District Assessment."

(9)	A finding that the activities funded by the assessments will provide a special and
specific benefit to businesses within the tourism marketing district that is not
provided to those not paying the assessment.

(b)	The adoption of the resolution of formation and recordation of the notice and map

pursuant to section 61.2512 shall constitute the levy of an assessment in each of the

fiscal years referred to in the district management plan.

Section 61.2511 City Clerk to Record Notice and Map of District

Following adoption of a resolution establishing a district pursuant to section 61.2510 the City Clerk shall record
a notice and map of the district.

Section 61.2512 City Council Establishment of Benefit Zones

The City Council may establish one or more separate benefit zones within the district based upon the degree
of benefit derived from the activities to be provided within the benefit zone, and may impose a different
assessment within each benefit zone. The City Council may also define categories of businesses based upon
the degree of benefit that each will derive from the activities to be provided within the district, and may impose
a different assessment or rate of assessment on each category of business, or on each category of business
within each zone.

Section 61.2513 Establishment, Modification or Disestablishment; Districts and Benefit Zones

All provisions of this Division applicable to the establishment, modification, or disestablishment of a tourism
marketing district apply to the establishment, modification, or disestablishment of benefit zones or categories of
business. In order to establish, modify, or disestablish a benefit zone or category of business, the City Council
shall follow the procedure to establish, modify, or disestablish a tourism marketing district.

Section 61.2514 Expiration of Tourism Marketing District

If a tourism marketing district expires due to the time limit set pursuant to section 61.2507(h), a new district
management plan may be created and a new district established pursuant to this Division.

Section 61.2515 Collection of Assessments

The collection of the assessments levied pursuant to this Division shall be made at the time and in the manner
set forth by the City Council in the resolution establishing the district described in section 61.2510. A method
for charging interest and penalties for delinquent payments of assessments may also be prescribed in the
resolution establishing the district.

Section 61.2516 Exemptions from Assessments

The following business revenues are considered exempt from assessment under this Division:

(1)	Revenues from a transient who has exercised occupancy for more than one month;

(2)	Revenues from a transient whose room rent is being paid directly or indirectly by
the federal government or the State of California, or

(3)	Revenues from a transient who is by treaty exempt from locally-levied transient
occupancy taxes.

N SD SDO-120

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

Section 61.2517 Validity of Assessments; Contests

The validity of an assessment levied under this Division shall not be contested in any action or proceeding
unless the action or proceeding is commenced within 30 days after the resolution establishing the district and
levying the assessment is adopted pursuant to section 61.2510. Any appeal from a final judgment in an action
or proceeding shall be perfected by the appellant within 30 days after the entry of judgment.

Section 61.2518 City's Promotional Responsibilities

(a)	Nothing in this Division shall relieve the City of its responsibility to promote the City of
San Diego as enumerated in San Diego Municipal Code section 35.0128 regarding the
use of revenues from the City's Transient Occupancy Tax.

(b)	The City Manager, or the Manager's designee, will provide the tourism marketing district
association, on an annual basis, a statement detailing actual Transient Occupancy Tax
revenues collected under San Diego Municipal Code section 35.0103 that are available
for promoting the City. This statement shall also describe the prescribed use of revenues
from the City's Transient Occupancy Tax to include, but not be limited to:

(1)	The annual debt payment for all existing bond obligations related to the San Diego
Convention Center Corporation;

(2)	The annual marketing subsidy as required by the San Diego Convention Center
Corporation; and

(3)	The annual debt payment for all existing bond obligations relative to Balboa Park
and Mission Bay Park.

Section 61.2519 Modifications of District Management Plan

A tourism marketing district association may, at any time, request that the City Council modify its district
management plan. Any modification of the district management plan shall be made pursuant to this Division.
Section 61.2520 District Plan Modification; Public Hearing Required

(a)	Upon the written request of a tourism marketing district association, the City Council
may modify the district management plan, including modification of the activities to be
funded with the revenue derived from the levy of the assessments, after conducting
one public hearing on the proposed modifications. If the modification includes the levy
of a new or increased assessment, the City shall comply with the notice and protest
requirements of section 61.2508.

(b)	The City Council shall adopt a resolution of intention which states the proposed
modification prior to the public hearing required by this section. The public hearing
shall be held not more than 90 days after the adoption of the resolution of intention.

(c)	The City shall give all business owners within the district written notice by mail, of
the proposed modifications of the district management plan, an explanation of the
modification, and the reason for the modification, together with the date, time and
location of a public hearing on the proposed modification.

Section 61.2521 Tourism Marketing District Association; Report of Activities

(a)	Each tourism marketing district association shall cause to be prepared a prospective
report for each fiscal year, except the first year, for which assessments are to be levied
and collected to pay the costs of the activities described in the report. The tourism
marketing district association's first report shall be due after the first year of operation
of the district. The report may propose changes, including, but not limited to, the
boundaries of the tourism marketing district or any benefit zones within the district,
the basis and method of levying the assessments, and any changes in the classification
of categories of business, if a classification is used.

(b)	The report shall be filed with the City Clerk prior to the end of each fiscal year, and
shall refer to the tourism marketing district by name, specify the fiscal year to which
the report applies, and, with respect to that fiscal year, shall contain all of the following
information:

N SD SDO-121

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

(1)	Any proposed changes to the boundaries of the tourism marketing district or to
anybenefit zones or classification of businesses within the district.

(2)	The activities to be provided for that fiscal year.

(3)	An estimate of the cost of providing the activities for that fiscal year.

(4)	The method and basis of levying the assessment in sufficient detail to allow each
business owner to estimate the amount of the assessment to be levied against
his or her business for that fiscal year.

(5)	The estimated amount of any surplus or deficit revenues to be carried over from
the previous fiscal year.

(6)	The estimated amount of any contributions to be made from sources other than
assessments levied pursuant to this Division.

(c)	The City Council may approve the report as filed by the tourism marketing district
association, 01 ■ may modify any portion of the report and approve it as modified. Such
modification shall only be made subject to the noticing provisions of sections 61.2520.
Any portion of the report which proposes to modify the district management plan shall
only be approved after complying with the notice and public hearing requirements of
Section 61.2520. The City Council shall not approve a change in the basis and method
of levying assessments that would impair an authorized or executed contract to be paid
from the revenues derived from the levy of assessments.

(d)	A tourism marketing district association shall comply with the Ralph M. Brown Act,
California Government Code sections 54950 -54963, at all times when matters within
the subject matter of the district are heard, discussed, or deliberated, and with the
California Public Records Act, California Government Code sections 6250 - 6276.48,
for all documents relating to activities of the district.

(e)	Each business owner paying the tourism district assessment has the right to vote in
annual elections of the association and the right to seek nomination or election to the
board of directors of the association.

Section 61.2522 Tourism Marketing District Association; Contract With Nonprofit

The district management plan may state that a tourism marketing district association will provide for and
administer the activities described in the district management plan. If the district management plan designates
a tourism marketing district association, the City may contract with the designated nonprofit corporation to
implement the plan and carry out specified activities, subject to the terms and conditions enumerated in the
contract.

Section 61.2523 Renewal of Expired District

(a)	Upon renewal of an expired district, any remaining revenues derived from the levy
of assessments, or any revenues derived from the sale of assets acquired with the
revenues, shall be transferred to the renewed district. If the renewed district includes
additional businesses not included in the prior district, the remaining revenues shall be
spent to benefit only the businesses in the prior district. If the renewed district does not
include businesses included in the prior district, the remaining revenues attributable to
these businesses shall be refunded to the owners of these businesses.

(b)	Upon renewal, a district shall have a term not to exceed forty (40) years. There is no
requirement that the boundaries, assessments, or activities of a renewed district be the
same as the original or prior district.

Section 61.2524 Disestablishment of District; Procedures

(a) Any tourism marketing district established or extended pursuant to the provisions of this
Division, where there is no outstanding and unpaid indebtedness incurred to accomplish
any of the purposes of the district, may be disestablished by resolution of the City
Council in either of the following circumstances:

PR-09L0-121

N SD SDO-122

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

(1)	If the City Council finds there has been misappropriation of funds, malfeasance,
or a violation of law in connection with the management of the district; or

(2)	After the first year of operation of the district, there shall be a 30-day period
each year in which assessed business owners may request disestablishment of
the district. The first such period shall begin upon presentation to City Council
of the district's initial annual report of activities. During each successive year of
operation of the district, business owners shall have such a 30-day period to
request disestablishment upon presentation of the district's report of activities.
Upon the written petition of the business owners in the district who pay 50 percent
or more of the assessments levied, the City Council shall pass a resolution of
intention to disestablish the district. The City Council shall notice a hearing on
disestablishment, pursuant to section 61.2508.

(b)	The City Council shall adopt a resolution of intention to disestablish the district prior to
the public hearing required by this section. The resolution shall state the reason for the
disestablishment, shall state the time and place of the public hearing, and shall contain
a proposal to dispose of any assets acquired with the revenues of the assessments
levied within the district. The notice of the hearing on disestablishment required by this
section shall be given by mail to the owner of each business subject to assessment in
the district. The City Council shall conduct the public hearing not less than 30 days after
the mailing of the notice to the business owners. The public hearing shall be held not
more than 60 days after the adoption of the resolution of intention.

Section 61.2525 Disestablishment; Refund of Assessments

(a)	If the disestablishment occurs before an assessment is levied for the fiscal year, the
method and basis that was used to calculate the assessments levied in the immediate
prior fiscal year shall be used to calculate the amount of any refund. All outstanding
assessment revenue collected after disestablishment shall be spent on activities
specified in the district management plan.

(b)	Upon the disestablishment of a district, any remaining revenues, after all outstanding
debts are paid, derived from the levy of assessments, or derived from the sale of assets
acquired with the revenues, shall be refunded to the business owners then located and
operating within the district in which assessments were levied by applying the same
method and basis that was used to calculate the assessments levied in the fiscal year
in which the district is disestablished.

Section 61.2526 Action to Determine Validity; Action Contesting Validity

(a)	An action to determine the validity of assessments, contracts, improvements, or
activities may be brought by the City or tourism marketing district association pursuant
to Chapter 9 (commencing with section 860) of Title 10 of Part 2 of the California Code of
Civil Procedure. For such purpose an assessment, activity, improvement, or acquisition
shall be deemed to be in existence upon its authorization by City Council.

(b)	In accordance with California Streets and Flighways Code section 36633, the validity
of an assessment levied under this Division shall not be contested in any action or
proceeding unless the action or proceeding is commenced within 30 days after the
resolution levying the assessment is adopted pursuant to section 61.251. Any appeal
from a final judgment in an action or proceeding shall be perfected within 30 days after
the entry of judgment.

The Property and Business Improvement District Law of 1994

California Streets and Highways Code

Section 36600. This part shall be known and may be cited as the "Property and Business Improvement

District Law of 1994."

Section 36601. The Legislature finds and declares all of the following:

NSDSDO-123

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

(a)	Businesses located and operating within business districts in some of this state's
communities are economically disadvantaged, are underutilized, and are unable to
attract customers due to inadequate facilities, services, and activities in the business
districts.

(b)	It is in the public interest to promote the economic revitalization and physical
maintenance

of business districts in order to create jobs, attract new businesses, and prevent the erosion of the business
districts.

(c)	It is of particular local benefit to allow business districts to fund business related
improvements, maintenance, and activities through the levy of assessments upon the
businesses or real property that receive benefits from those improvements.

(d)	Assessments levied for the purpose of conferring special benefit upon the real property
or businesses in a business district are not taxes for the general benefit of a city, even
if property or persons not assessed receive incidental or collateral effects that benefit
them.

(e)	Property and business improvement districts formed throughout this state have
conferred special benefits upon properties and businesses within their districts and
have made those properties and businesses more useful by providing the following
benefits:

(1)	Crime reduction. A study by the Rand Corporation has confirmed a 12-percent
reduction in the incidence of robbery and an 8-percent reduction in the total
incidence of violent crimes within the 30 districts studied.

(2)	Job creation.

(3)	Business attraction.

(4)	Business retention.

(5)	Economic growth.

(6)	New investments.

(f)	With the dissolution of redevelopment agencies throughout the state, property and business
improvement districts have become even more important tools with which communities can combat blight,
promote economic opportunities, and create a clean and safe environment.

(g)	Since the enactment of this act, the people of California have adopted Proposition 218,
which added Article XIII D to the Constitution in order to place certain requirements
and restrictions on the formation of, and activities, expenditures, and assessments by
property-based districts. Article XIII D of the Constitution provides that property-based
districts may only levy assessments for special benefits.

(h)	The act amending this section is intended to provide the Legislature's guidance with
regard to this act, its interaction with the provisions of Article XI11 D of the Constitution,
and the determination of special benefits in property-based districts.

(1)	The lack of legislative guidance has resulted in uncertainty and inconsistent
application of this act, which discourages the use of assessments to fund
needed improvements, maintenance, and activities in property-based districts,
contributing to blight and other underutilization of property.

(2)	Activities undertaken for the purpose of conferring special benefits upon property
to be assessed inherently produce incidental or collateral effects that benefit
property or persons not assessed. Therefore, for special benefits to exist as a
separate and distinct category from general benefits, the incidental or collateral
effects of those special benefits are inherently part of those special benefits. The

NSD SDO-124

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

mere fact that special benefits produce incidental or collateral effects that benefit
property or persons not assessed does not convert any portion of those special
benefits or their incidental or collateral effects into general benefits.

(3)	It is of the utmost importance that property-based districts created under this act
have clarity regarding restrictions on assessments they may levy and the proper
determination of special benefits. Legislative clarity with regard to this act will
provide districts with clear instructions and courts with legislative intent regarding
restrictions on property-based assessments, and the manner in which special
benefits should be determined.

Section 36602. The purpose of this part is to supplement previously enacted provisions of law that authorize
cities to levy assessments within property and business improvement districts, to ensure that those assessments
conform to all constitutional requirements and are determined and assessed in accordance with the guidance
set forth in this act. This part does not affect or limit any other provisions of law authorizing or providing for
the furnishing of improvements or activities or the raising of revenue for these purposes.

Section 36603. Nothing in this part is intended to preempt the authority of a charter city to adopt ordinances
providing for a different method of levying assessments for similar or additional purposes from those set forth
in this part. A property and business improvement district created pursuant to this part is expressly exempt from
the provisions of the Special Assessment Investigation, Limitation and Majority Protest Act of 1931 (Division
4 (commencing with Section 2800)).

Section 36603.5. Any provision of this part that conflicts with any other provision of law shall prevail over
the other provision of law, as to districts created under this part.

Section 36604. This part is intended to be construed liberally and, if any provision is held invalid, the
remaining provisions shall remain in full force and effect. Assessments levied under this part are not special
taxes.

Section 36606. "Activities" means, but is not limited to, all of the following that benefit businesses or real
property in the district:

(a)	Promotion of public events.

(b)	Furnishing of music in any public place.

(c)	Promotion of tourism within the district.

(d)	Marketing and economic development, including retail retention and recruitment.

(e)	Providing security, sanitation, graffiti removal, street and sidewalk cleaning, and other
municipal services supplemental to those normally provided by the municipality.

(f)	Other services provided for the purpose of conferring special benefit upon assessed businesses and
real property located in the district.

Section 36606.5. "Assessment" means a levy for the purpose of acquiring, constructing, installing,
or maintaining improvements and providing activities that will provide certain benefits to properties or
businesses located within a property and business improvement district.

Section 36607. "Business" means all types of businesses and includes financial institutions and
professions.

Section 36608. "City" means a city, county, city and county, or an agency or entity created pursuant to
Article 1 (commencing with Section 6500) of Chapter 5 of Division 7 of Title 1 of the Government Code,
the public member agencies of which includes only cities, counties, or a city and county, or the State of
California.

Section 36609. "City council" means the city council of a city or the board of supervisors of a county, or
the agency, commission, or board created pursuant to a joint powers agreement and which is a city within
the meaning of this part.

Section 36609.4. "Clerk" means the clerk of the legislative body.

PR-09L0-124

N SD SDO-125

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

Section 36609.5. "General benefit" means, for purposes of a property-based district, any benefit that is not
a "special benefit" as defined in Section 36615.5.

Section 36610. "Improvement" means the acquisition, construction, installation, or maintenance of
any tangible property with an estimated useful life of five years or more including, but not limited to, the
following:

(a)	Parking facilities.

(b)	Benches, booths, kiosks, display cases, pedestrian shelters and signs.

(c)	Trash receptacles and public restrooms.

(d)	Lighting and heating facilities.

(e)	Decorations.

(f)	Parks.

(g)	Fountains.

(h)	Planting areas.

(i)	Closing, opening, widening, or narrowing of existing streets.

(j)	Facilities or equipment, or both, to enhance security of persons and property within the
area.

(k)	Ramps, sidewalks, plazas, and pedestrian malls.

(l)	Rehabilitation or removal of existing structures.

Section 36611. "Management district plan" or "plan" means a proposal as defined in Section 36622.

Section 36612. "Owners' association" means a private nonprofit entity that is under contract with a
city to administer or implement improvements, maintenance, and activities specified in the management
district plan. An owners' association may be an existing nonprofit entity or a newly formed nonprofit entity.
An owners' association is a private entity and may not be considered a public entity for any purpose, nor
may its board members or staff be considered to be public officials for any purpose. Notwithstanding this
section, an owners' association shall comply with the Ralph M. Brown Act (Chapter 9 (commencing with
Section 54950) of Part 1 of Division 2 of Title 5 of the Government Code), at all times when matters within
the subject matter of the district are heard, discussed, or deliberated, and with the California Public Records
Act (Chapter 3.5 (commencing with Section 6250) of Division 7 of Title 1 of the Government Code), for all
records relating to activities of the district.

Section 36614. "Property" means real property situated within a district.

Section 36614.5. "Property and business improvement district," or "district," means a property and
business improvement district established pursuant to this part.

Section 36614.6. "Property-based assessment" means any assessment made pursuant to this part upon
real property.

Section 36614.7. "Property-based district" means any district in which a city levies a property-based
assessment.

Section 36615. "Property owner" means any person shown as the owner of land on the last equalized
assessment roll or otherwise known to be the owner of land by the city council. "Business owner" means
any person recognized by the city as the owner of the business. "Owner" means either a business owner or
a property owner. The city council has no obligation to obtain other information as to the ownership of land
or businesses, and its determination of ownership shall be final and conclusive for the purposes of this part.
Wherever this part requires the signature of the property owner, the signature of the authorized agent of
the property owner shall be sufficient. Wherever this part requires the signature of the business owner, the
signature of the authorized agent of the business owner shall be sufficient.

NSD SDO-126

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

Section 36615.5. "Special benefit" means, for purposes of a property-based district, a particular and
distinct benefit over and above general benefits conferred on real property located in a district or to the
public at large. Special benefit includes incidental or collateral effects that arise from the improvements,
maintenance, or activities of property-based districts even if those incidental or collateral effects benefit
property or persons not assessed. Special benefit excludes general enhancement of property value.

Section 36616. "Tenant" means an occupant pursuant to a lease of commercial space or a dwelling unit,
other than an owner.

Section 36617. This part provides an alternative method of financing certain improvements and activities.
The provisions of this part shall not affect or limit any other provisions of law authorizing or providing for
the furnishing of improvements or activities or the raising of revenue for these purposes. Every improvement
area established pursuant to the Parking and Business Improvement Area Law of 1989 (Part 6 (commencing
with Section 36500) of this division) is valid and effective and is unaffected by this part.

Section 36620. A property and business improvement district may be established as provided in this
chapter.

Section 36620.5. A county may not form a district within the territorial jurisdiction of a city without the
consent of the city council of that city. A city may not form a district within the unincorporated territory of a
county without the consent of the board of supervisors of that county. A city may not form a district within
the territorial jurisdiction of another city without the consent of the city council of the other city.

Section 36621. (a) Upon the submission of a written petition, signed by the property or business owners
in the proposed district who will pay more than 50 percent of the assessments proposed to be levied,
the city council may initiate proceedings to form a district by the adoption of a resolution expressing its
intention to form a district. The amount of assessment attributable to property or a business owned by the
same property or business owner that is in excess of 40 percent of the amount of all assessments proposed
to be levied, shall not be included in determining whether the petition is signed by property or business
owners who will pay more than 50 percent of the total amount of assessments proposed to be levied.

(b)	The petition of property or business owners required under subdivision (a) shall include

a summary of the management district plan. That summary shall include all of the

following:

(1)	A map showing the boundaries of the district.

(2)	Information specifying where the complete management district plan can be
obtained.

(3)	Information specifying that the complete management district plan shall be
furnished upon request.

(c)	The resolution of intention described in subdivision (a) shall contain all of the following:

(1)	A brief description of the proposed improvements, maintenance, and activities, the
amount of the proposed assessment, a statement as to whether the assessment
will be levied on property or businesses within the district, a statement as to
whether bonds will be issued, and a description of the exterior boundaries of the
proposed district, which may be made by reference to any plan or map that is on
file with the clerk. The descriptions and statements do not need to be detailed and
shall be sufficient if they enable an owner to generally identify the nature and extent
of the improvements, maintenance, and activities, and the location and extent of
the proposed district.

(2)	A time and place for a public hearing on the establishment of the property and
business improvement district and the levy of assessments, which shall be
consistent with the requirements of Section 36623.

NSD SDO-127

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

Section 36622. The management district plan shall include, but is not limited to, all of the following:

(a)	If the assessment will be levied on property, a map of the district in sufficient detail
to locate each parcel of property and, if businesses are to be assessed, each business
within the district. If the assessment will be levied on businesses, a map that identifies
the district boundaries in sufficient detail to allow a business owner to reasonably
determine whether a business is located within the district boundaries. If the assessment
will be levied on property and businesses, a map of the district in sufficient detail to
locate each parcel of property and to allow a business owner to reasonably determine
whether a business is located within the district boundaries.

(b)	The name of the proposed district.

(c)	A description of the boundaries of the district, including the boundaries of benefit zones,
proposed for establishment or extension in a manner sufficient to identify the affected
property and businesses included, which may be made by reference to any plan or
map that is on file with the clerk. The boundaries of a proposed property assessment
district shall not overlap with the boundaries of another existing property assessment
district created pursuant to this part. This part does not prohibit the boundaries of
a district created pursuant to this part to overlap with other assessment districts
established pursuant to other provisions of law, including, but not limited to, the
Parking and Business Improvement Area Law of 1989 (Part 6 (commencing with Section
36500)). This part does not prohibit the boundaries of a business assessment district
created pursuant to this part to overlap with another business assessment district
created pursuant to this part. This part does not prohibit the boundaries of a business
assessment district created pursuant to this part to overlap with a property assessment
district created pursuant to this part.

(d)	The improvements, maintenance, and activities proposed for each year of operation
of the district and the maximum cost thereof. If the improvements, maintenance, and
activities proposed for each year of operation are the same, a description of the first
year's proposed improvements, maintenance, and activities and a statement that the
same improvements, maintenance, and activities are proposed for subsequent years
shall satisfy the requirements of this subdivision.

(e)	The total annual amount proposed to be expended for improvements, maintenance, or
activities, and debt service in each year of operation of the district. If the assessment is
levied on businesses, this amount may be estimated based upon the assessment rate.
If the total annual amount proposed to be expended in each year of operation of the
district is not significantly different, the amount proposed to be expended in the initial
year and a statement that a similar amount applies to subsequent years shall satisfy the
requirements of this subdivision.

(f)	The proposed source or sources of financing, including the proposed method and
basis of levying the assessment in sufficient detail to allow each property or business
owner to calculate the amount of the assessment to be levied against his or her
property or business. The plan also shall state whether bonds will be issued to finance
improvements.

(g)	The time and manner of collecting the assessments.

(h)	The specific number of years in which assessments will be levied. In a new district,
the maximum number of years shall be five. Upon renewal, a district shall have a term
not to exceed 10 years. Notwithstanding these limitations, a district created pursuant
to this part to finance capital improvements with bonds may levy assessments until the
maximum maturity of the bonds. The management district plan may set forth specific
increases in assessments for each year of operation of the district.

(i)	The proposed time for implementation and completion of the management district plan.

PR-09L0-127

N SD SDO-128

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

(j)	Any proposed rules and regulations to be applicable to the district.

(k)	(1)	A list of the properties or businesses to be assessed, including the assessor's

parcel numbers for properties to be assessed, and a statement of the method or methods
by which the expenses of a district will be imposed upon benefited real property or
businesses, in proportion to the benefit received by the property or business, to defray
the cost thereof.

(2)	In a property-based district, the proportionate special benefit derived by each
identified parcel shall be determined exclusively in relationship to the entirety of
the capital cost of a public improvement, the maintenance and operation expenses
of a public improvement, or the cost of the activities. An assessment shall not
be imposed on any parcel that exceeds the reasonable cost of the proportional
special benefit conferred on that parcel. Only special benefits are assessable,
and a property-based district shall separate the general benefits, if any, from the
special benefits conferred on a parcel. Parcels within a property-based district
that are owned or used by any city, public agency, the State of California, or the
United States shall not be exempt from assessment unless the governmental
entity can demonstrate by clear and convincing evidence that those publicly owned
parcels in fact receive no special benefit. The value of any incidental, secondary, or
collateral effects that arise from the improvements, maintenance, or activities of
a property-based district and that benefit property or persons not assessed shall
not be deducted from the entirety of the cost of any special benefit or affect the
proportionate special benefit derived by each identified parcel.

(l)	In a property-based district, the total amount of all special benefits to be conferred upon
the properties located within the property-based district.

(m)	In a property-based district, the total amount of general benefits, if any.

(n)	In a property-based district, a detailed engineer's report prepared by a registered
professional engineer certified by the State of California supporting all assessments
contemplated by the management district plan.

(o)	Any other item or matter required to be incorporated therein by the city council.

Section 36623. (a) If a city council proposes to levy a new or increased property assessment, the notice
and protest and hearing procedure shall comply with Section 53753 of the Government Code.

(b)	If a city council proposes to levy a new or increased business assessment, the notice and
protest and hearing procedure shall comply with Section 54954.6 of the Government
Code, except that notice shall be mailed to the owners of the businesses proposed
to be assessed. A protest may be made orally or in writing by any interested person.
Every written protest shall be filed with the clerk at or before the time fixed for the
public hearing. The city council may waive any irregularity in the form or content of
any written protest. A written protest may be withdrawn in writing at any time before
the conclusion of the public hearing. Each written protest shall contain a description
of the business in which the person subscribing the protest is interested sufficient to
identify the business and, if a person subscribing is not shown on the official records
of the city as the owner of the business, the protest shall contain or be accompanied
by written evidence that the person subscribing is the owner of the business or the
authorized representative. A written protest that does not comply with this section shall
not be counted in determining a majority protest. If written protests are received from
the owners or authorized representatives of businesses in the proposed district that will
pay 50 percent or more of the assessments proposed to be levied and protests are not
withdrawn so as to reduce the protests to less than 50 percent, no further proceedings
to levy the proposed assessment against such businesses, as contained in the resolution
of intention, shall be taken for a period of one year from the date of the finding of a
majority protest by the city council.

PR-09L0-128

NSDSDO-129

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

(c)	If a city council proposes to conduct a single proceeding to levy both a new or increased
property assessment and a new or increased business assessment, the notice and
protest and hearing procedure for the property assessment shall comply with subdivision

(а)	, and the notice and protest and hearing procedure for the business assessment shall
comply with subdivision (b). If a majority protest is received from either the property
or business owners, that respective portion of the assessment shall not be levied. The
remaining portion of the assessment may be levied unless the improvement or other
special benefit was proposed to be funded by assessing both property and business
owners.

Section 36624. At the conclusion of the public hearing to establish the district, the city council may
adopt, revise, change, reduce, or modify the proposed assessment or the type or types of improvements,
maintenance, and activities to be funded with the revenues from the assessments. Proposed assessments
may only be revised by reducing any or all of them. At the public hearing, the city council may only make
changes in, to, or from the boundaries of the proposed property and business improvement district that will
exclude territory that will not benefit from the proposed improvements, maintenance, and activities. Any
modifications, revisions, reductions, or changes to the proposed assessment district shall be reflected in the
notice and map recorded pursuant to Section 36627.

Section 36625. (a) If the city council, following the public hearing, decides to establish a proposed
property and business improvement district, the city council shall adopt a resolution of formation that shall
include, but is not limited to, all of the following:

(1)	A brief description of the proposed improvements, maintenance, and activities, the
amount of the proposed assessment, a statement as to whether the assessment
will be levied on property, businesses, or both within the district, a statement on
whether bonds will be issued, and a description of the exterior boundaries of the
proposed district, which may be made by reference to any plan or map that is on
file with the clerk. The descriptions and statements need not be detailed and shall
be sufficient if they enable an owner to generally identify the nature and extent of
the improvements, maintenance, and activities and the location and extent of the
proposed district.

(2)	The number, date of adoption, and title of the resolution of intention.

(3)	The time and place where the public hearing was held concerning the establishment
of the district.

(4)	A determination regarding any protests received. The city shall not establish the
district or levy assessments if a majority protest was received.

(5)	A statement that the properties, businesses, or properties and businesses in the
district established by the resolution shall be subject to any amendments to this
part.

(б)	A statement that the improvements, maintenance, and activities to be conferred
on businesses and properties in the district will be funded by the levy of the
assessments. The revenue from the levy of assessments within a district shall not
be used to provide improvements, maintenance, or activities outside the district or
for any purpose other than the purposes specified in the resolution of intention, as
modified by the city council at the hearing concerning establishment of the district.

(7)	A finding that the property or businesses within the area of the property and
business improvement district will be benefited by the improvements, maintenance,
and activities funded by the proposed assessments, and, for a property-based
district, that property within the district will receive a special benefit.

(8)	In a property-based district, the total amount of all special benefits to be conferred
on the properties within the property-based district.

PR-09L0-129

NSD SDO-130

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

(b)	The adoption of the resolution of formation and, if required, recordation of the notice
and map pursuant to Section 36627 shall constitute the levy of an assessment in each
of the fiscal years referred to in the management district plan.

Section 36626. If the city council, following the public hearing, desires to establish the proposed property
and business improvement district, and the city council has not made changes pursuant to Section 36624,
or has made changes that do not substantially change the proposed assessment, the city council shall adopt
a resolution establishing the district. The resolution shall contain all of the information specified in Section
36625.

Section 36627. Following adoption of the resolution establishing district assessments on properties
pursuant to Section 36625 or Section 36626, the clerk of the city shall record a notice and an assessment
diagram pursuant to Section 3114. No other provision of Division 4.5 (commencing with Section 3100)
applies to an assessment district created pursuant to this part.

Section 36628. The city council may establish one or more separate benefit zones within the district based
upon the degree of benefit derived from the improvements or activities to be provided within the benefit
zone and may impose a different assessment within each benefit zone. If the assessment is to be levied on
businesses, the city council may also define categories of businesses based upon the degree of benefit that
each will derive from the improvements or activities to be provided within the district and may impose a
different assessment or rate of assessment on each category of business, or on each category of business
within each zone.

Section 36628.5. The city council may levy assessments on businesses or on property owners, or a
combination of the two, pursuant to this part. The city council shall structure the assessments in whatever
manner it determines corresponds with the distribution of benefits from the proposed improvements,
maintenance, and activities, provided that any property-based assessment conforms with the requirements
set forth in paragraph (2) of subdivision (k) of Section 36622.

Section 36629. All provisions of this part applicable to the establishment, modification, or
disestablishment of a property and business improvement district apply to the establishment, modification,
or disestablishment of benefit zones or categories of business. The city council shall, to establish, modify, or
disestablish a benefit zone or category of business, follow the procedure to establish, modify, or disestablish
a property and business improvement district.

Section 36630. If a property and business improvement district expires due to the time limit set pursuant
to subdivision (h) of Section 36622, a new management district plan may be created and the district may be
renewed pursuant to this part.

Section 36631. The collection of the assessments levied pursuant to this part shall be made at the time
and in the manner set forth by the city council in the resolution levying the assessment. Assessments
levied on real property may be collected at the same time and in the same manner as for the ad valorem
property tax, and may provide for the same lien priority and penalties for delinquent payment. All delinquent
payments for assessments levied pursuant to this part may be charged interest and penalties.

Section 36632. (a) The assessments levied on real property pursuant to this part shall be levied on
the basis of the estimated benefit to the real property within the property and business improvement
district. The city council may classify properties for purposes of determining the benefit to property of the
improvements and activities provided pursuant to this part.

(b)	Assessments levied on businesses pursuant to this part shall be levied on the basis of
the estimated benefit to the businesses within the property and business improvement
district. The city council may classify businesses for purposes of determining the benefit
to the businesses of the improvements and activities provided pursuant to this part.

(c)	Properties zoned solely for residential use, or that are zoned for agricultural use, are
conclusively presumed not to benefit from the improvements and service funded
through these assessments, and shall not be subject to any assessment pursuant to
this part.

NSD SDO-131

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

Section 36633. The validity of an assessment levied under this part shall not be contested in any action
or proceeding unless the action or proceeding is commenced within 30 days after the resolution levying
the assessment is adopted pursuant to Section 36626. Any appeal from a final judgment in an action or
proceeding shall be perfected within 30 days after the entry of judgment.

Section 36634. The city council may execute baseline service contracts that would establish levels of city
services that would continue after a property and business improvement district has been formed.

Section 36635. The owners' association may, at any time, request that the city council modify the
management district plan. Any modification of the management district plan shall be made pursuant to this
chapter.

Section 36636. (a) Upon the written request of the owners' association, the city council may modify
the management district plan after conducting one public hearing on the proposed modifications. The
city council may modify the improvements and activities to be funded with the revenue derived from the
levy of the assessments by adopting a resolution determining to make the modifications after holding a
public hearing on the proposed modifications. If the modification includes the levy of a new or increased
assessment, the city council shall comply with Section 36623. Notice of all other public hearings pursuant to
this section shall comply with both of the following:

(1)	The resolution of intention shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation
in the city once at least seven days before the public hearing.

(2)	A complete copy of the resolution of intention shall be mailed by first class mail,
at least 10 days before the public hearing, to each business owner or property
owner affected by the proposed modification.

(b)	The city council shall adopt a resolution of intention which states the proposed
modification prior to the public hearing required by this section. The public hearing
shall be held not more than 90 days after the adoption of the resolution of intention.

Section 36637. Any subsequent modification of the resolution shall be reflected in subsequent notices and
maps recorded pursuant to Division 4.5 (commencing with Section 3100), in a manner consistent with the
provisions of Section 36627.

Section 36640. (a) The city council may, by resolution, determine and declare that bonds shall be issued
to finance the estimated cost of some or all of the proposed improvements described in the resolution of
formation adopted pursuant to Section 36625, if the resolution of formation adopted pursuant to that section
provides for the issuance of bonds, under the Improvement Bond Act of 1915 (Division 10 (commencing
with Section 8500)) or in conjunction with Marks-Roos Local Bond Pooling Act of 1985 (Article 4
(commencing with Section 6584) of Chapter 5 of Division 7 of Title 1 of the Government Code). Either act,
as the case may be, shall govern the proceedings relating to the issuance of bonds, although proceedings
under the Bond Act of 1915 may be modified by the city council as necessary to accommodate assessments
levied upon business pursuant to this part.

(b)	The resolution adopted pursuant to subdivision (a) shall generally describe the proposed
improvements specified in the resolution of formation adopted pursuant to Section
36625, set forth the estimated cost of those improvements, specify the number of
annual installments and the fiscal years during which they are to be collected. The
amount of debt service to retire the bonds shall not exceed the amount of revenue
estimated to be raised from assessments over 30 years.

(c)	Notwithstanding any other provision of this part, assessments levied to pay the
principal and interest on any bond issued pursuant to this section shall not be reduced
or terminated if doing so would interfere with the timely retirement of the debt.

Section 36650. (a) The owners' association shall cause to be prepared a report for each fiscal year, except
the first year, for which assessments are to be levied and collected to pay the costs of the improvements,
maintenance, and activities described in the report. The owners' association's first report shall be due after
the first year of operation of the district. The report may propose changes, including, but not limited to, the

NSDSDO-132

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

boundaries of the property and business improvement district or any benefit zones within the district, the
basis and method of levying the assessments, and any changes in the classification of property, including
any categories of business, if a classification is used.

(b)	The report shall be filed with the clerk and shall refer to the property and business
improvement district by name, specify the fiscal year to which the report applies, and,
with respect to that fiscal year, shall contain all of the following information:

(1)	Any proposed changes in the boundaries of the property and business improvement
district or in any benefit zones or classification of property or businesses within
the district.

(2)	The improvements, maintenance, and activities to be provided for that fiscal year.

(3)	An estimate of the cost of providing the improvements, maintenance, and activities
for that fiscal year.

(4)	The method and basis of levying the assessment in sufficient detail to allow each
real property or business owner, as appropriate, to estimate the amount of the
assessment to be levied against his or her property or business for that fiscal year.

(5)	The estimated amount of any surplus or deficit revenues to be carried over from
a previous fiscal year.

(6)	The estimated amount of any contributions to be made from sources other than
assessments levied pursuant to this part.

(c)	The city council may approve the report as filed by the owners' association or may modify
any particular contained in the report and approve it as modified. Any modification shall
be made pursuant to Sections 36635 and 36636.

The city council shall not approve a change in the basis and method of levying
assessments that would impair an authorized or executed contract to be paid from
the revenues derived from the levy of assessments, including any commitment to pay
principal and interest on any bonds issued on behalf of the district.

Section 36651. The management district plan may, but is not required to, state that an owners'
association will provide the improvements, maintenance, and activities described in the management district
plan. If the management district plan designates an owners' association, the city shall contract with the
designated nonprofit corporation to provide services.

Section 36660. (a) Any district previously established whose term has expired, or will expire, may be
renewed by following the procedures for establishment as provided in this chapter.

(b)	Upon renewal, any remaining revenues derived from the levy of assessments, or any
revenues derived from the sale of assets acquired with the revenues, shall be transferred
to the renewed district. If the renewed district includes additional parcels or businesses
not included in the prior district, the remaining revenues shall be spent to benefit only
the parcels or businesses in the prior district. If the renewed district does not include
parcels or businesses included in the prior district, the remaining revenues attributable
to these parcels shall be refunded to the owners of these parcels or businesses.

(c)	Upon renewal, a district shall have a term not to exceed 10 years, or, if the district is
authorized to issue bonds, until the maximum maturity of those bonds. There is no
requirement that the boundaries, assessments, improvements, or activities of a renewed
district be the same as the original or prior district.

Section 36670. (a) Any district established or extended pursuant to the provisions of this part, where
there is no indebtedness, outstanding and unpaid, incurred to accomplish any of the purposes of the district,
may be disestablished by resolution by the city council in either of the following circumstances:

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

(1)	If the city council finds there has been misappropriation of funds, malfeasance, or
a violation of law in connection with the management of the district, it shall notice
a hearing on disestablishment.

(2)	During the operation of the district, there shall be a 30-day period each year in which
assessees may request disestablishment of the district. The first such period shall
begin one year after the date of establishment of the district and shall continue for
30 days. The next such 30-day period shall begin two years after the date of the
establishment of the district. Each successive year of operation of the district shall
have such a 30-day period. Upon the written petition of the owners or authorized
representatives of real property or the owners or authorized representatives of
businesses in the area who pay 50 percent or more of the assessments levied,
the city council shall pass a resolution of intention to disestablish the district. The
city council shall notice a hearing on disestablishment.

(b)	The city council shall adopt a resolution of intention to disestablish the district prior to
the public hearing required by this section. The resolution shall state the reason for the
disestablishment, shall state the time and place of the public hearing, and shall contain a
proposal to dispose of any assets acquired with the revenues of the assessments levied
within the property and business improvement district. The notice of the hearing on
disestablishment required by this section shall be given by mail to the property owner
of each parcel or to the owner of each business subject to assessment in the district,
as appropriate. The city shall conduct the public hearing not less than 30 days after
mailing the notice to the property or business owners. The public hearing shall be held
not more than 60 days after the adoption of the resolution of intention.

Section 36671. (a) Upon the disestablishment or expiration without renewal of a district, any remaining
revenues, after all outstanding debts are paid, derived from the levy of assessments, or derived from the sale
of assets acquired with the revenues, or from bond reserve or construction funds, shall be refunded to the
owners of the property or businesses then located and operating within the district in which assessments
were levied by applying the same method and basis that was used to calculate the assessments levied in the
fiscal year in which the district is disestablished or expires. All outstanding assessment revenue collected
after disestablishment shall be spent on improvements and activities specified in the management district
plan.

(b)	If the disestablishment occurs before an assessment is levied for the fiscal year, the
method and basis that was used to calculate the assessments levied in the immediate
prior fiscal year shall be used to calculate the amount of any refund.

California Government Code Section 1090
Prohibitions Applicable to Specified Officers
Section 1090.

(a)	Members of the Legislature, state, county, district, judicial district, and city officers
or employees shall not be financially interested in any contract made by them in their
official capacity, or by any bod y or board of which they are members. Nor shall state,
county, district, judicial district, and city officers or employees be purchasers at any
sale or vendors at any purchase made by them in their official capacity.

(b)	An individual shall not aid or abet a Member of the Legislature or a state, county, district,
judicial district, or city officer or employee in violating subdivision (a).

(c)	As used in this article, "district" means any agency of the state formed pursuant to
general law or special act, for the local performance of governmental or proprietary
functions within limited boundaries.

NSD SDO-134

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

California Government Code Sections 54951,54952, and 54954.2

Section 54951. As used in this chapter, "local agency" means a county, city, whether general law or
chartered, city and county, town, school district, municipal corporation, district, political subdivision, or any
board, commission or agency thereof, or other local public agency.

Section 54952. As used in this chapter, "legislative body" means:

(a)	The governing body of a local agency or any other local body created by state or federal
statute.

(b)	A commission, committee, board, or other body of a local agency, whether permanent
or temporary, decision making or advisory, created by charter, ordinance, resolution,
or formal action of a legislative body. However, advisory committees, composed solely
of the members of the legislative body that are less than a quorum of the legislative
body are not legislative bodies, except that standing committees of a legislative body,
irrespective of their composition, which have a continuing subject matter jurisdiction,
or a meeting schedule fixed by charter, ordinance, resolution, or formal action of a
legislative body are legislative bodies for purposes of this chapter.

(c)	(1) A board, commission, committee, or other multimember body that governs a private
corporation, limited liability company, or other entity that either:

(A)	Is created by the elected legislative body in order to exercise authority
that may lawfully be delegated by the elected governing body to a private
corporation, limited liability company, or other entity.

(B)	Receives funds from a local agency and the membership of whose governing
body includes a member of the legislative body of the local agency appointed
to that governing body as a full voting member by the legislative body of the
local agency.

(2) Notwithstanding subparagraph (B) of paragraph (1), no board, commission,
committee, or other multimember body that governs a private corporation, limited
liability company, or other entity that receives funds from a local agency and, as of
February 9,1996, has a member of the legislative body of the local agency as a full
voting member of the governing body of that private corporation, limited liability
company, or other entity shall be relieved from the public meeting requirements of
this chapter by virtue of a change in status of the full voting member to a nonvoting
member.

(d)	The lessee of any hospital the whole or part of which is first leased pursuant to
subdivision (p) of Section 32121 of the Health and Safety Code after January 1,1994,
where the lessee exercises any material authority of a legislative body of a local agency
delegated to it by that legislative body whether the lessee is organized and operated by
the local agency or by a delegated authority.

Section 54954.2 Agenda; posting; action on other matters; posting on Internet Web site

(a)	(1)	At least 72 hours before a regular meeting, the legislative body of the local agency, or

its designee, shall post an agenda containing a brief general description of each item of
business to be transacted or discussed at the meeting, including items to be discussed
in closed session. A brief general description of an item generally need not exceed 20
words. The agenda shall specify the time and location of the regular meeting and shall
be posted in a location that is freely accessible to members of the public and on the local
agency's Internet Web site, if the local agency has one. If requested, the agenda shall be
made available in appropriate alternative formats to persons with a disability, as required
by Section 202 of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. Sec. 12132),
and the federal rules and regulations adopted in implementation thereof. The agenda
shall include information regarding how, to whom, and when a request for disability
related modification or accommodation, including auxiliary aids or services, may be

NSD SDO-135

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

made by a person with a disability who requires a modification or accommodation in
order to participate in the public meeting.

(2)	No action or discussion shall be undertaken on any item not appearing on the
posted agenda, except that members of a legislative body or its staff may briefly
respond to statements made or questions posed by persons exercising their public
testimony rights under Section 54954.3. In addition, on their own initiative or in
response to questions posed by the public, a member of a legislative body or its
staff may ask a question for clarification, make a brief announcement, or make a
brief report on his or her own activities. Furthermore, a member of a legislative
bod y, or the body itself, subject to rules or procedures of the legislative body,
may provide a reference to staff or other resources for factual information, request
staff to report back to the body at a subsequent meeting concerning any matter,
or take action to direct staff to place a matter of business on a future agenda.

(b)	Notwithstanding subdivision (a), the legislative body may take action on items of
business not appearing on the posted agenda under any of the conditions stated below.
Prior to discussing any item pursuant to this subdivision, the legislative body shall
publicly identify the item.

(1)	Upon a determination by a majority vote of the legislative body that an emergency
situation exists, as defined in Section 54956.5.

(2)	Upon a determination by a two-thirds vote of the members of the legislative body
present at the meeting, or, if less than two-thirds of the members are present, a
unanimous vote of those members present, that there is a need to take immediate
action and that the need for action came to the attention of the local agency
subsequent to the agenda being posted as specified in subdivision (a).

(3)	The item was posted pursuant to subdivision (a) for a prior meeting of the
legislative body occurring not more than five calendar days prior to the date
action is taken on the item, and at the prior meeting the item was continued to
the meeting at which action is being taken.

(c)	This section is necessary to implement and reasonably within the scope of paragraph
(1) of subdivision (b) of Section 3 of Article I of the California Constitution.

(d)	For purposes of subdivision (a), the requirement that the agenda be posted on the local
agency's Internet Web site, if the local agency has one, shall only apply to a legislative
body that meets either of the following standards:

(1)	A legislative body as that term is defined by subdivision (a) of Section 54952.

(2)	A legislative body as that term is defined by subdivision (b) of Section 54952, if the
members of the legislative body are compensated for their appearance, and if one
or more of the members of the legislative body are also members of a legislative
body as that term is defined by subdivision (a) of Section 54952.

San Diego City Charter Section 221: Sale of Real Property

Real property owned by The City of San Diego consisting of eighty (80) contiguous acres or more, whether
or not in separate parcels, shall not be sold or exchanged unless such sale or exchange shall have first been
authorized by ordinance of the Council and thereafter ratified by the electors of The City of San Diego. The
foregoing shall not apply to the sale or exchange of real property to a governmental agency for bona fide
governmental purposes which sale or exchange was duly authorized by ordinance of the Council, nor shall it
apply to properties previously authorized for disposition by the electors of The City of San Diego.

N SD SDO-136

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

Jobs and Economic Improvement Through Environmental Leadership Act of 2011 California Public

Resources Code

Section 21178. The Legislature finds and declares all of the following:

(a)	The overall unemployment rate in California is 12 percent, and in certain regions of the
state that rate exceeds 13 percent.

(b)	The California Environmental Quality Act (Division 13 (commencing with Section 21000)
of the Public Resources Code) requires that the environmental impacts of development
projects be identified and mitigated.

(c)	The act also guarantees the public an opportunity to review and comment on the
environmental impacts of a project and to participate meaningfully in the development
of mitigation measures for potentially significant environmental impacts.

(d)	There are large projects under consideration in various regions of the state that would
replace old and outmoded facilities with new job-creating facilities to meet those regions'
needs while also establishing new, cutting-edge environmental benefits to those regions.

(e)	These projects are privately financed or financed from revenues generated from the
projects themselves and do not require taxpayer financing.

(f)	These projects further will generate thousands of full-time jobs during construction and
thousands of additional permanent jobs once they are constructed and operating.

(g)	These projects also present an unprecedented opportunity to implement nation-leading
innovative measures that will significantly reduce traffic, air quality, and other significant
environmental impacts, and fully mitigate the greenhouse gas emissions resulting from
passenger vehicle trips attributed to the project.

(h)	These pollution reductions will be the best in the nation compared to other comparable
projects in the United States.

(i)	The purpose of this act is to provide unique and unprecedented streamlining benefits
under the California Environmental Quality Act for projects that provide the benefits
described above for a limited period of time to put people to work as soon as possible.

Section 21180. For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall have the following meanings:

(a)	"Applicant" means a public or private entity or its affiliates, or a person or entity that
undertakes a public works project that proposes a project and its successors, heirs, and
assignees.

(b)	"Environmental leadership development project," "leadership project," or "project" means
a project as described in Section 21065 that is one the following:

(1)	A residential, retail, commercial, sports, cultural, entertainment, or recreational use
project that is certified as LEED silver or better by the United States Green Building
Council and, where applicable, that achieves a 10-percent greater standard for
transportation efficiency than for comparable projects. These projects must
be located on an infill site. For a project that is within a metropolitan planning
organization for which a sustainable communities strategy or alternative planning
strategy is in effect, the infill project shall be consistent with the general use
designation, density, building intensity, and applicable policies specified for the
project area in either a sustainable communities strategy or an alternative planning
strategy, for which the State Air Resources Board, pursuant to subparagraph (H)
of paragraph (2) of subdivision (b) of Section 65080 of the Government Code, has
accepted a metropolitan planning organization's determination that the sustainable
communities strategy or the alternative planning strategy would, if implemented,
achieve the greenhouse gas emission reduction targets.

(2)	A clean renewable energy project that generates electricity exclusively through
wind or solar, but not including waste incineration or conversion.

PR-09L0-136

N SD SDO-137

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

(3)	A clean energy manufacturing project that manufactures products, equipment, or
components used for renewable energy generation, energy efficiency, or for the
production of clean alternative fuel vehicles.

(c)	"Transportation efficiency" means the number of vehicle trips by employees, visitors,
or customers of the residential, retail, commercial, sports, cultural, entertainment,
or recreational use project divided by the total number of employees, visitors, and
customers.

Section 21181. This chapter does not apply to a project if the Governor does not certify a project as an
environmental leadership development project eligible for streamlining provided pursuant to this chapter prior
to January 1,2016.

Section 21182. A person proposing to construct a leadership project may apply to the Governor for
certification that the leadership project is eligible for streamlining provided by this chapter. The person shall
supply evidence and materials that the Governor deems necessary to make a decision on the application. Any
evidence or materials shall be made available to the public at least 15 days before the Governor certifies a
project pursuant to this chapter.

Section 21183. The Governor may certify a leadership project for streamlining pursuant to this chapter if all
the following conditions are met:

(a)	The project will result in a minimum investment of one hundred million dollars
($100,000,000) in California upon completion of construction.

(b) The project creates high-wage, highly skilled jobs that pay prevailing wages and living
wages and provide construction jobs and permanent jobs for Californians, and helps
reduce unemployment. For purposes of this subdivision, "jobs that pay prevailing wages"
means that all construction workers employed in the execution of the project will receive
at least the general prevailing rate of per diem wages for the type of work and geographic
area, as determined by the Director of Industrial Relations pursuant to Sections 1773
and 1773.9 of the Labor Code. If the project is certified for streamlining, the project
applicant shall include this requirement in all contracts for the performance of the work.

(c)	The project does not result in any net additional emission of greenhouse gases, including
greenhouse gas emissions from employee transportation, as determined by the State
Air Resources Board pursuant to Division 25.5 (commencing with Section 38500) of
the Health and Safety Code.

(d)	The project applicant has entered into a binding and enforceable agreement that all
mitigation measures required pursuant to this division to certify the project under this
chapter shall be conditions of approval of the project, and those conditions will be fully
enforceable by the lead agency or another agency designated by the lead agency. In
the case of environmental mitigation measures, the applicant agrees, as an ongoing
obligation, that those measures will be monitored and enforced by the lead agency for
the life of the obligation.

(e)	The project applicant agrees to pay the costs of the Court of Appeal in hearing and
deciding any case, including payment of the costs for the appointment of a special
master if deemed appropriate by the court, in a form and manner specified by the
Judicial Council, as provided in the Rules of Court adopted by the Judicial Council
pursuant to subdivision (f) of Section 21185.

(f)	The project applicant agrees to pay the costs of preparing the administrative record
for the project concurrent with review and consideration of the project pursuant to this
division, in a form and manner specified by the lead agency for the project.

PR-09L0-137

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

Section 21184. (a) The Governor may certify a project for streamlining pursuant to this chapter if it complies
with the conditions specified in Section 21183.

(b)	(1) Prior to certifying a project, the Governor shall make a determination that each of
the conditions specified in Section 21183 has been met. These findings are not subject
to judicial review.

(2) (A) If the Governor determines that a leadership project is eligible for
streamlining pursuant to this chapter, he or she shall submit that determination,
and any supporting information, to the Joint Legislative Budget Committee for
review and concurrence or nonconcurrence.

(B)	Within 30 days of receiving the determination, the Joint Legislative Budget
Committee shall concur or nonconcur in writing on the determination.

(C)	The Joint Legislative Budget Committee fails to concur or nonconcur
on a determination by the Governor within 30 days of the submittal, the
leadership project is deemed to be certified.

(c)	The Governor may issue guidelines regarding application and certification of projects
pursuant to this chapter. Any guidelines issued pursuant to this subdivision are not
subject to the rulemaking provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act (Chapter 3.5
(commencing with Section 11340) of Part 1 of Division 3 of Title 2 of the Government
Code).

Section 21185. On or before July 1, 2014, the Judicial Council shall adopt a rule of court to establish
procedures applicable to actions or proceedings brought to attack, review, set aside, void, or annul the
certification of the environmental impact report for an environmental leadership development project certified
by the Governor pursuant to this chapter or the granting of any project approvals that require the actions or
proceedings, including any potential appeals therefrom, be resolved, within 270 days of certification of the
record of proceedings pursuant to Section 21186.

Section 21186. Notwithstanding any other law, the preparation and certification of the administrative record
for a leadership project certified by the Governor shall be performed in the following manner:

(a)	The lead agency for the project shall prepare the administrative record pursuant to this
division concurrently with the administrative process.

(b)	All documents and other materials placed in the administrative record shall be posted
on, and be downloadable from, an Internet Web site maintained by the lead agency
commencing with the date of the release of the draft environmental impact report.

(c)	The lead agency shall make available to the public in a readily accessible electronic
format the draft environmental impact report and all other documents submitted to, or
relied on by, the lead agency in the preparation of the draft environmental impact report.

(d)	A document prepared by the lead agency or submitted by the applicant after the date
of the release of the draft environmental impact report that is a part of the record of
the proceedings shall be made available to the public in a readily accessible electronic
format within five business days after the document is released or received by the lead
agency.

(e)	The lead agency shall encourage written comments on the project to be submitted in a
readily accessible electronic format, and shall make any comment available to the public
in a readily accessible electronic format within five days of its receipt.

(f)	Within seven business days after the receipt of any comment that is not in an electronic
format, the lead agency shall convert that comment into a readily accessible electronic
format and make it available to the public in that format.

(g)	Notwithstanding paragraphs (b) to (f), inclusive, documents submitted to or relied on
by the lead agency that were not prepared specifically for the project and are copyright
protected are not required to be made readily accessible in an electronic format. For

PR-09L0-138

NSD SDO-139

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

those copyright-protected documents, the lead agency shall make an index of these
documents available in an electronic format no later than the date of the release of
the draft environmental impact report, or within five business days if the document
is received or relied on by the lead agency after the release of the draft environmental
impact report. The index must specify the libraries or lead agency offices in which hard
copies of the copyrighted materials are available for public review.

(h)	The lead agency shall certify the final administrative record within five days of its
approval of the project.

(i)	Any dispute arising from the administrative record shall be resolved by the superior
court. Unless the superior court directs otherwise, a party disputing the content of the
record shall file a motion to augment the record at the time it files its initial brief.

(j)	The contents of the record of proceedings shall be as set forth in subdivision (e) of
Section 21167.6.

Section 21187. Within 10 days of the Governor certifying an environmental leadership development project
pursuant to this section, the lead agency shall, at the applicant's expense, issue a public notice in no less than
12-point type stating the following:

"THE APPLICANT HAS ELECTED TO PROCEED UNDER CHAPTER 6.5 (COMMENCING
WITH SECTION 21178) OFTHE PUBLIC RESOURCES CODE, WHICH PROVIDES, AMONG
OTHER THINGS, THAT ANY JUDICIAL ACTION CHALLENGING THE CERTIFICATION OF
THE EIR OR THE APPROVAL OF THE PROJECT DESCRIBED IN THE EIR IS SUBJECT
TO THE PROCEDURES SET FORTH IN SECTIONS 21185 TO 21186,1NCLUSIVE, OFTHE
PUBLIC RESOURCES CODE. A COPY OF CHAPTER 6.5 (COMMENCING WITH SECTION
21178) OFTHE PUBLIC RESOURCES CODE IS INCLUDED BELOW."

The public notice shall be distributed by the lead agency as required for public notices issued pursuant to
paragraph (3) of subdivision (b) of Section 21092.

Section 21188. The provisions of this chapter are severable. If any provision of this chapter or its
application is held to be invalid, that invalidity shall not affect any other provision or application that can be
given effect without the invalid provision or application.

Section 21189. Except as otherwise provided expressly in this chapter, nothing in this chapter affects the
duty of any party to comply with this division.

Section 21189.1. If, prior to January 1,2017, a lead agency fails to approve a project certified by the
Governor pursuant to this chapter, then the certification expires and is no longer valid.

Section 21189.2. The Judicial Council shall report to the Legislature on or before January 1,2017, on the
effects of this chapter on the administration of justice.

Section 21189.3. This chapter shall remain in effect until January 1, 2017, and as of that date is repealed
unless a later enacted statute extends or repeals that date.

California Public Resources Code Section 30103

(a) "Coastal zone" means that land and water area of the State of California from the Oregon
border to the border of the Republic of Mexico, specified on the maps identified and
set forth in Section 17 of that chapter of the Statutes of the 1975-76 Regular Session
enacting this division, extending seaward to the state's outer limit of jurisdiction,
including all offshore islands, and extending inland generally 1,000 yards from the
mean high tide line of the sea. In significant coastal estuarine, habitat, and recreational
areas it extends inland to the first major ridgeline paralleling the sea or five miles from
the mean high tide line of the sea, whichever is less, and in developed urban areas
the zone generally extends inland less than 1,000 yards. The coastal zone does not
include the area of jurisdiction of the San Francisco Bay Conservation and Development
Commission, established pursuant to Title 7.2 (commencing with Section 66600) of

N SD SDO-140

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

the Government Code, nor any area contiguous thereto, including any river, stream,
tributary, creek, or flood control or drainage channel flowing into such area.

(b) The commission shall, within 60 days after its first meeting, prepare and adopt a detailed
map, on a scale of one inch equals 24,000 inches for the coastal zone and shall file
a copy of the map with the county clerk of each coastal county. The purpose of this
provision is to provide greater detail than is provided by the maps identified in Section 17
of that chapter of the Statutes of the 1975-76 Regular Session enacting this division. The
commission may adjust the inland boundary of the coastal zone the minimum landward
distance necessary up to a maximum of 100 yards except as otherwise provided in this
subdivision, or the minimum distance seaward necessary up to a maximum of 200
yards, to avoid bisecting any single lot or parcel or to conform it to readily identifiable
natural or manmade features. Where a landward adjustment is requested by the local
government and agreed to by the property owner, the maximum distance shall be 200
yards.

California Public Resources Code Section 21065

"Project" means an activity which may cause either a direct physical change in the environment, or a reasonably
foreseeable indirect physical change in the environment, and which is any of the following:

(a)	An activity directly undertaken by any public agency.

(b)	An activity undertaken by a person which is supported, in whole or in part, through
contracts, grants, subsidies, loans, or other forms of assistance from one or more public
agencies.

(c)	An activity that involves the issuance to a person of a lease, permit, license, certificate,
or other entitlement for use by one or more public agencies.

San Diego City Charter Section 6: Qualified Electors

The qualifications of an elector at any election held in the City under the provisions of this Charter shall be
the same as those prescribed by the general law of the State for the qualification of electors at General State
Elections. No person shall be eligible to vote at such City election until he has conformed to the general State
law governing the registration of voters.

San Diego City Charter Section 211: Oath of Office

Every officer or member of a Committee, Board or of a Commission of the City shall, before entering upon the
duties of his office, take and subscribe to an oath or affirmation as provided by the Constitution or General Law
of the State to be filed and kept in the office of the City Clerk.

San Diego Municipal Code Section 112.0502: Process One

An application for a permit, map, or other matter acted upon in accordance with Process One may be approved
or denied by a staff person designated by the City Manager pursuant to Section 111.0205. A public hearing will
not be held, and a Process One decision may not be appealed except as otherwise set forth in Section 141.0418.

A statement of reasons for the proposed action as contemplated in said petition is as follows:

Statement of Reasons

Our connection to the Pacific Ocean and its beaches, bays, harbors, rivers and tributaries, and our
tourism and entertainment resources, are big parts of San Diego s identity. Critically important to our economy
and quality of life, these resources require responsible management in order to accommodate visitors and
residents who demand access to our waterways, beautiful, first-class venues, and very best of experiences.

Tourism and entertainment both benefit from, and impact, San Diego s infrastructure and facilities,
and the health of each is inextricably linked.

But our tourism- and entertainment-related facilities and infrastructure have deteriorated and
are failing from lack of vision and years of neglect. This is the result of there being no single, coordinated
mechanism to responsibly manage these public resources.

NSD SDO-141

BALLOT MEASURE (continued)

Our City's transient occupancy tax is far below its competitive market average for comparable major
tourist destinations, contributing to a roughly $1.7 billion facilities and infrastructure deficit throughout the City.

When businesses and visitors pay their fair share to maintain public assets, everyone benefits.

A recent report found that some competing cities' lodging taxes are much higher than the City's
rate: Anaheim 17%, Seattle 16.5%, San Francisco 16.25%, and Los Angeles 15.5%. San Diego's transient
occupancy tax is 10.5%, which results in delayed repairs, less maintenance, the postponing of new attractions
and venues, and the loss of world admiration. We cannot allow that to continue.

Along with fair-share funding, we also need a better approach to oversight of these issues, and our
valuable tourism- and entertainment-related resources, so our problems do not repeat themselves.

Requiring tourists and tourism businesses to pay their fair share, and reforming the City's overall
management of its tourism- and entertainment-related resources, is a sensible, unified way to manage our
tourism and entertainment economy in a responsible manner.

Date: October 26, 2015

Donna Frye

Mailing Address:	814 Morena Boulevard

San Diego, CA 92110

N SD SDO-142