VOTER INFORMATION PAMPHLET

009

The following pages contain voter information applicable to your ballot which
may include any/all of the following items:

>	CANDIDATES’ STATEMENTS

>	BALLOT MEASURES

>	ANALYSES

>	ARGUMENTS, FOR & AGAINST

This pamphlet section may not contain a statement for each candidate. A complete list of candidates appears on the
Ballot/Sample Ballot. Each candidate’s statement in this pamphlet is volunteered by the candidate and is printed at the
expense of the candidate unless otherwise determined by the governing body. Each candidate’s statement is printed in
uniform format exactly as submitted by the candidate.

ARGUMENTS IN SUPPORT OF OR IN OPPOSITION TO THE
PROPOSED LAW ARE OPINIONS OF THE AUTHORS

Prop. 34 - Expenditure Limitations: State Legislative Candidates

Proposition 34 was passed by voters in November 2000. The law requires county election officials to provide
the names of those State Legislative candidates who have voluntarily agreed to expenditure limits. Candidates
who agree to the expenditure limits may submit and pay for a Candidate’s Statement of Qualification to be
printed in this pamphlet. The following State Legislative candidates appearing on ballots in El Dorado County
have accepted the voluntary expenditure limitations pursuant to Proposition 34.

1st State Senate	5th State Assembly	6th State Assembly
Rob Rowen, Democratic	Robert Carabas, Democratic	Brian Caples, Democratic
Ted Gaines, Republican	Frank Bigelow, Republican	Kevin Kiley, Republican

Party Endorsement

ELECTION CODE 13302. (b) In connection with an election at which a candidate for a voter-nominated office will appear on the ballot, a qualified political
party may submit to the county elections official a list of all candidates for voter-nominated office who will appear on a ballot in the county in question, and
who have been endorsed by the party by whatever lawful mechanism the party adopts for endorsing candidates for voter-nominated office. If a political
party timely submits a list to the county elections official pursuant to this subdivision, the county elections official shall print the names of the candidates for
voter-nominated office who were endorsed by that political party in the voter information portion of the sample ballot. The party chairperson shall provide a
written copy of the list of candidates endorsed by the party not later than 83 days prior to the election at which the candidate for a voter-nominated office
will appear on the ballot. (Amended by Stats. 2012, Ch. 3, Sec. 43. Effective February 10, 2012.)

The following is a list of candidates appearing on the ballot in El Dorado County that have been endorsed,
pursuant to EC 13302(b), by the listed political parties. All questions about this list should be directed to the party
in question.

Party	US Senate	4th Congress	1st Senate	5th Assembly	6th Assembly
American Independent	None	Tom McClintock	Ted Gaines	Frank Bigelow	Kevin P Kiley
Democratic	Kamala D Harris	Robert W Derlet	Rob Rowen	Robert Carabas	Brian Caples
Peace and Freedom	None	None	None	None	None
Republican	None	Tom McClintock	Ted Gaines	Frank Bigelow	Kevin P Kiley

The following is a list of party abbreviations used on your ballot.			
DEM - Democratic	REP - Republican	Al - American Independent	GRN - Green
LIB-Libertarian	PF - Peace and Freedom	REP, Al - Republican, American Independent (for Trump/Pence nomination only)	

VPI-009

Who is on the ballot for this election?

In the November General Election, all voters receive the same ballot, no matter what political party you are
registered with (or if you have no party preference). The address where you are registered to vote
determines which contests are on your ballot.

The top two-the ones with the most votes in the Primary Election-are on your ballot
for this election.

In the June Primary Election, all Californians were able to vote to decide which candidates for state and local
offices moved on to the November General Election.

Offices that are part of the Top 2 Primary

The following offices, called voter-nominated offices, are part of the Top 2 Primary:

•	U.S. Senator

•	U.S. Representative

•	State Senator

•	State Assembly Member

There is no write-in for these offices.

Both candidates on the ballot may have the same party preference. A candidate may be nominated by
more than one party. The candidate’s party preference (or “None”) is listed under their name. For
example:

JOHN SMITH
Party Preference: DEM

JANE DOE

Party Preference: REP

CHRIS JONES
Party Preference: NONE

County, city, school and

Candidates for the following nonpartisan offices were chosen in the June Primary Election:

•	County Supervisor

If a candidate for these local offices received at least 50% plus 1 vote in the Primary, they were elected
and are not on the General Election ballot.

OR

If no candidate won, the two candidates with the most votes are on the ballot.

•	Also on the November ballot are candidates running for school and special districts, as well as city
offices.

You can write-in a candidate for these offices.

Candidates for nonpartisan local offices do not have a party preference listed on the ballot.

For more information, you can call the Elections Department at (530) 621-7480.

The following party abbreviations have been used on your ballot.		
DEM - Democratic	REP - Republican	Al - American Independent
GRN - Green	LIB - Libertarian	PF - Peace and Freedom
REP, Al - Republican, American Independent (for Trump/Pence nomination only)		

special district offices

Are You Having Difficulty Voting Because of a Disability? CALL: 1-888-569-7955

Disability Rights California will operate a statewide hotline from 7:00 AM to 8:00PM on Election Day to help
voters with disabilities have a successful voting experience.

VIP-02

STATEMENT OF CANDIDATE FOR UNITED STATES REPRESENTATIVE 4TH DISTRICT  ROBERT WDERLET  Occupation: Physician, Professor, Author  Education and Qualifications: Listening to the people in this district motivated me to run for Congress. Too many families, young people, and retired workers experience pain and frustration created by the growing costs of everyday living, from housing costs to groceries. Increased healthcare costs top the list, with families paying outrageous costs for insurance, deductibles, non-covered services, and prescription drugs. I’ll fight to lower healthcare costs for everyone and also offer Medicare beginning at age 55.  I’ll vote to increase consumer protection to counter deceptive Wall Street practices and keep Social Security and Medicare away from Wall Street privatization.  I’ll fight to keep good jobs in the USA, increase wages and benefits, support legislation to reduce the cost of education, and help small businesses succeed.  Our High Sierra forests face new wildfire threats from drought and warming temperatures. I’ll work to increase funding to remove dead trees and brush, protect our watershed, ensure clean air and water, and also support measures to tackle global climate change.  I’ve worked hard all my life, beginning at age 8 delivering newspapers, then labored in clerical, factory, shipping, ranching, and construction jobs. After becoming a physician, 1 served 18 years as Professor and Chief of the Emergency Department, UC Davis Medical Center, where 1 taught medical students and supervised the care of nearly 1 million ER patients. I’ve hiked thousands of miles in our district’s wilderness watershed while conducting research on water bacteria and quality in the High Sierra.  Please visit www.derletforcongress.com.	STATEMENT OF CANDIDATE FOR UNITED STATES REPRESENTATIVE 4TH DISTRICT  TOM McCLINTOCK  Occupation: United States Representative  Education and Qualifications: America has enjoyed its greatest prosperity and happiness when it has known its greatest freedom. Our Founders created a society where we were free to make our own choices, enjoy the fruit of our own labors, take responsibility for our own decisions and lead our own lives with a minimum of governmental interference and intrusion. Government protected our fundamental rights and left us otherwise alone to live our own lives as we saw fit. Today, a very different vision competes for our future: an all-powerful government that commands our economic decisions, micro-manages our daily lives, and consumes more and more of our earnings. In the last eight years, it has disrupted our healthcare system, shrunk our family incomes, threatened our constitutional rights, doubled our national debt, overwhelmed us with illegal immigration and placed our children in danger of becoming the first American generation to be less well off than their parents.  The election of 2016 will decide whether America becomes another failed socialist state or whether this generation of Americans revives and restores the founding American principles of individual liberty, constitutionally limited government and personal responsibility that produced the happiest, freest and most prosperous society in human history.  You sent me to Washington to fight to restore the freedom that made America great, and 1 am doing everything in my power to do so.  1 am asking for your support to continue this fight. You can read more about my proposals at TomMcClintock.com.
STATEMENT OF CANDIDATE FOR STATE ASSEMBLY 5TH DISTRICT  FRANK BIGELOW AGE: 62  Occupation: Rancher/Businessman/Assemblyman Education and Qualifications: As your Assemblyman, you’ve put your trust in me to protect taxpayers from Sacramento’s out-of-control spending and to defend our way of life. Despite all the work we’ve done together, it’s clear there are many problems left to solve.  That’s why I’m asking for your trust to continue our fight for a stronger economy, a smaller state government, additional water storage for our communities and the quality education our children deserve.  Our region’s unemployment rate remains higher than the rest of California and we simply must take action to provide economic opportunity for those who are out of work.  That opportunity starts with a strong education. That’s why 1 supported a plan to invest in early childhood education and ensure our local schools get their fair share. And it’s also why I’m supporting a proposal to help our schools build new facilities to help all our children succeed.  When it comes to strengthening our economy, I’ll continue to work on policies that not only create new jobs, but also keep the ones we have from being lost to other states.  And I’ll continue to be an outspoken voice to help deliver water to our communities and invest in water storage projects for the future.  I’d be honored with your trust and your vote to continue our fight for  local jobs and a stronger local economy.  www.frankbigelow.com	STATEMENT OF CANDIDATE FOR STATE ASSEMBLY 5TH DISTRICT  ROBERT CARABAS  Occupation: Retired  Education and Qualifications: As 1 look around my district 1 am deeply concerned about the lack of opportunities for young people, which were plentiful when 1 was a kid. For years, like many of us, 1 wanted to believe that this problem would solve itself, or wasn’t as bad as 1 thought. With the arrival of the first of five grandchildren however,  1 felt driven to stop talking about the issues and run for political office, to find workable solutions, and help rebuild the American Dream for everyone’s children and grandchildren.  This isn’t my first time in the political arena. When the infrastructure of the Berkeley Public Schools was crumbling around my children, 1 worked tirelessly with other parents to pass a bond measure that rebuilt every school, provided books, supplies and materials, while reducing class size. My experience as a corporate credit manager was key to crafting a measure that had parent, teacher and administrator oversight at each school, was fully funded, and was successful in improving Berkeley’s public education in the short and long term.  We need to take this approach statewide. We need to focus on rebuilding infrastructure, reducing healthcare costs, and responding to the changing climate, all while creating living wage jobs so that our citizens can participate in our local economy.  And, perhaps most importantly, 1 will represent all voters in this fight. 1 refuse to take donations over $200, because special interests take care of themselves, not the children and grandchildren that we need to protect.  http://www.facebook.com/robertjamescarabas

09-101

STATEMENT OF CANDIDATE FOR
LOS RIOS COMMUNITY COLLEGE DISTRICT
TRUSTEE AREA 3

MARC ALLAMAN

Occupation: Retired Teacher

Education and Qualifications: El Dorado County deserves the best
representative as their choice for the Los Rios Community College
Board of Trustees. El Dorado County deserves to have a trustee that
has many years of experience working in education. El Dorado
County deserves to have a trustee that has years of experience
working collaboratively to develop multi-million dollar budgets in
education. El Dorado County deserves a trustee that has years of
successful experience working with teacher labor relations and
experience necessary to work effectively with all manner of
stakeholders.

If you share these values, please consider me as your candidate of
choice for Los Rios Community College Board Trustee. I believe in
giving back to our community. I self-finance my campaign. I take no
money from contributors.

I have worked in educational instruction for 33 years in California. I
have successfully served as a local district’s association president as
the lead labor representative and have decades of experience
organizing groups of teachers in management and curriculum
development. I have years of experience of volunteering and currently
serve as a Commissioner for a local city and am also president of a
large local home-owners association and coached youth soccer for 10
years.

STATEMENT OF CANDIDATE FOR
LOS RIOS COMMUNITY COLLEGE DISTRICT
TRUSTEE AREA 3

JOHN R KNIGHT	AGE:	68

Occupation: Los Rios Trustee/Small Business owner
Education and Qualifications: The most important part to remember
about being on the Los Rios Community College District Board is you
and your family. The hard working students who attend our
community colleges deserve all the support and encouragement
possible. Their job is not easy. My job is to make sure necessary
support is there for our students when they need it.

As your trustee, we’ve made progress such opening the new gym
facility at Folsom Lake College and a new student service building at
Sacramento City College. We expanded veterans services and
expanded student services at the El Dorado Center. We opened a
new Rancho Cordova Center. Light rail was extended to Cosumnes
College through partnership with the transit district.

Our district continues to expand educational opportunities while
maintaining a strong financial base. But there is more to be done. We
must ensure that we are reaching all students who desire to improve
their job skills and further their education.

I will continue to support partnerships with the K-12 school systems
and work with students, faculty, administration and the community. It
is my job assure that necessary support for our students. They
deserve no less.

09-202

STATEMENT OF CANDIDATE FOR EL DORADO UNION HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT GOVERNING BOARD MEMBER  DAVID B BICKNELL  Occupation: Local Business Owner  Education and Qualifications: As an involved parent 1 have attended the EDUHSD board meetings for the past several years. 1 worked diligently to ensure the district made necessary corrections to the boundary lines, allowing middle school students to attend high school with their classmates. Beginning in 2017, 1 will have children attend high school within the district until 2023 and will continue working to ensure our students are presented with the best possible learning opportunities.  The role of the board is to provide a high quality education to every student, by effectively managing the staff, teachers, district personnel, facilities and finances while maintaining the trust of the community though proper leadership. 1 have served on various boards, including those in the private sector and non-profit organizations.  1 have managed large numbers of people throughout my business career and have always taken the approach of a servant leader. As a successful business leader, 1 have significant experience in managing personnel, budgeting, the need for compassion and the challenge of making the toughest decisions that can have dramatic impacts across many people.  As a fiscal conservative, your tax dollars will be wisely invested in providing the best possible future for our students of the El Dorado Union High School District.	STATEMENT OF CANDIDATE FOR EL DORADO UNION HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT GOVERNING BOARD MEMBER  DAVID J DEL RIO AGE: 55  Occupation: Executive Director EDCA Lifeskills / Parent Education and Qualifications: I’m excited to run for the High School Board again to focus on District resources in regards to programs and services that impact our students. One example of change is the adjusted boundaries that allow students to attend the high school in their neighborhood. With four years of experience and serving as this year’s president, 1 feel I’m qualified and prepared to address student needs within the District.  I’ve held multiple Board Member positions over the years that include SARB, Kiwanis of Placerville, Big Brothers/Big Sisters, M.O.R.E., Food Bank of El Dorado, and more.  1 began my career with El Dorado County Probation as Counselor/Supervisor of teens. Currently I’m the Executive Director of EDCA Lifeskills, which I’ve managed for the past 19 years. My adult work life has been spent meeting the needs of at-risk children and adults to provide them with a new direction away from crime, drugs, and hopelessness.  I’m a 1979 graduate of Ponderosa High School and am proud to serve in the district 1 graduated. 1 have great confidence in the staff, teachers, students and parents of this district and strive to be fair and make good choices for all. My wife, Chris, and 1 have three children that have graduated from our exceptional high schools.
STATEMENT OF CANDIDATE FOR EL DORADO UNION HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT GOVERNING BOARD MEMBER  DELOY LINK  Occupation: Behavioral Therapist/Small Business Owner Education and Qualifications: 1 am A Leader Who Listens.  As a Trustee 1 will be a forward thinker who provides stable leadership.  Our children deserve a public education which reaches beyond standards.  1 am dedicated to creating a district of national prominence which fully prepares students to participate in a global and local economy.  As a graduate of Ponderosa High School, Cal Poly SLO, and Cal State East Bay, my master’s degree in Counseling Psychology prepared me to become a Behavioral Therapist.  For 22 years 1 have advocated and obtained resources for students who have learning differences and special needs.  In supporting gifted students and over performers, 1 will insight our District to create a STEAM program and provide summer enrichment opportunities for all students.  We must also create a safe and positive learning environment at every school in our district - large and small.  All of this can be done while maintaining strong fiscal controls over district budgets and spending, this includes responsible appropriation of Mello Roos funds.  Together we can give our kids the district they deserve. A vote for Deloy Link is a vote for a Superior Education for All Types of Learners. Visit www.ElectDeloyLink.com	STATEMENT OF CANDIDATE FOR EL DORADO UNION HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT GOVERNING BOARD MEMBER  LORI M VEERKAMP  Occupation: Parent/grandparent/School Board member Education and Qualifications: 1 was first elected to the EDHSD board in 2004. I’m currently the only female board member; 1 bring the woman/mother’s perspective to many decisions. 1 am proud of the accomplishments our district has achieved in the past twelve years. Our student academic achievements continue to surpass most schools within the region.  During the most recent national economic difficulties, our school district was able to retain our highly qualified teaching staff and keep intact our Career Technology/Regional Occupational Programs.  We have maintained a balanced budget with a reserve for financial stability even during one of the worst economic downturns this nation has ever experienced.  Our communities are still reaping the benefits from the Measure Q bond that increased the educational opportunities for all students, significantly enhanced classroom technology, greatly improved our athletic facilities and continues to be a source of community pride throughout the district.  If re-elected, 1 will continue maintaining an environment that attracts highly qualified staff and utilize taxpayer dollars for the benefit of all. 1 would be honored for your support, so 1 can continue working hard for the students and parents of our county. Thank you.

STATEMENT OF CANDIDATE FOR MOTHERLODE UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT GOVERNING BOARD MEMBER  ANTON NEMETH AGE: 69  Occupation: Painter, Ceramist, Small home repairs Education and Qualifications: 1 was Treasurer for the successful Bond Measure C campaign, which leveraged more buying power than anyone expected. It’s implementation will greatly improve the school grounds and buildings at the Indian Creek and Herbert Green campuses. I’ve attending Mother Lode Union School District Board meetings since well before participating in their Community Engagement Committee on Facility Needs which led to the consensus decision giving the best deal for return on taxpayer investment in our children and so the value of our community.  1 volunteer as a Senior Peer Counselor in EDC and materially support the El Dorado Arts. 1 staunchly advocate Arts in public education. Being a Board member is often a difficult job with much detailed material of many kinds to process. Having taken part in arbitrations, and run successful businesses and departments, I’m aware of the intricacies of such positions and continue to keep up with current ideas in many fields. 1 hope you feel these activities give me a functional advantage in policy oversight participation as an MLUSD Trustee, with the best results possible for all, especially the safe and intelligent progress of the community’s children in our schools.  Thank you,  Anton Nemeth	STATEMENT OF CANDIDATE FOR MOTHERLODE UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT GOVERNING BOARD MEMBER  ALAN B PRIESTLEY  Occupation: Senior Telecommunications Engineer Education and Qualifications: 1 relocated to Placerville from the Bay Area in August of 2013 and brought my daughter’s family with me so they could raise their children in a more relaxed and family-centered environment. One grandchild is entering sixth grade and the other seventh grade, both in the Mother Lode Union School District. Helping them with their schoolwork has been a real joy for me, watching them learn and begin to understand new concepts.  These two grandchildren drive my passion for a strong education system. 1 want to serve on the Board of Trustees because 1 believe the Mother Lode Union School District needs a solid governing board. The Board must work with our Superintendent as a team to establish firm and steadfast priorities for the District that focus on the needs of the students and their teachers.  My forty year career in the high-tech industry as a self-taught engineer has afforded me a set of skills to help bring concepts from design through to completion. 1 would like the opportunity to apply those skills along with my own personal beliefs of honesty and openness to the Mother Lode Union School District Board of Trustees to put our children and teachers first.
STATEMENT OF CANDIDATE FOR MOTHERLODE UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT GOVERNING BOARD MEMBER  CATHY WILSON  Occupation: Retired Teacher  Education and Qualifications: 1 want to return Mother Lode Union School District to its distinguished reputation where children are the priority. ALL students deserve the best education to create our future leaders. Teachers need to be heard so children’s education will be superior. It is crucial for all staff to educate each child to their fullest potential. Teachers have an important voice to be heard. 1 will listen to do what’s necessary. During the past few years, we have lost too many valuable educators which hurt our students. Every staff member and student needs to be respected and treated fairly.  1 feel especially qualified for the position of school board member, having taught both regular and special education in this district for 38 years. My two daughters graduated from the district. Also, my grandson began kindergarten at Indian Creek School this year. 1 have been attending school board meetings regularly the past two years to gain knowledge of the district. I’ve talked with parents about their concerns. 1 volunteered in two classrooms over two years, speaking with teachers about what’s needed to strengthen the district. 1 want to make a difference in the Mother Lode Union School District.  Cathy Wilson Retired Teacher	

STATEMENT OF CANDIDATE FOR CITY OF PLACERVILLE CITY COUNCIL MEMBER  MARK A ACUNA AGE: 60  Occupation: Councilmember/Retired Engineer Education and Qualifications: 1 have been honored to serve on the Placerville City Council and ask you for the opportunity to continue my service. 1 enjoy bringing my experience forward to tackle the challenges our city faces.  Our aging historic town is expensive to maintain and operate; Placerville’s roads and pipes have failed. Years as a utility engineer provide me with the knowledge to find realistic, affordable solutions. 1 will work to improve the safety of our water and sewer systems and stabilize utility rates.  Placerville must continue to meet the challenges and impacts from our County, Sacramento regulations and the thousands of people who pass through our town daily. With public input, thoughtful planning and cooperation we can respect our past and plan for a successful future.  1 will continue to address our housing issues, seek realistic solutions to our homeless issues and remain committed to safe streets, trails and parks. 1 support respectful use of our historic courthouse and encourage quality projects in our business districts and in economic growth.  1 will protect our foothill lifestyle with common sense, citizen driven decisions. Thank you for your support and please return me to the City Council with your vote.	STATEMENT OF CANDIDATE FOR CITY OF PLACERVILLE CITY COUNCIL MEMBER  TRISHA WILKINS  Occupation: Councilmember/Homemaker  Education and Qualifications: As a lifelong resident and parent of two beautiful children, 1 understand the issues facing Placerville.  From traffic congestion and historic preservation, to quality education and public safety, 1 share the priorities of my fellow citizens. That is why 1 am running for re-election for City Council. In 2012, the voters gave me the privilege of serving on the City Council. Since then, 1 have voted to ensure the economic vitality of our downtown, worked diligently to promote the public safety of our citizens and to preserve the historic charm that brings such quality of life to our residents. As a community leader, 1 have worked tirelessly to improve public education by bringing the Beyond School Walls program to Placerville. To ensure fiscal responsibility of public education funding, 1 serve as a representative on a Placerville Union School District advisory committee. 1 have completed local leadership training to better represent the interests of residents. 1 currently serve on the Board of the El Dorado County Habitat for Humanity, and am a Big Sister to two Littles through Big Brothers Big Sisters.  1 would appreciate your vote to re-elect Trisha Wilkins to City Council!
	

STATEMENT OF CANDIDATE FOR EL DORADO IRRIGATION DISTRICT DIRECTOR - DIVISION 3  BILL GEORGE  Occupation: Retired Systems Engineer  Education and Qualifications: 31 - year management career with IBM.  You elected me to use my common sense and old-fashioned work ethic to solve EID’s tough problems. With your mandate behind me, 1 led the money saving efforts which modernized District Management and Operations, rebuilt worn-out infrastructure, reduced the number of employees, and balanced every budget. Keeping my promise, I’ve successfully protected our water rights from out of county interests while expanding the precious water supply we all depend on. Producing results, I’ve been working with our representatives in Washington and Sacramento to help EID receive millions of dollars for new improvement projects and breakthrough barriers imposed by out of touch bureaucrats.  With your support, 1 helped write our Drought Action Plan which really worked along with tough policies imposing strict water recycling regulations on El Dorado Hills.  1 represent you on the Boards of both the Mountain County Water Agencies and the Association of California Water Agencies to better protect our water from Southern California. However, we still have more to do. With my successful private sector management career behind me, I’m excited and energized about working for you during the next four years of my public service.  Thank you for your continued support.	STATEMENT OF CANDIDATE FOR EL DORADO IRRIGATION DISTRICT DIRECTOR - DIVISION 3  MICHAEL RAFFETY  Occupation: Small farmer/retired executive  Education and Qualifications: If elected, 1 will have four goals: 1. Support agriculture, large and small. 2. Ensure uninterrupted delivery of water for all. 3. Keep debt to a minimum. 4. Keep rates as low as possible while protecting financial soundness of the district.  1 have analyzed EID’s operations and toured all the facilities with engineers and key staff. While the district has many worthy accomplishments and a fine staff, my concern is the future. One-third of your water depends on rickety, and often very old, wooden flumes. These must be fortified by replacing them with long-lasting precast concrete flumes. 1 will be an agent of change.  1 have a BA, MA, and Advanced Accounting Certificate.  1 aim to protect and enhance our water rights. 1 ask for your vote.
STATEMENT OF CANDIDATE FOR EL DORADO IRRIGATION DISTRICT DIRECTOR-DIVISION 3  CRAIG A SCHMIDT AGE: 61  Occupation: Business Owner  Education and Qualifications. During the past four years 1 have attended the majority of EID’s Board meetings. Countless times 1 have seen 3-2 decisions in favor of EID’s interests or big money versus the interests of residents, business owners and farmers. Often, there is no voice of reason to bridge the gap between these parties. 1 would like to be your ‘voice of reason’ on EID’s Board.  As a business owner and past senior executive for three successful start-ups and two Fortune 500 companies (HP and CA Technologies),  1 know what it’s like to balance budgets, make tough decisions and listen to many diverse views. Based on my business experience and ethics, 1 will put ratepayers first.  Since my family moved here 18 years ago, 1 have seen my share of EID rate increases and rubber stamp spending. As a resident of Cameron Park for twelve years and Placerville for six years, 1 know that affordable services are of paramount importance to all of us. 1 will work diligently to control rates, to keep our water supply safe and to curb spending. It’s time for a change. 1 would appreciate your vote!  More at www.FixEID.com	

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE L

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF PLACERVILLE IMPOSING A TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX
TO BE ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION

WHEREAS, for the past 10 years, sales tax and gas tax funding for maintenance of roads has declined due to the economy and more
efficient vehicles; and

WHEREAS, the condition of City streets and roads is also declining as shown in the City’s Pavement Management study. From 2007 to
2016 the cost of deferred maintenance increased from $7 million to $21 million and continues to grow; and

WHEREAS, City’s Pavement Management Study recommends funding of $930,000 per year to improve roads stop the decline in
pavement condition and to reduce the amount of deferred maintenance; and

WHEREAS, the City currently has available approximately $200,000 per year for streets and road maintenance; and

WHEREAS, if an alternative revenue source is not identified the City’s streets and roads will continue to deteriorate; and

WHEREAS, City water and sewer lines have deteriorated to a point where immediate action is necessary to repair and replace lines; and

WHEREAS, the City’s Capital Improvement Program for water and sewer improvements has identified deferred maintenance of over
$28.5 million; and

WHEREAS, at a public hearing on May 24, 2016, the Council considered calling an election to seek voter approval of a proposed special
transactions and use tax (or “sales tax”), as authorized by Revenue and Taxation Code section 7285.91; and

WHEREAS, after that hearing, the City Council concluded that all of the information presented indicated that in order to create an
additional source of revenue to assist with funding for repair, maintenance and replacement of existing streets, water and sewer facilities, the
Council should call an election to ask the voters of the City to approve a 20-year local transactions and use tax of one-half percent (0.5%); and

WHEREAS, on the basis of the foregoing, the City Council determined that it was appropriate to place a measure regarding a special
transactions and use (sales) tax before the voters at the November 8, 2016 general election; and

WHEREAS, the tax to be submitted, if approved, would be imposed on the sale of tangible personal property and the storage, use, or
other consumption of such property. The tax rate would be one-half of one percent (0.5%) (a half cent for each dollar) of the sales price of the
property. The tax revenue would be collected by the State Board of Equalization and remitted to the City. The tax would be in effect for 20
years, and would then expire automatically, unless extended by the voters. The tax shall be approved if the measure receives at least a two-
thirds majority of those voting on the measure; and

WHEREAS, the Placerville City Council is authorized by California Elections Code Section 9222 to place measures before the voters; and

WHEREAS, Elections Code Sections 9281 through 9287 set forth the procedures for arguments in favor of and in opposition to any City
measure and for rebuttal arguments; and

WHEREAS, it is desirable that the election be consolidated with the statewide election to be held on the same date and that within the
City, the precincts, polling places and election officers of the two elections be the same, and that the County Elections Department of the
County of El Dorado canvass the returns of the election and that the election be held in all respects as if there were only one election;

The People and the City Council of the City of Placerville do ordain as follows:

Section 1:	Title V of the City Code shall be amended to add a new Chapter 27, entitled “City of Placerville Special Transactions and Use Tax

Ordinance for Water, Sewer, Storm Drain and Streets Facilities,” to read as follows:

“5-27-1:	TITLE:	This ordinance shall be known as the City of Placerville Special Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance for Water, Sewer, Storm

Drain and Streets Facilities. The City of Placerville hereinafter shall be called "City." This ordinance shall be applicable in the incorporated territory of
the City.

5-27-2:	OPERATIVE	DATE:	"Operative	Date"	means the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing more than 110 days after the

adoption of this ordinance, the date of such adoption being as set forth below.

5-27-3:	PURPOSE:	This	ordinance	is	adopted	to achieve the following, among other purposes, and directs that the provisions hereof be

interpreted in order to accomplish those purposes:

(A)	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code and Section 7285.91 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 which authorizes the City to adopt this tax ordinance which shall be
operative if a two-thirds majority of the electors voting on the measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax at an election called for that
purpose.

(B)	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates provisions identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of
California insofar as those provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code.

(C)	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax and provides a measure therefore that can be administered and
collected by the State Board of Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and requires the least possible deviation
from, the existing statutory and administrative procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization in administering and collecting the
California State Sales and Use Taxes.

(D)	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be administered in a manner that will, to the greatest degree possible, be
consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting the transactions and
use taxes, and at the same time, minimize the burden of recordkeeping upon persons subject to taxation under the provisions of this ordinance.

- CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE -

09-901

5-27-4:	CONTRACT	WITH	STATE:	Prior	to	the	operative	date,	the	City	shall	contract with the State Board of Equalization to perform all

functions incident to the administration and operation of this transactions and use tax ordinance; provided, that if the City shall not have contracted
with the State Board of Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract and in such a case the operative date shall be the
first day of the first calendar quarter following the execution of such a contract.

5-27-5:	TRANSACTIONS	TAX	RATE:	For	the	privilege	of	selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in

the incorporated territory of the City at the rate of one-half of one percent (0.5%) of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible
personal property sold at retail in said territory on and after the operative date of this ordinance.

5-27-6:	PLACE OF SALE: For the purposes of this ordinance, all retail sales are consummated at the place of business of the retailer unless the

tangible personal property sold is delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for delivery to an out-of-
state destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery charges, when such charges are subject to the state sales and use tax,
regardless of the place to which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the state or has more than one place
of business, the place or places at which the retail sales are consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations to be prescribed and
adopted by the State Board of Equalization.

5-27-7:	USE TAX RATE: An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other consumption in the City of tangible personal property

purchased from any retailer on and after the operative date of this ordinance for storage, use or other consumption in said territory at the rate of one-
half of one percent (0.5%) of the sales price of the property. The sales price shall include delivery charges when such charges are subject to state
sales or use tax regardless of the place to which delivery is made.

5-27-8:	ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW: Except as otherwise provided in this ordinance and except insofar as they are

inconsistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing with Section
6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a part of this ordinance as though fully set forth herein.

5-27-9:	LIMITATIONS	ON ADOPTION OF STATE LAW AND COLLECTION OF USE TAXES: In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2

of the Revenue and Taxation Code:

(A)	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the name of this City shall be substituted therefore. However, the
substitution shall not be made when:

1.	The word "State" is used as a part of the title of the State Controller, State Treasurer, Victim Compensations and Government Claims
Board, State Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or the Constitution of the State of California;

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against this City or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than
by or against the State Board of Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the administration or operation of this ordinance.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to, sections referring to the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the
result of the substitution would be to:

(a)	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property which
would not otherwise be exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other consumption remain subject to tax by the State
under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code; or

(b)	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property which would not be
subject to tax by the state under the said provision of that code.

4.	In Sections 6701,6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711,6715, 6737, 6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

(B)	The word "City" shall be substituted for the word "State" in the phrase "retailer engaged in business in this State" in Section 6203 and in the
definition of that phrase in Section 6203.

5-27-10:	PERMIT NOT REQUIRED: If a seller's permit has been issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an

additional transactor's permit shall not be required by this ordinance.

5-27-11:	EXEMPTIONS	AND EXCLUSIONS:

(A)	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the use tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State
of California or by any city, city and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the amount of
any state-administered transactions or use tax.

(B)	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax the gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum products, to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally
outside the county in which the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or
property under the authority of the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the City which is shipped to a point outside the City, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to
such point by the retailer or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at such point. For the purposes
of this paragraph, delivery to a point outside the City shall be satisfied:

(a)	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000)
of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and undocumented
vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration to an out-of-City address
and by a declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that such address is, in fact, his or her principal place of
residence; and

(b)	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of business out-of-City and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed
by the buyer, that the vehicle will be operated from that address.

- CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE -

09-902

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to furnish the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into
prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to
lease the property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, the sale or lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be
obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to
terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

(C)	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this ordinance, the storage, use or other consumption in this City of tangible personal
property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a transactions tax under any state-administered transactions and use
tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of aircraft and used or consumed by such operators directly and
exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under a certificate of public
convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign government. This exemption is
in addition to the exemptions provided in Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of
this ordinance.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the tangible personal property arises under a lease which is a
continuing purchase of such property for any period of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed
by a lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, storage, use, or other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any
right or power over, tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of
time for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or
not such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in business in the City shall not be required to collect use tax from the
purchaser of tangible personal property, unless the retailer ships or delivers the property into the City or participates within the City in
making the sale of the property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving the order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of
business of the retailer in the City or through any representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the City under the
authority of the retailer.

7.	"A retailer engaged in business in the City" shall also include any retailer of any of the following: vehicles subject to registration
pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section
21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the
Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to collect use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or
aircraft at an address in the City.

(D)	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit against that tax any transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid
to a district imposing, or retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code with respect to
the sale to the person of the property the storage, use or other consumption of which is subject to the use tax.

5-27-12:	AMENDMENTS:	All	amendments	subsequent	to	the	effective date of this ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation

Code relating to sales and use taxes and which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and
all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part of this ordinance,
provided however, that no such amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this ordinance.

5-27-13:	ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN: No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit,

action or proceeding in any court against the State or the City, or against any officer of the State or the City, to prevent or enjoin the collection under
this ordinance, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.

5-27-14:	CITIZENS OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE: There shall be a five-person committee of members of the public to review and report on the

revenue and expenditure of funds from the tax adopted by this Chapter. Prior to the operative date, the City Council shall adopt a resolution
establishing the composition of the committee and defining the scope of its responsibilities. Also prior to the operative date, the City Council shall
appoint at least a quorum of the members of the committee; the Council shall complete the appointment of members of the committee by the end of
fiscal year 2017.

5-27-15:	EXPENDITURE	PLAN:	The	expenditure	plan	required	by Revenue and Taxation Code Section 7285.91(c) for the revenue from the tax

approved by this Chapter is the following: The City may use revenue from the tax only to pay for repair, replacement, maintenance, and
improvement of Water, Sewer and Storm Drain systems, and for the repair, replacement, maintenance, and improvement of existing Streets.

5-27-16:	TERMINATION	DATE:	The	authority	to	levy	the	tax	imposed by this ordinance shall expire on the twentieth anniversary of the last day of

the calendar quarter following the operative date.”

- CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE -

09-903

Section 2:	ENVIRONMENTAL	COMPLIANCE:	The	findings	for	this	ordinance, in compliance with the California Environmental Quality

Act (“CEQA”), are the same as those set forth in the City’s Resolution No.______calling	for an election on this ordinance. The CEQA

findings in Resolution No._______are incorporated herein by reference.

Section 3:	SEVERABILITY: If any provision of this ordinance or the application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid,

the remainder of the ordinance and the application of such provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

Section 4:	EFFECTIVE	DATE:	This ordinance relates to the levying and collecting of the City’s transactions and use taxes and shall

take effect immediately.

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE L

The City Council of the City of Placerville has placed Measure L on the November 8, 2016, ballot to ask voters to approve an ordinance that
would enact a temporary one-half of one percent (0.50%) transactions and use tax within the City. If approved, the tax would add a half cent to
the price of an item that costs a dollar, or $0.50 to the price of an item that costs $100.

The existing “sales tax” is a combination of “sales and use tax” and “transactions and use tax.” With some exceptions, both are levied on the
sale or use of tangible personal property sold at retail.

Currently, the tax on retail sales in Placerville is 8.0% of the purchase price of an item. Placerville’s current sales tax rate includes the quarter
cent increase in the state sales tax rate adopted by the state electorate in November, 2012. The November, 2012, quarter cent increase is set
to expire on December 31,2016.

However, on the November, 2016, statewide ballot is Proposition 30 which, if adopted, will extend the one-quarter of one percent increase
enacted in November, 2012, for another four (4) years. Thus, if Proposition 30 and Measure L both pass, the sales tax rate in the City of
Placerville would be 8.5%.

If Proposition 30 does not pass and Measure L passes, the sales tax rate in the City would be 8.25%.

If Measure L does not pass and Proposition 30 passes, the sales tax rate in the City would remain at 8.0%.

If Measure L passes and Proposition 30 does not pass, the sales tax rate would be 8.25%, and if neither Measure L nor Proposition 30 pass,
the sales tax rate would reduce to 7.75%.

Measure L contains an expenditure plan which requires that the revenue from the tax may only be used to pay for repair, replacement,
maintenance, and improvement of City water, sewer and storm drain systems, and for the repair, replacement, maintenance, and improvement
of existing streets in the City.

Measure L also requires that the City Council appoint a five-person committee made up of members of the public to review and report on the
revenue and expenditure of funds from the tax.

If adopted, the tax would become effective April 1, 2017, and would automatically terminate twenty years after collection begins, unless
extended by the voters.

A “Yes” vote is a vote to approve the enactment of the half-cent tax for 20 years. A “No” vote is a vote against the tax. Measure L will be
approved if it receives a two-thirds (2/3) majority of “Yes” votes.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure L. If you desire a copy of the ordinance or measure, please call the Placerville City
Clerk at 530-642-5531 and a copy will be mailed to you at no cost.

John Driscoll, City Attorney City of Placerville

09-904

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE L

PLACERVILLE IS IN A CRISIS: City roads are falling apart. Our water
and sewer pipes are leaking. Placerville is $45.5 Million behind in
critical road and sewer/water repairs, and Measure L can change that!
This V-z 0 specific sales tax will provide the additional $2 million we
need each year to stop the immediate deterioration and start
improving our roads and pipes.

IF YOU APPROVE MEASURE L

• ALL of the money will pay for the repair/maintenance of
Placerville’s roads and Placerville’s sewer/water systems.

•	The money cannot be diverted for any other purpose.

•	The money will only be used inside the Placerville city limits.

• The money cannot be used to build new roads for new
development!

•	This measure will end in 20 years.

•	A citizen oversight committee will make sure the money is used
according to these purposes.

IF YOU DON’T APPROVE MEASURE L

•	In 10 years, the average condition of Placerville roads will be failed.

•	We will continue to lose 25% of our water.

•	Sewer spills will continue to trigger costly State and Federal fines.

•	Emergency repairs will be significantly more expensive when public
health or the environment is threatened.

•	There will be NO money for road repair or replacement.

MEASURE L CAN FIX OUR ROADS AND PIPES and will spread the
cost of repair fairly for EVERYONE that uses Placerville’s
infrastructure. If we don’t pass this sales tax, YOU, as a Placerville
Resident, will have to pay 100% of the repairs and maintenance costs!

MEASURE L REQUIRES A 2/3 VOTE TO PASS. Please VOTE YES
to fix Placerville’s Roads and Pipes.

For more information visit www.FixPlacervilleRoads.com.

Trisha Wilkins, Mayor, City of Placerville
Sue Rodman, Retired Forest Service
Jackie Neau, Community Activist
Earl R. Washburn, MD, retired pediatrician
John Mosbacher, Placerville Business Owner

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE L

The Placerville City Council sought a sales tax hike two years ago,
and voters said NO. They are back to seek more taxes, again.

The real problem; the City’s spends too much money and fails to
make substantial spending cuts. They should learn to do what we all
have to do in our lives, spend within our means.

Placerville, for example, battled voters for eight years to build a
roundabout at Cedar Ravine and Main Street that we did not want,
need or could afford. They wasted OUR money doing that. The City
Council spends about $100,000 a year on health insurance plans for
themselves. Despite public wishes, they fought for redevelopment,
spending nearly a half million of our tax money on that boondoggle.
The list goes on.

Raising sales taxes will put local businesses at a disadvantage with
competitors outside the city. And it will cause this economic pain for
20 years! Businesses have been slowly recovering from the worst
economic downturn since the great depression. Send a message, let
local tax and spend politicians know we want a cutback in spending.
Vote No on Measure L.

Vote NO on Measure L Committee

Ben Leveroni, Merchant
Dottie McKenzie, Merchant
Kirk McKenzie, Merchant
Paula Gendron, Merchant
Sierra Hauser, Merchant

09-905

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE L

Arguments made now for Measure L were used two years ago when
the same big spenders pushed another tax hike. The city wasted
nearly $14,000 of your taxes for a public opinion poll used to market
that tax scheme and nearly 2/3rds polled said they’d back it. But by
the time all votes were in, voters said NO.

The city used scare stories and bogus claims to push for state plans to
close our historic courthouse and build a $90,000 million judicial
center at the west end that would cost local tax dollars for needed
infrastructure. $3million of your tax dollars has been budgeted just to
build the driveway for that boondoggle.

Why should they be believed now? Just refinancing the mortgage on
city hall alone will generate approximately $200,000. Council
members did not tell you about their gold plated insurance plans
costing us $100,000 a year, did they?

Measure L proponents falsely claim this increase “will spread the cost
fairly” for road repairs. Not true! It imposes an oppressively
anticompetitive burden on local small businesses already hit hard by
recession. Shoppers would be able to cross the city limits and pay a
lower sales tax. And for 20 years!

One signer of the yes arguments told a public meeting that views of
local merchants don’t count because “most of them don’t live in the
city.” Measure L is anti-small business and encourages more wasteful
spending.

Send tax and spend politicians a message. Vote NO on Measure L.

Vote NO on Measure L Committee

Pat Washington, Merchant
Laura Whittaker, Merchant
Paula Gendron, Merchant
Mark Gendron, Merchant
Kirk Smith, Property Manager

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE L

Empty slogans about “spending within our means” won’t fix roads and
pipes! There isn’t enough money in the City’s budget to fund OVER
$45 MILLION for critical repairs to Placerville’s crumbling roads and
failing water and sewer pipes.

Here’s what opponents don’t tell you:

•	They have NO PLAN to fix Placerville’s roads and pipes.

•	Measure L is THE PLAN to provide $2 million/year that can
ONLY be spent to fix roads, sewers, and water pipes in the city
limits.

•	YES on Measure L will cost about $66 per year per household.

•	NO on Measure L will cost about $287 per household per year in
water/sewer rate increases with no money for road repairs.

•	70% of people coming into Placerville every day don’t live here!
A sales tax is the ONLY way for them to contribute to
Placerville’s road maintenance.

•	Over 75% of Placerville’s roads have FAILED or are AT RISK!

•	Has a tourist ever decided not to buy something because of the
sales tax? Measure L sales tax rate will still be comparable:
Placerville 8.5 Rancho Cordova and Sacramento 8.5 Folsom 8.0

•	Measure I lost by 9 votes in 2014. It was a General Tax that
could be used for any purpose.

•	The City listened to residents’ input and proposed the Measure L
SPECIFIC Tax which, by law, can only fix our roads and pipes!

We are Placerville residents concerned about preserving and
improving our historic town. Join your neighbors; vote YES on
Measure L.

Dennis Thomas, Downtown Merchant
Kathi Lishman, Retired Teacher
David Zelinsky, Community Volunteer
Ben Carter, Restaurant Owner
Thomas D. Cumpston, Local Attorney

09-906

HELPFUL HINTS TO MAKE ELECTION DAY EASIER

TIPS FOR PRECINCT VOTERS:

Precinct officers are citizens like you. They sincerely want to make voting easy while protecting against
voter fraud. Here are some ideas for you to make Election Day easier for all.

>	Polling Place locations may change at each election. Your polling place is listed on your voter
information card.

>	If you are not planning on voting by mail, check to make sure you know where your polling place is
located. If you are not sure how to find your polling place, check a map or call (530) 621-7480.

>	Go to the polls prepared. Read and mark your sample ballot prior to Election Day and take it with
you to refer to while you are in the voting booth. This is especially helpful with a lengthy ballot.

>	If you are a first time voter, be prepared to show identification.

TIPS FOR VOTE BY MAIL VOTERS

With all the convenience of voting by mail, there is always the possibility of having problems with your
ballot. Common problems with the vote by mail process include:

>	Not signing the ballot envelope

>	Signing the envelope with a scribble instead of your signature used when registering to vote

>	Signing both yours and a family members envelope

These common problems can be largely avoided by remembering to take one quick look over the
envelopes before mailing or dropping them off, to ensure they are all signed next to the red “X”, and signed
by the right person.

If you are concerned that your signature has changed, drop off your ballot in person and fill out a voter
registration card at the same time, to ensure your most recent signature is on file.

PROVISIONAL VOTING AT THE POLLING PLACE

California has a provisional voting process to handle voters whose eligibility to vote cannot be determined
at the polling place. The precinct officer will provide the voter a provisional ballot and written instructions
regarding the process. After voting and securing the ballot in the provisional ballot envelope the voter will
be handed the Voter Receipt from the back of the Provisional Envelope. After the election, the voter may
use the receipt to call the El Dorado County Elections Office at (800) 730-4322 to find out whether their
provisional ballot was counted, and if not, why.

Reasons for provisional voting:

>	The voter’s name is not listed on the Voter Roster List at the precinct.

>	The voter has moved within the county but did not re-register to vote.

>	The voter who’s name is listed on the Voter Roster List as receiving an Absentee Ballot but, for
whatever reason, is unable to surrender it.

>	The Voter is listed on the Voter Roster List and is required to show proof of identification for being a
First Time Federal Election Voter but is unable to show proof.

F-01

YOUR VOTE IS IMPORTANT!
YOUR VOTE COUNTS!
EXERCISE YOUR VOTE!

WHETHER YOU CAST YOUR VOTE AT
THE POLLS OR BY MAIL, YOUR VOTE
WILL BE COUNTED. You are invited to
the Election Department office at 2850
Fairlane Court, Placerville, to view the
entire election process. A large public
viewing area is available to you on election
day and night. You are also welcome to
ask for a short tour of the election office at
any time during working hours. Election
officials are dedicated to ensuring that
every vote counts and that all elections are
transparent and secure.

EVERY VOTE
COUNTS!

F-02