RESOLUTION

No

OF THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS OF THE COUNTY OF NEVADA

RESOLUTION CALLING AN ELECTION FOR, AND
AUTHORIZING THE SUBMISSION TO THE VOTERS OF A
MEASURE TO CONTINUE THE NEVADA COUNTY LIBRARY
SALES TAX FOR AN ADDITIONAL 15 YEARS AND TO ADJUST
THE TAX RATE FROM ONE-EIGHTH (1/8) OF ONE CENT TO
ONE-QUARTER (1/4) OF ONE CENT, AND CONSOLIDATING
THE ELECTION WITH THE NOVEMBER 8, 2016, STATEWIDE
GENERAL ELECTION (4/5 AFFIRMATIVE VOTE REQUIRED)

WHEREAS, Revenue and Taxation Code section 7286.59 authorizes the County, with
voter approval, to establish a special tax to support Library services; and

WHEREAS, in 1998, the voters approved a special l/8lh cent sales tax for a period of 5
years, and in 2002 the voters approved an extension of the sales tax for 15 years which is set to
expire in September 2018; ana

WHEREAS, the Nevada County Library relies on limited County funding, special taxes
and donations to fund services for all County residents; and

WHEREAS, expenses have outpaced revenues in recent years, making it difficult for the
Nevada County Library to maintain or improve services and the Library is at risk of decreasing
Library service hours; and

WHEREAS, on May 19, 2016, the Library Committee, composed of community members
representing a wide range of interest groups in Nevada County, voted to recommend that the
Board of Supervisors submit a proposal to further extend and to adjust the Library Sales Tax to
the voters of the County of Nevada for consideration at the statewide general election on
November 8, 2016; and

WHEREAS, on June 28, 2016, the Information and General Services Agency Director and
the County Librarian joined with the Library Committee to recommend that the Board of
Supervisors submit a proposal to further extend and to adjust the Library Sales Tax to the voters
of the County of Nevada for consideration at the statewide general election on November 8, 2016;
and

WHEREAS, the proposed measure would (a) extend the Library Transactions and Use Tax
for an additional 15 years; (b) adjust the maximum tax rate from l/8lh cent to l/4th cent; (c) revise
the existing Expenditure Plan to guide the use of the funds generated by the proposed tax; and (d)
make other amendments to Article 7 of the Nevada County General Code consistent with this
proposal and current state law; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Supervisors desires to submit the ballot measure to the voters at
the next regularly scheduled County and Statewide General Election on November 8, 2016; and

WHEREAS, consolidating an election on the measure with the November 8, 2016, County
and Statewide General Election significantly reduces the cost to taxpayers for conducting an
election while providing for the highest level of voter participation in the election process.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Nevada County Board of Supervisors

1.	The foregoing recitals are adopted as findings of the Board of Supervisors as though set
forth fully herein.

2.	The Board of Supervisors hereby calls an election to be held and conducted in and for
the County of Nevada on Tuesday, November 8, 2016, for the purpose of submitting
the Ordinance to the voters of Nevada County, and further orders that the election be
consolidated with the County and Statewide General Election to be held on November
8, 2016.

3.	Pursuant to Elections Code section 9140 and Government Code section 53724, the
Board of Supervisors hereby submits to the voters of the County of Nevada, the
following Measure:

COUNTY OF NEVADA MEASURE A

To maintain, restore and enhance library services including:

•	Providing children/teen services, such as homework help, computer classes,
and school outreach;

•	Enhancing senior/disabled services;

•	Maintaining/restoring Library hours at all branches;

•	Keeping materials and services current,

shall an ordinance be adopted extending the existing voter-approved sales tax
at the adjusted rate of % cent, raising approximately $4 million annually, for
15 years, with citizen oversight, and requiring that all funds benefit Nevada
County libraries?

Yes

No

4.	The Measure shall pass only if two-thirds (2/3lds) of the votes cast by the voters voting
on the Measure are "yes" votes. In the event two-thirds (2/3™) of the electors voting
on the Measure vote in favor thereof, the Nevada County General Code shall be
amended to read as set forth in Exhibit "A" attached hereto and incorporated herein
and, pursuant to Elections Code section 9122 and Government Code section 25123(c),
shall become effective ten (10) days after the date the vote is declared by the Board of
Supervisors.

5.	The Nevada County Registrar of Voters is hereby directed to prepare and conduct all
functions for the Election and canvass the returns of the election as set forth in the
Elections Code, and to do all things required by law to present the proposed Measure
to the electorate, including but not limited to, preparing and publishing all required
postings, notices and filings.

6.	The full text of the proposed Measure shall be as set forth in Exhibit "A" attached
hereto and made a part hereof. The Nevada County Registrar of Voters is hereby
directed to print the full text of the Measure in the voter information pamphlet mailed to
all voters in the County of Nevada.

7.	Pursuant to Elections Code section 9160(b), the Board of Supervisors hereby directs
the County Counsel to prepare an impartial analysis of the proposed Measure.

8.	Pursuant to Elections Code section 9160(c), the Board of Supervisors hereby directs
the County Auditor-Controller to prepare a fiscal analysis of the proposed Measure.

9.	Arguments for and against the Measure may be filed and published consistent with
Elections Code section 9162, et seq.

10.	The Clerk of the Board is hereby directed to submit a certified copy of this Resolution
to the Registrar of Voters for the County of Nevada within five (5) business days after
its adoption.

11.	The Board of Supervisors hereby finds and determines that approval of this Resolution
is not a project subject to the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) pursuant
to Sections 15060(c)(3) and 15378 because the ballot measure involves a government
funding mechanism and related fiscal activities, which does not involve a commitment
to a specific project.

PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Board of Supervisors of the County of Nevada at a regular meeting of
said Board, held on the 28th day of June, 2016, by the following vote of said Board:

Ayes:	Supervisors Nathan H. Beason, Edward Scofield, Dan Miller,

Hank Weston and Richard Anderson.

Noes:	None.

Absent:	None.

Abstain:	None.

ATTEST:

JULIE PATTERSON HUNTER
Clerk of the Board of Supervisors

6/28/2016 cc:

Library*

AC*

Regisrar(l)

Idler, Chair

The foregoing instrument is a correct
copy of the original on file in this office.

Was> \ U -

ATTEST: .Wm

Julie Patterson Hunter, Clerk of the Board
County of Nevada .; j
BY:_______________

EXHIBIT A

FULL TEXT OF BALLOT MEASURE
ARTICLE 7. LIBRARY TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX

Sec. G-V 7.1 Title

This Article shall be known as the Nevada County Public Library Transactions and Use Tax
Article of the County of Nevada. The transactions and use tax provisions of this Article shall be
applicable in the incorporated and unincorporated territory of Nevada County.

Sec. G-V 7.2 Purpose of Article

The Board of Supervisors of the County of Nevada hereby declares that this Article is adopted
to achieve the following, among other, purposes and directs that its provisions be interpreted to
accomplish those purposes:

A.	To adopt a one-quarter of 1 percent (0.25%) retail transactions and use tax pursuant to
the provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with section 7251) and Part 1.7 (commencing
with section 7280) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and as specifically
authorized by section 7286,59 of the Revenue and Taxation Code;

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax article which incorporates provisions identical
to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California insofar as those
provisions are consistent with the requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6 and
Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code;

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax article which imposes a tax and provides a
measure for it that the Board of Equalization can administer and collect in a manner that
adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and requires the least possible deviation from, the
existing statutory and administrative procedures followed by the State Board of
Equalization in administering and collecting the California Sales and Use Taxes;

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax article which can be administered in a manner
which will be, to the greatest degree possible, consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6
and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, reduce the cost of
collecting the transactions and use taxes and simultaneously reduce the burden of record
keeping upon persons subject to taxation under the provisions of this Article;

E.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax article that provides for funding public library
acquisition, programs and operations within Nevada County.

Sec. G-V 7.3 Use of the Tax: Annual Report

A.	All revenues from the tax shall be deposited into a special fund and used exclusively to
fund projects and purposes described in the Expenditure Plan set forth in Section G-V
7.4. Such revenues shall be used only to supplement existing Library funding, and shall
not be used to supplant existing funding for the support of County library services.

B.	Pursuant to Government Code sections 50075.1, et seq., the County’s Chief Fiscal
Officer shall file a report annually with the Board of Supervisors regarding the amount of
tax revenue collected and expended, and the status of any project funded by the tax
revenue pursuant to the Expenditure Plan.

Sec. G-V 7.4 Expenditure Plan

The Expenditure Plan is designed to provide and continue to improve library services by
accomplishing the specific projects listed below with the revenues from the transactions and use
tax generated over the voter-approved period. The expenditure plan preserves the existing
libraries, enhances services and collections at the libraries, and extends branch library services
to the served and unserved areas of the County. An annual expenditure plan for the use of
funds allocated to library services shall be reviewed and adopted by the Board of Supervisors
prior to July 1 of each year.

The specific projects for which the revenues from the transactions and use tax shall be
expended are contingent upon total revenue received and allocated as follows:

A.	OPEN HOURS: Extend hours at Library locations in response to needs and desires of
Library users.

B.	PROGRAMS AND SERVICES FOR CHILDREN AND TEENS: Increase children’s
services at ail age levels and at all circulating library branches, including for the Summer
Reading Program. Provide after school programs, homework help, and reference
services for students at circulating branches in response to needs and desires of Library
users.

C.	LIBRARY MATERIALS; Increase books and other materials for all ages and replace
worn and out-of-date items at all library locations. Continue to include a variety of
formats, such as DVDs, audiobooks, eBooks, and online resources.

D.	INFORMATION AND TECHNOLOGY ACCESS: Provide current information services
and products in libraries and for remote access. Keep apace with changing and
emerging technologies. Increase and improve public access to computers, high-speed
broadband, and other technologies such as 3D printers, tablets, video conferencing,
software, etc. Provide technology and digital literacy based educational classes for ail
ages.

E.	SERVICES FOR SENIORS AND LIBRARY USERS WITH DISABILITIES: Improve the
accessibility of library locations, services, and materials for seniors and library users with
disabilities. Offer a variety of library materials and services in order to be inclusive of the
needs of all library users.

F.	LIBRARY SERVICE LOCATIONS: Establish, move or add library service locations in
areas where the demand for services and cost effectiveness is warranted. Improve and
enhance current service locations to meet community needs and the objectives listed in
this expenditure plan.

G.	CITIZENS OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE: A Citizens Oversight Committee will be
appointed by the Board of Supervisors consisting of members of the public interested in
the continued operation of the public libraries. The purpose of the Committee will be to
ensure that the proceeds of the library sales tax are appropriated in accordance with the
Expenditure Plan set forth in this Section. Such Committee shall serve without
compensation.

H.	The County Librarian will meet with representatives of the County’s Eastern and Western
Friends of the Library organizations to develop and propose an equitable and fair fiscal
plan for the operation of the libraries and the proceeds of the tax.

Sec. G-V 7.5 Contract with State

Before the Operative Date, the County of Nevada will contract with the State Board of
Equalization to perform all functions incident to the administration and operation of this Article;
provided, that if the Nevada County Library has not contracted with the State Board of
Equalization before the Operative Date, it will nevertheless reach an agreement, with the
operative date to be the first day of the first calendar quarter following the execution of the
contract.

Sec. G-V 7.6 Transactions Tax Rate

For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax is imposed upon all retailers
in the incorporated and unincorporated territory of the County at the rate of one-quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible personal
property sold at retail in the territory on and after the Operative Date.

Sec. G-V 7.7 Place of Sale

For the purposes of this Article, all retail sales are consummated at the place of business of the
retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is delivered by the retailer or his or her agent
to an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination.
The gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery charges, when such charges are
subject to the state sales and use tax, despite the place to which delivery is made. In the event
a retailer has no permanent place of business, the place or places at which the retail sales are
consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by
the State Board of Equalization.

Sec. G-V 7.8 Use Tax Rate

An excise tax is imposed on the storage, use or other consumption in the County of tangible
personal property purchased from any retailer on and after the operative date of this Article for
storage, use or other consumption in the territory at the rate of one-quarter of 1 percent (0.25%)
of the sales price of the property. The sales price shall include delivery charges when such
charges are subject to state sales or use tax despite the place to which delivery is made.

Sec. G-V 7.9 Adoptions of Provisions of State Law

Except as otherwise provided in this Article and to the extent that they are inconsistent with the
provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the provisions of
Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are
adopted and incorporated by this reference.

Sec. G-V 7.10 Limitations on Adoption of State Law and Collection of Use Taxes

A. In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code,

wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing authority, the name
of this County shall be substituted for it. However, the substitution shall not be made
when:

1.	The word "State" is used as a part of the title of the State Controller, State
Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or
the Constitution of the State of California.

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against this
County or any agency, officer, or employee of it rather than by or against the State
Board of Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the administration or
operation of this Article.

3.	(n those sections, inducting, but not necessarily limited to, sections referring to the
exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the substitution would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales, storage,
use or other consumption of tangible personal property which would not
otherwise be exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other
consumption remain subject to tax by the State under the provisions of Part
I of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other
consumption of tangible personal property which would not be subject to tax
by the State under the provisions of that code.

4.	In sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence), 6711,6715, 6737, 6797 or
6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

B. The word "County" will be substituted for the word "State" in the phrase "retailer engaged
in business in this State" in Revenue and Taxation Code section 6203 and in the
definition of that phrase in Revenue and Taxation Code section 6203.

Sec. G-V 7.11 Permit Not Required

If a seller's permit has been issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, this Article shall not require an additional transactor's permit.

Sec. G-V 7.12 Exemptions and Exclusions

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the use tax the
amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or by any city, city
and county or county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax
Law of the amount of any state administered transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax the gross
receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property other than fuel or petroleum products to
operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the County in
which the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as
common carriers of persons or property under the authority of the laws of
California, the United States, or any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the County which is shipped to a point
outside the County, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by
the retailer or his or her agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for
shipment to a consignee at such point. For the purposes of this subsection,
delivery to a point outside the County will be satisfied:

a.	With respect to vehicles, other than commercial vehicles subject to
registration under Chapter I (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3
of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed according to Section 21411 of the
Public Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels registered under Chapter
2 of Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code, by
registration to an out-of-County address and by a declaration under penalty
of perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that such address is, in fact, his or
her principal place of residence; and

b.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of business
out-of-County and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer,
stating that the vehicle will be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to furnish the
property for a fixed price under a contract entered into before the Operative Date.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such property,
for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the property for an
amount fixed by the lease before the Operative Date.

5.	For the purposes of subsections B.3 and B.4 of this section, the sale or lease of
tangible personal property will be deemed not to be obligated under a contract or
lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the
unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not
such right is exercised.

There is exempted from the use tax imposed by this Article, the storage, use or other

consumption in this County of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a transactions tax
under any state administered transactions and use tax ordinance;

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of aircraft and used
or consumed by such operations directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft
as common carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under a
certificate of public convenience and necessity issued under the laws of California,
the United States or any foreign government. This exemption is in addition to the
exemptions provided in sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code;

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price under a
contract entered into before the Operative Date;

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the tangible
personal property arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such
property for any period of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the
property for an amount fixed by a lease before the Operative Date;

5.	For the purposes of subsections C.3 and C.4 of this section, storage, use, or other
consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power over, tangible
personal property will be deemed not to be obligated under a contract or lease for
any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the
unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not
such right is exercised;

6.	Except as provided for in subsection C.7 of this section, a retailer engaged in
business in the County will not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of
tangible personal property, unless the retailer ships or delivers the property into
the County or participates within the County in making the sale of the property,
including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving the order, either directly or
indirectly, at a place of business of the canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person
in the County under the authority of the retailer;

7.	"A retailer engaged in business in the County" will also include any retailer of the
following: vehicles subject to registration under Chapter 1 (commencing with
Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed according to
section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels registered
under Chapter 2 of Division 3.5 (commencing with section 9840) of the Vehicle
Code. This retailer shall be required to collect use tax from any purchaser who
registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel or aircraft at an address in the County.

£>. Any person subject to use tax under this Article may credit against that tax any

transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a County imposing, or a
retailer liable for a transactions tax under Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code with respect to the sale to the person of the property, the storage, use or
other consumption of which is subject to the use tax.

Sec. G-V 7.13 Amendment

All amendments after the Operative Date to Part I of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code relating to sale and use taxes which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, will automatically become a part of this Article;
provided however, that no such amendment will operate to affect the rate of tax imposed by this
Article.

Sec. G-V 7.14 Enjoining Collection Forbidden

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process will issue in any suit, action
or proceeding in any court against the State of California or the County, or against any officer of
the State of California or the County, to prevent or enjoin the collection under this Article, or Part
1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to
be collected.

Sec G-V 7.15 Use of the Taxes

Any and all transactions and use taxes shall be used exclusively for County-wide library
programs and operations as such is set forth in the Expenditure Plan established by section G-V
7.4.

Sec. G-V 7.16 Implementing Policies and Regulations

Upon approval of this Article, or any amendments thereto, by two-thirds of the voters, the public
libraries within Nevada County may adopt policies and regulations and take such other action as
may be necessary for the implementation of the transactions and use tax authorized by this
Article.

Sec. G-V 7.17 Effective and Operative Dates

A.	This Article shall relate to the levying and collecting of a County transactions and use tax
and shall take effect as provided by law. This Article shall take effect according to law
only if at least two-thirds of the electors voting on the measure at the June 2, 1998,
election approve the enactment of the Article. If approved, the provisions of this Article
authorizing the levy of the one-eighth of 1 percent (0.125%) transactions and use tax will
become operative on October 1, 1998.

B.	The amendment to this Article shall take effect according to law only if at least two-thirds
of the electors voting on the measure at the November 5, 2002, election approve the
amendment to Section G-V 7.17. If approved, the amendment of this Article authorizing
the continuation of the one-eight of 1 percent (0.125%) transactions and use tax through
September 30, 2018, shall become effective immediately.

C.	The 2016 amendment to this Article shall take effect according to law only if at least
thirds of the electors voting on the measure at the November 8, 2016, election approve
the proposed Ordinance adjusting the tax rate to one-quarter of 1 percent (0.25%) and
extending the tax for an additional 15 years. If approved by the voters, the adjusted tax
rate will replace and supersede the existing tax rate as of the Operative Date.

D.	The “Operative Date” means the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing more
than 110 days after the election approving the imposition of the tax imposed by this
Article, such election to be held on November 8, 2016.

Sec. G-V 7.18 Termination Date

This Article shall expire fifteen (15) years from the Operative Date.

Sec. G-V 7.19 Severability

If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this Article or the application thereof to
any person or circumstances is, for any reason, held to be invalid or unenforceable, then such
portion shall be deemed to be a separate, distinct, and independent provision and such invalidity
shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions thereof, or the application of such provision
to other persons or circumstances.

Sec. G-V 7.20 Actions to Determine Validity of Ordinance. Tax or Related Proceedings

Any action or proceeding wherein the validity of the adoption of the retail transactions and use
tax ordinance provided for in this Article, or any amendments hereto, or any of the proceedings
in relation thereto is contested, questioned, or denied, shall be commenced pursuant to Chapter
9 (commencing with section 860) of Title 10 of Part 2 of the Code of Civil Procedure. Otherwise,
the tax, and all proceedings in relation thereto, including the adoption and approval of this Article
by ordinance, shall be held to be valid and in every respect legal and uncontestable.

Measure A - Increase and Extend Library Sales Tax

The following fiscal impact of Measure A was provided by Nevada County Auditor-Controller

In June of 1998, the voters of Nevada County approved a 1 /8th cent library sales tax. The library
sales tax was extended by the voters for an additional 15 years beginning in October 2003. The
current extension will end September 30, 2018.

The library sales tax is the primary funding source of the Nevada County Library and accounts for
over sixty percent of the library system revenue. The current sales tax measure has generated,
on average, $1.58 million per year over the past 14 years to fund the operations and programs of
the Library. This annual amount is subject to the fluctuations of the local economy and ranged
from a fiscal year low of $1.28 million to a high of $1.88 million. Other revenue sources for the
Library include patron donations, various grants and an annual required allocation from the
County’s General Fund. The expenditures of the County Library operations supported by the
existing sales tax measure have been made in accordance with the Expenditure Plan as outlined
in the County General Code: Section G-V Article 7. - Library Transaction and Use Tax.

The proposed Measure A - County Library Sales Tax - would increase the sales tax rate to 1/4th
cent and generate an estimated average annual revenue stream of $4.2 million over the extended
15 year period from the establishing date. The amount of revenue may increase or decrease
each year over the fifteen year period due to inflation, general economic conditions, population
growth, or other factors. The expenditures of the County Library operations supported by this
sales tax measure are to be made in accordance to the Expenditure Plan as outlined in the
measure.

In accordance with the Elections Code, the scope of this fiscal impact statement has been limited
to the measure’s effect on revenues and expenditures.

Nevada County Clerk

AUG 1 2

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS
Measure A

State law authorizes a county board of supervisors to propose a special countywide transactions
and use tax ("sales tax") for public library programs, operations and facilities within the county.
In June 1998, the Nevada County Board of Supervisors (“Board”) proposed, and the voters
approved, a special library sales tax at the rate of 0.125% for 15 years. In November 2002, the
Board proposed, and the voters approved, a continuation of the 0.125% special library sales tax
which will expire on September 30, 2018.

The Board adopted Ordinance 2414, which amends the current special library sales tax ordinance
by increasing the special tax rate from 0.125 percent to 0.25 percent, and extending the term of
the special tax for an additional 15 years. This Ordinance is subject to approval by, and will only
become effective if, 2/3rds of the voters voting on this ballot Measure approve the Measure. If
the Measure is approved by the voters, the adjusted tax rate will replace and supersede the
existing tax rate as of April 1, 2017. If the Measure is not approved by the voters, the existing
library special tax will remain in effect at the current rate, but only until it expires.

As required by State law, proceeds from the special library tax must be placed in a special fund
and may only be used for the specific purposes identified in Expenditure Plan included in the
Measure. These purposes include adding and relocating library services based on demand and
cost effectiveness; extending service hours at library branches; providing increased programs and
services for children, teens, seniors and persons with disabilities; increasing and replacing worn
out and out-of-date library materials; increasing and improving information services and
technology access in branch libraries and remote locations; and the continuation of a Citizens
Review Panel established by the Board to ensure that proceeds from the special library sales tax
are appropriated in accordance with the Expenditure Plan. The Measure requires that revenues
collected from the special library tax be used only to supplement existing Library funding, and
not to supplant existing funding for Library services.

The Measure requires the County’s Chief Fiscal Officer to file an annual report with the Board
regarding the amount of special library tax revenue collected and expended, and the status of any
project funded by the special library tax revenue.

The special library tax would be imposed on all retailers in the incorporated and unincorporated
County for the selling of tangible personal property at retail, subject to certain exemptions and
exclusions identified in the Measure.

A "Yes" vote is a vote to approve the special Library sales tax at the adjusted rate of one-
quarter of one percent and extend the special tax for an additional 15 years

A "No" vote is a vote to disapprove the special Library sales tax at the adjusted rate of
one-quarter of one percent and an extension of the tax at the adjusted rate for an
additional 15 years

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure A. If you desire a copy of the Measure,
please call the Nevada County Elections office at 530-265-1298 and a copy will be mailed at no
cost to you.