MEASURE M
PLACER COUNTY

Shall Placer County reconfigure the 80/65 Interchange to relieve congestion; better
maintain roads countywide; provide dedicated funding for rural road pothole repair;
widen roadways/expand transit; expand Highway 65 in each direction; provide safe
routes to school; add seniors/disabled persons transit; widen Baseline Road and build
Placer Parkway creating 1-80 alternatives, by establishing a one-half cent sales tax,
limited to 30 years, raising $53 million annually, with independent audits, citizens'
oversight, and increasing eligibility for state/federal matching?

YES	NO

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY THE COUNTY COUNSEL OF PLACER COUNTY MEASURE-M

The Placer County Transportation Planning Agency, designated and acting as the Placer County Local Transportation Authority
("Authority"), adopted Ordinance No. 16-02 ("Authority Ordinance") which would impose a retail transactions and use tax to
supplement local revenue for local transportation purposes and projects as authorized by section 180201 of the Public Utilities
Code. In order for the tax to be imposed, two-thirds of the electors voting on this measure must vote in favor of the
ordinance.

If this measure is approved, the Authority Ordinance will be implemented, imposing a one-half (1/2) cent retail transactions
and use tax countywide within Placer County. The tax will be effective for thirty (30) years and the proceeds of the tax can
only be used to fund the construction, maintenance, improvement, and operation in Placer County of streets, roads, and
highways, and the construction, improvement, and operation of public transit systems as identified in the Placer County
Transportation Improvement Plan ("Expenditure Plan") adopted by the Authority as a part of the Ordinance.

If this measure is approved, the ordinance will be operative on the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing more
than one hundred ten (110) days after adoption of the ordinance, but in no event earlier than April 1, 2017.

The Ordinance establishes pay-as-you-go financing as the preferred method of financing transportation improvements and
programs specified in the Expenditure Plan under the Ordinance; however, the Authority will also have the authority to issue
bonds in the future if needed to finance capital outlay expenditures, as outlined in the Expenditure Plan, payable from the
proceeds of the retail transactions and use tax. Pursuant to Public Utilities Code section 180250(b), the maximum bonded
indebtedness that may be outstanding at any one time cannot exceed the estimated proceeds of the tax, as determined by
the Expenditure Plan. The Expenditure Plan may be reviewed and amended annually pursuant to section 180207 of the Public
Utilities Code but any amendment cannot affect the rate of the tax imposed. A citizens' oversight committee shall be
appointed to ensure that tax revenue is expended in accordance with the Expenditure Plan.

The Authority's annual spending appropriations limit will initially be set at $450 million. The appropriations limit shall be
subject to adjustment as provided by law.

This measure makes no change to existing laws but will add to existing laws a countywide ordinance imposing a one-half (1/2)
cent retail transactions and use tax within Placer County to be used according to the requirements of the Ordinance and the
Expenditure Plan. The electors entitled to vote on this measure are the registered voters within Placer County
A "YES" vote on this Measure would approve a half-cent tax for 30 years for transportation improvements.

A "NO" vote on this Measure is a vote against the tax.

This analysis is submitted by the Office of the County Counsel of Placer County pursuant to Section 9313 of the California
Elections Code.

Gerald O. Carden, County Counsel

By: Brian R. Wirtz, Deputy County Counsel

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure M. If you desire a copy of the ordinance or measure, please
call the Elections Division at (530) 886-5650 and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you.

M-l

Argument In favor of Measure M

Measure M relieves congestion, repairs local roads, and improves safety, all with strict accountability. Sick of growing traffic
on highways and roads, robbing us of time with family? Vote Yes on Measure M. Troubled to see more dangerous accidents,
and unsafe routes around schools? Vote Yes on Measure M. Concerned about potholes and poor street maintenance that
cost you money? Vote Yes on Measure M. Want alternatives to automobile commuting; by train to Sacramento, or even
biking or walking? Vote Yes on Measure M.

Lack of local transportation funding threatens the quality of life we enjoy in Placer County, and puts the brakes on our
economy. Measure M provides funding for specific improvements across Placer County, including:

•	Reconfiguring the 80/65 Interchange to improve safety and relieve congestion.

•	Widening Highway 65.

•	Better maintaining streets, making local improvements, and filling potholes in every community in Placer
County.

•	Dedicating specific funding for rural road repair.

•	Improving Highway 49 with signal synchronization, sidewalks/bike lanes, extra lanes and turn pockets.

•	Helping seniors and disabled persons maintain mobility and independence by expanding Dial-A-Ride.

•	Improving commutes on 1-80 with new lanes, and providing alternatives by widening Baseline Road and building
the Placer Parkway.

•	Taking cars off freeways by increasing frequency of Capitol Corridor trains to Sacramento.

•	Providing safe routes to schools with dedicated funds to improve bike lanes and pedestrian routes.

•	Committing funds to Tahoe Basin improvements unique to the region.

Measure M contains STRONG TAXPAYER SAFEGUARDS. The projects are part of the ballot; funds must be spent as voter
approved. Annual, independent audits will be performed under a Taxpayers Oversight Committee, with results made publicly
available.

Transportation dollars raised in Placer County will stay in Placer County. Politicians can't raid the funds. No more than
1% may be spent on administration. Measure M preserves our quality of life and keeps our local economy strong. Vote Yes
on Measure M to Keep Placer Moving!

For more information: www.YesMeasureM.com.

Eric Sanchez	Susan Rohan	Ed Bonner	Tom Cosgrove	Jennifer Montgomery

President, League of Placer	Vice Mayor Roseville, Chair	Placer County	CEO Lincoln Area	Placer County Supervisor

County Taxpayers	Placer County Transportation	Sheriff	Chamber of Commerce	Representing Eastern Placer

Planning Agency	County

Rebuttal to argument In favor of Measure M

Measure M is a SALES TAX INCREASE that will damage our economy, hurting those who can least afford it.

The Ballot Summary and Argument in Favor list a grab bag of popular transportation projects that may never be constructed,
even if we vote to raise our taxes again. Don't be fooled into thinking that a vote for Measure M will magically produce
enough money to pay for everything on their list. Their own figures show those projects will cost more than Measure M will
produce! They are hoping to obtain funds from other sources, but we expect them to come back asking for another tax
increase.

The proponents say Measure M will raise $1.6 billion over thirty years, but they ignore the historic impact of higher tax rates
on local sales. If a small number of shoppers and businesses make their major purchases elsewhere to avoid this higher tax,
as many of them can easily do, the impact on revenues could be disastrous. A bad business climate not only lowers sales tax
revenues, but also lowers revenues from property and business taxes. For some of the largest corporate purchases that
produce the most revenue, sales taxes can be shifted from a high-tax county to low-tax county just by signing a contract in a
different office, regardless of where the goods are eventually used! Many miserable high-tax cities have already suffered this
experience. We must not follow them down that road!

Vote NO on Measure M. Taxes are already too high!

Debra Jackson	Thomas N. Hudson	Ken Campbell

Chairman, Placer Tea Executive Director, California	Past Chairman, Placer

Party	Taxpayer Protection Committee County Republican Party

Dan Sokol

Past President, League of
Placer County Taxpayers

Jean Pagnone
Treasurer, Placer County
Taxpayers Association

M-2

Argument against Measure M

Measure M is a major SALES TAX INCREASE that will damage our local economy, shut down businesses, and send
shoppers and their money out of Placer County.

Measure M will cost us $1.6 billion over 30 years, but many of the projects they promise will never be completed without
future revenue increases.

We already pay very high taxes to build and repair roads, but way too much of what we pay is diverted elsewhere.

Our County Supervisors found money for two Supervisor pay raises, including a historic 139% raise, but somehow they
couldn't find enough money for transportation even when tax revenues began breaking all previous records.

The Placer County Transportation Planning Agency has a "Bucks for Bikes" program that pays people to buy their own
bicycles. No kidding! They have filled our mailboxes with junk mail promoting this tax increase, they've purchased newspaper
ads, made telephone calls, and paid expensive consultants to convince us to raise taxes. Shouldn't they have used that
taxpayer money on roads?

Instead of raising taxes, we need to tell the politicians to make road building a priority again. We need freeways, not
bicycle giveaways, empty busses, and train subsidies! Our county budget has exploded to over $816 million, far higher than
expected, so there is no excuse for pretending that we can't find $50 million each year for high-priority transportation
projects.

Even if the politicians refuse to spend current revenues on transportation, they could easily set aside future revenue growth
for this critical spending priority. If we keep raising taxes every time they ignore our priorities, we will never fix the system
and we will never force them to live within their means.

Please VOTE NO on higher taxes. NO on Measure M.

Ken Campbell	Jean Pagnone	Debra Jackson	Ed Rowen	Thomas N. Hudson

Past Chairman, Placer	Treasurer, Placer County	Chairman, Placer Tea	President, Placer County	Executive Director, California

County Republican Party	Taxpayers Association	Party	Republican Assembly	Taxpayer Protection Committee

Rebuttal to argument against Measure M

Placer County residents, taxpayers and small businesses support Measure M because it contains strict accountability and
strong oversight, including annual audits reviewed by an independent Taxpayers Oversight Committee.

The funds from Measure M must be spent on the projects in the proposal, including:

•	Widening Highway 65.

•	Fixing the 80/65 Interchange.

•	Repairing potholes and better maintaining roads in every community, with dedicated funds for rural roads and "Safe
Routes to Schools."

•	Improving traffic flow and safety on Highway 49, and dedicated Tahoe Basin funding,

•	And creating alternatives to the congested 1-80 commute.

Opponents of Measure M agree Placer County should address these transportation needs, but offer NO PLAN to fix it.

Their way leads to even more time stuck in traffic, more accidents, more damage to vehicles from poorly maintained roads.
These add up to over $2,000 in increased costs annually per vehicle in our region.

Businesses will not invest in Placer County if their employees, customers and suppliers are stuck in congestion. That's why
every local Chamber of Commerce that's taken a position SUPPORTS MEASURE M!

EVERY JURISDICTION in Placer County spends 100% of their gas tax money on transportation. The Placer County
Transportation Planning Agency spends over 99% of the funds they control directly on transportation projects. But it's not
enough.

That's why the LEAGUE OF PLACER COUNTY TAXPAYERS SUPPORTS MEASURE M!

Here in Placer County, we solve our own problems. With a local source of transportation funds controlled by Placer County
voters, we can finally address the congestion that is worsening every year, robbing us of productive time or time with our
families.

Vote Yes on Measure M to Keep Placer Moving!

Wendy A Gerig	Eric	Sanchez	Jim	Holmes	Susan	Goto	Andrew C. Sisk, CPA

CEO, Roseville Area Chamber	Placer	County Supervisor Trustee, Placer Co. Placer County Auditor-

of Commerce	Board	of Education Controller

M-3

Full text of Measure M

PLACER COUNTY LOCAL TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY TRANSPORTATION
IMPROVEMENT PLAN AND RETAIL
TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX ORDINANCE
PREAMBLE

A properly functioning and well-maintained transportation system in Placer County is a key component of our high quality
of life and ability to attract jobs to our region. However, the decline in the purchasing power of the gas tax, and the
increasing restrictions that the state and federal government have placed on their limited available transportation funds, has
led to a rapid deterioration of our existing streets, roads and highways, and little to no available funding to expand our
transportation network. Our population is expected to continue to grow and with it, the demands on our transportation
system will only increase. Already, traffic and congestion are growing, and Placer County residents spend an increasing
amount of time stuck in traffic.

Maintenance and repairs of existing roadways and improvements to relieve congestion cannot be accomplished with
available funds. Without additional funds, the system will bog down and pavement will crumble into permanent disrepair.
State and federal highway funds are inadequate and competition for funds is increasing. Projects in regions of the state
which have a local source of transportation funds, primarily through local retail transactions and use tax funds, have been
and will continue to be viewed much more favorably in the selection process of the California Transportation Commission.
Local governments must either generate revenues to expand our system and maintain our investments or watch the system
collapse and endanger the health, economy, welfare and safety of all Placer County residents.

Enactment of a one-half of one percent (0.5%) retail transactions and use tax for transportation to supplement traditional
revenue sources, and revenues to be generated through locally-adopted developer fees and assessment districts for
transportation improvements, is the only way local governments can generate the funds needed to be sure the
transportation system will serve the current and future travel needs of Placer County.

The Placer County Transportation Planning Authority will continue to seek maximum funding for transportation
improvements through State and federal programs. The Authority will not provide retail transactions and use tax revenues to
any city, town, or to the County to replace revenues currently used by the city, town or the County for transportation
purposes; all of the funds generated will be used to provide new funding for expanding our transportation network and
maintenance of the existing transportation network.

It is important that the people of Placer County know that the funds generated by this proposed retail transactions and use
tax for transportation purposes will be used only for the transportation expenditure plan detailed in this ordinance, and
therefore, the Authority will establish a robust system of public accountability in conjunction with the tax, including a
taxpayer oversight committee which will perform independent audits of the spending on an annual basis and report the
findings of the audit to the people of Placer County.

The Placer County Local Transportation Authority ordains as follows:

SECTION I. SUMMARY. This Ordinance provides for the adoption of a County transportation expenditure plan, the imposition
of a retail transactions and use tax of one-half of one percent (0.5%) for a period of thirty (30) years, the authority to issue
bonds secured by such taxes, the administration of the tax proceeds, and the creation of an independent Citizen Oversight
Committee to review the mandatory annual financial audits of program expenditures and to produce an annual report of
findings to the Authority Board of Directors and the public.

SECTION II. DEFINITIONS. The following definitions shall apply in this Ordinance:

A.	"Authority" means the Placer County Local Transportation Authority, as set forth in Government Code Sections 67910
and 67911. The Placer County Transportation Planning Agency was designated as the Authority by the Placer County
Board of Supervisors on August 22, 2006.

B.	"County" means the County of Placer.

C.	"Expenditure Plan" or "Plan" means the Placer County Transportation Improvement Plan (attached as Exhibit A) and
adopted as part of this Ordinance including any future amendments thereto.

D.	"Tahoe Area" means the area east of the summit of the Sierra Nevada Mountains located within Placer County,
including, but not limited to, Tahoe City, Kings Beach, Carnelian Bay, Squaw Valley, Martis Valley, Northstar, and Alpine
Meadows.

M-4

E.	"Transportation Tax" means the retail transactions and use tax created by this Ordinance.

SECTION III. AUTHORITY. This Ordinance is enacted, in part, pursuant to the provisions of Division 19 (commencing with
section 180000) of the Public Utilities Code and Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code.

SECTION IV. IMPOSITION OF RETAIL TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX. This retail transactions and use tax shall be in addition to
any other taxes authorized by law, including any existing or future state or local sales tax or transactions and use tax. Subject
to voter approval of the same, the Authority shall impose, in the incorporated and unincorporated territory of the County of
Placer, the following retail transactions and use tax for a thirty (30) year period commencing April 1, 2017 (referred to as the
"Transportation Tax"):

A.	For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a retail transactions tax is hereby imposed upon all
retailers in the incorporated and unincorporated territory of the County at the rate of one-half of one percent (0.5%) of
the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail in the County on and after
the operative date of this Ordinance.

B.	An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other consumption in the County of tangible personal property
purchased from any retailer on and after the operative date of this Ordinance for storage, use or other consumption in
the County at the rate of one-half of one percent (0.5%) of the sales price of the property. This sales price shall include
delivery charges when such charges are subject to state sales or use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is
made.

SECTION V. PURPOSES. This Ordinance is adopted to achieve the following, among other purposes, and directs that the
provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish those purposes:

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with Section
7251) of Division 2 of the California Revenue and Taxation Code and Section 180050 et. seq. of the Public Utilities Code
which authorize the Authority to adopt this Ordinance which shall be operative if a two-thirds (2/3rds) majority of the
electors voting on the measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax at an election called for that purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates provisions identical to those of the Sales and Use
Tax Law of the State of California insofar as those provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and limitations
contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a Countywide transportation sales tax and provides a
measure therefor that can be administered and collected by the State Board of Equalization in a manner that adapts
itself as fully as practicable to, and requires the least possible deviation from, the existing statutory and administrative
procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization in administering and collecting the California State Sales and
Use Taxes.

D.	The funds generated by the Transportation Tax may only be used for transportation purposes including the
administration of the Expenditure Plan, as amended, including defense or prosecution of legal actions related thereto,
the construction, acquisition, maintenance, and operation of streets, roads, highways, including state highways and
public transit systems and for related transportation purposes, including project management and oversight of the
projects to be funded using the Transportation Tax, such as coordination with other responsible agencies as well as
project delivery and negotiation of project agreements. These purposes include expenditures for planning,
environmental reviews, engineering and design costs, and related right-of-way acquisition. Expenditures also include,
but are not limited to, debt service on bonds or other indebtedness, and expenses and reserves in connection with the
issuance of the same.

SECTION VI. BONDING AUTHORITY. Pay-as-you-go financing is the preferred method of financing transportation
improvements and programs under this Ordinance. However, the Authority may decide to use bond financing as an
alternative method if the scope of planned expenditures makes pay-as-you-go financing infeasible.

Upon voter approval of this Ordinance, the Authority shall have the power to sell or issue, from time to time, on or before the
collection of taxes, bonds, or other evidence of indebtedness, in an aggregate principal amount at any one time outstanding
not to exceed the estimated proceeds of the Transportation Tax, and to secure such indebtedness solely by way of future
collection of the Transportation Tax, for capital outlay expenditures for the purposes set forth in Section V hereof, including,
but not limited to, carrying out the transportation projects described in the Expenditure Plan.

SECTION VII. MAINTENANCE OF EFFORT. The Authority, by enactment of this Ordinance, intends the additional funds
provided government agencies by this Ordinance to supplement existing local revenues being used for transportation
purposes. The funds generated by the Transportation Tax shall not be used to replace existing transportation funding or to

M-5

replace requirements for new development to provide for its own transportation needs. Under this Ordinance, funding
priorities should be given to addressing current transportation needs, easing congestion, and improving safety.

The local government agencies shall maintain their existing commitment of transportation funds for transportation purposes,
and the Authority shall enforce this provision by appropriate actions, including fiscal audits of the local agencies. For
purposes of this Section VII, the local agency shall have satisfied its maintenance of effort requirement if it demonstrates that
it has expended funds for local street improvements and maintenance other than Transportation Taxes allocated to it in an
amount no less than an amount equal to the average percentage of the general fund budget spent for local street
improvements and maintenance for the five (5) fiscal years prior to the date when the local agency submits its report as
required by the Expenditure Plan.

SECTION VIII. TAHOE AREA SUBVENTION. After payment of the amount owed to the Board of Equalization for collection of
the Transportation Tax and administrative costs of the Authority as provided in this Ordinance, the Transportation Tax shall
be allocated to the Placer County Board of Supervisors for use for projects in the Tahoe Area in amounts as set forth in the
Expenditure Plan.

SECTION IX. ADMINISTRATION OF PLANS. The Authority shall impose the Transportation Tax and enter into an agreement
with the State Board of Equalization to collect the funds, shall allocate revenues derived from the Transportation Tax, and
shall administer the Expenditure Plan, consistently with the authority cited herein.

SECTION X. TRANSPARENCY. ACCOUNTABILITY. AND ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS. The Authority shall expend only that amount
of the funds generated from the Transportation Tax for staff support, audit, administrative expenses, and contract services
that is necessary and reasonable to carry out its responsibilities pursuant to Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code,
and in no case shall the funds expended for salaries and benefits exceed one percent (1 %) of the annual amount of revenue
raised by the Transportation Tax net of the amount of fees paid to the State Board of Equalization for collection of the sales
tax and prior to the distribution of the Transportation Taxes to the local jurisdictions as provided in the Expenditure Plan
(Exhibit A). Local jurisdiction administrative costs are considered separately and would also be limited to one percent (1%) of
each jurisdiction's Local Transportation Program under Section 3.3 of the Expenditure Plan (Exhibit A).

SECTION XL OPERATIVE DATE. Subject to voter approval, this Ordinance shall be operative on the first day of the first
calendar quarter commencing more than 110 days after adoption of the Ordinance, but in no event earlier than April 1, 2017.
Prior to the operative date of the Ordinance, the Authority shall contract with the State Board of Equalization to perform all
functions incidental to the administration and operation of the Ordinance; provided that if the Authority shall not have
contracted with the State Board of Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract and, in such case,
the operative date shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter following the execution of such a contract.

SECTION XII. ELECTION. The Authority requests the Board of Supervisors to call an election for voter approval of this
Ordinance, which election shall be held on November 8, 2016. The election shall be called and conducted in the same manner
as provided by law for the conduct of elections by a county. Pursuant to Section 180203 of the Public Utilities Code, the
sample ballot to be mailed to the voters shall be the full proposition as set forth in this Ordinance, and the voter information
handbook shall include the entire Expenditure Plan. Approval of this Ordinance, and the imposition of the Transportation Tax,
shall require the affirmative vote of two-thirds (2/3rds) of the electors voting on the proposition at the election described in
this section. The proposition to be placed on the ballot shall read substantially as follows:

"Shall Placer County:

•	Reconfigure the 80/65 interchange to relieve congestion;

•	Better maintain roads countywide;

•	Provide dedicated funding for rural road pothole repair;

•	Widen roadways/expand transit;

•	Expand Highway 65 in each direction;

•	Provide safe routes to school;

•	Add transit for seniors/disabled persons; and

•	Widen Baseline Road and build Placer Parkway creating 1-80 alternatives.

By establishing a one-half-cent sales tax, limited to 30 years, raising $53 million per year, with independent audits, citizens'
oversight, and increasing eligibility for state and federal matching?

YES NO"

M-6

SECTION XIII. EXPENDITURE PLAN AMENDMENTS. The Expenditure Plan for Transportation Tax funds may only be amended
as follows: (1) initiation of the amendment by the Authority reciting findings of necessity; and (2) approval by the city or town
councils representing both a majority of the cities or towns in the county and a majority of the population residing in the
incorporated areas of the County; and (3) approval by the Board of Supervisors.

Commencing on or before 2026 and at least every ten (10) years thereafter, the Authority shall review and, when necessary,
propose revisions to the Expenditure Plan. Such revisions shall be submitted for approval according to the procedures set
forth in this Section XIII. Until revisions to the Expenditure Plan have been approved and become effective, the then-existing
Expenditure Plan shall remain in full force and effect.

SECTION XIV. ANNUAL APPROPRIATIONS LIMIT. The annual appropriations limit of the Authority established pursuant to
Section 4 of Article XIIIB of the California Constitution and Section 180202 of the Public Utilities Code shall be $450 million.
The appropriations limit shall be subject to adjustment as provided by law.

SECTION XV. SEVERABILTIY. If any provision of this Ordinance, or the application thereof, is for any reason held invalid or
unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction to a person or circumstance, the remainder of the Ordinance and the
application of such provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby, and the Authority declares that
it would have passed each part of this Ordinance irrespective of the validity of any other part.

SECTION XVI. PLACE OF SALE. For the purposes of this Ordinance, all retail sales are consummated at the place of business of
the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination
or to a common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery
charges, when such charges are subject to the state sales and use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is made. In the
event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the State or has more than one place of business, the place or places
at which the retail sales are consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by
the State Board of Equalization.

SECTION XVII. ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW. Except as otherwise provided in this Ordinance and except insofar
as they are inconsistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the provisions of
Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a part
of this Ordinance as though fully set forth herein.

SECTION XVIII. LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF STATE LAW AND COLLECTION OF USE TAXES. In adopting the provisions of
Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the name of the Authority shall be
substituted therefor. However, the substitution shall not be made when:

1.	The word "State" is used as a part of the title of the State Controller, State Treasurer, State Board of Control,
State Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or the Constitution of the State of California;

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against the Authority or any agency,
officer, or employee thereof rather than by or against the State Board of Equalization, in performing the
functions incident to the administration or operation of this Ordinance.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sections referring to the exterior boundaries of the
State of California, where the result of the substitution would be to:

a)	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other consumption of
tangible personal property which would not otherwise be exempt from this tax while such sales,
storage, use or other consumption remain subject to tax by the State under the provisions of Part 1 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

b)	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal
property which would not be subject to tax by the state under the said provision of that code.

4.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711, 6715, 6737, 6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code.

B.	The word "County" shall be substituted for the word "State" in the phrase "retailer engaged in business in this State" in
Section 6203 and in the definition of that phrase in Section 6203.

SECTION XIX. PERMIT NOT REQUIRED. If a seller's permit has been issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, an additional transactor's permit shall not be required by this Ordinance.

SECTION XX. EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS.

A. There shall be excluded from the measure of the Transportation Tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by
the State of California or by any city, city and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and

M-7

Use Tax Law or the amount of any state-administered transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of the transactions tax the gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum products, to operators of aircraft to be used or
consumed principally outside the County in which the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of
such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property under the authority of the laws of this State, the United
States, or any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the County which is shipped to a point outside the County, pursuant to the
contract of sale, by delivery to such point by the retailer or the retailer's agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a
carrier for shipment to a consignee at such point. For the purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point outside
the County shall be satisfied:

a)	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1
(commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with
Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5
(commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration to an out-of-County address and
by a declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that such address is, in fact, his or
her principal place of residence; and

b)	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of business out-of-County and
declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, that the vehicle will be operated from that
address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to furnish the property for a fixed price pursuant
to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this Ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such property, for any period of time for
which the lessor is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date
of this Ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, the sale or lease of tangible personal property
shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party
to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or
not such right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this Ordinance, the storage, use or other consumption in this County
of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a transactions tax under any state-administered
transactions and use tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of aircraft and used or consumed by such
operators directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property for hire
or compensation under a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this
State, the United States, or any foreign government. This exemption is in addition to the exemptions provided in
Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior
to the operative date of this Ordinance.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the tangible personal property arises under a
lease which is a continuing purchase of such property for any period of time for which the lessee is obligated to
lease the property for an amount fixed by a lease prior to the operative date of this Ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, storage, use, or other consumption, or possession
of, or exercise of any right or power over, tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated
pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the
unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in business in the County shall not be required to
collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible personal property, unless the retailer ships or delivers the
property into the County or participates within the County in making the sale of the property, including, but not
limited to, soliciting or receiving the order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer in
the County or through any representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the County under
the authority of the retailer.

7.	"A retailer engaged in business in the County" shall also include any retailer of any of the following: vehicles
subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code,
aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels
registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be
required to collect use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an
address in the County.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this Ordinance may credit against that tax any transactions tax or reimbursement
for transactions tax paid to a County imposing, or retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2

M-8

of the Revenue and Taxation Code with respect to the sale to the person of the property the storage, use or other
consumption of which is subject to the use tax.

SECTION XXI. INDEPENDENT CITIZEN OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE. An independent Citizen Oversight Committee shall be
formed, as provided in the Expenditure Plan.

SECTION XXII. AMENDMENTS. All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this Ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part of this Ordinance, provided however, that no such amendment shall
operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this Ordinance.

SECTION XXIII. ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN. No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process
shall issue in any suit, action or proceeding in any court against the State or the Authority, or against any officer of the State
or the Authority, to prevent or enjoin the collection under this Ordinance, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.

SECTION XXIV. EFFECTIVE DATE. This Ordinance relates to the levying and collecting of the County retail transactions and use
taxes and shall take effect immediately.

SECTION XXV. ENVIRONMENTAL This Ordinance is not a project as defined in Section 15378 of the California Environmental
Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines and is therefore exempt from CEQA requirements. Prior to commencement of any project
included in the Expenditure Plan, any necessary environmental review required by CEQA shall be completed.

SECTION XXVI. ADOPTION OF ORDINANCE. This Ordinance was introduced and adopted at the regular meeting of the
Authority's governing Board on June 22, 2016.

June 22, 2016

By: Susan Rohan, Chair

Placer County Local Transportation Authority

ATTESTED:

By

Solvi Sabol, Clerk of the Board

Placer County Local Transportation Authority

M-9

PLACER COUNTY TRANSPORTATION - EXHIBIT A TO ORDINANCE NO. 16-02

IMPROVEMENT PLAN

This TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENT PLAN, which shall act as the County's Expenditure Plan (the "Plan"), was prepared by
the Placer County Local Transportation Authority (the "Authority") for the purpose of establishing a one-half of one percent
(0.5%) retail transactions and use tax for transportation purposes (the "Transportation Tax") to be collected for thirty (30)
years, if approved by the voters on November 8, 2016. This is proposed by the Authority as a means to fill the shortfall in
funding needed to: implement necessary highway, rail, and transit projects; secure new transportation corridors through
environmental clearance and right of way purchases; provide adequate maintenance and improvements on the local street
and road system; promote economic growth throughout the County; and meet the needs of commuters and the specialized
needs of the growing senior and disabled population.

CHAPTER 1: GOALS AND OBJECTIVES

1.1	MAINTAIN AND IMPROVE THE QUALITY OF LIFE IN PLACER COUNTY BY SUPPLEMENTING EXISTING FUNDS FOR
TRANSPORTATION

Reduce current congestion and provide adequate transportation facilities to accommodate reasonable growth in the future.

Provide funding for the adequate maintenance and improvement of local streets and roads in the cities, town, and
unincorporated areas.

Enhance Placer County's ability to secure state and federal funding for transportation by offering local matching funds.

1.2	PROVIDE FOR ACCOUNTABILITY IN THE EXPENDITURE OF TAXPAYER FUNDS

Provide for mandatory dedication of Transportation Tax funds only for the transportation improvements and programs
identified in this Plan and no other purpose.

Provide for a mandatory, annual financial audit of program expenditures to insure that all funds are spent in accordance
with this voter adopted Plan and associated legal ordinance.

Provide for an independent Citizen Oversight Committee to review the mandatory annual financial audits of program
expenditures and to produce an annual report of findings to the Board and the public.

Provide for a Maintenance of Effort requirement in funds made available to city, town, and County governments for local
street and road programs to insure the new money for this purpose is adding to current funding levels.

Provide for the strict limitation of administrative staff costs in implementing this Plan, by limiting, in law, funds expended for
salaries and benefits to no more than one percent (1%) of the annual amount of revenues raised by the Transportation Tax
as provided in Section X of the Ordinance, net of the amount of fees paid to the State Board of Equalization for collection of
the sales tax.

Provide for this Plan to be reviewed at least every ten (10) years for the period it is in effect to ensure that the changing
needs and priorities of the jurisdictions are met, as provided in Section XIII of the Ordinance.

Provide for the mandatory termination of the Transportation Tax in thirty (30) years from the operative date, requiring
additional voter approval at a County general election for any extension.

1.3	PROVIDE FOR EQUITY IN THE DISTRIBUTION OF TRANSPORTATION TAX REVENUES
Address the unique needs of each of the areas of the County.

Provide a reasonable balance between competing highway, rail, transit, bicycle/pedestrian, and local streets and road needs.
Return to the Tahoe Area a proportional share of the Transportation Tax generated in that area.

1.4	PROVIDE FOR LOCAL CONTROL OF THE TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENT PLAN

M-10

Provide for cost effective, local administration of the Plan through the existing Placer County Transportation Planning
Authority. No new agency would be required to administer these funds.

Delegate appropriate administrative responsibility to the cities, town, and the County and other local agencies designated
by a city, town, the County, or the Authority for local programs.

CHAPTER 2: TAXPAYER ACCOUNTABILITY SAFEGUARDS

2.1	LEGAL DEDICATION OF FUNDS

Funds generated by the Transportation Tax, net of the amount of fees paid to the State Board of Equalization, may only be
used for transportation purposes as described in the Ordinance governing this Plan, including the acquisition, construction,
environmental mitigation, maintenance, and operation of streets, roads, highways, including state highways and public
transit systems and equipment, and for related transportation purposes. These purposes include but are not limited to
expenditures for planning, environmental reviews, engineering and design costs, related right-of-way acquisition, and
construction, engineering, project management, and administration.

2.2	MANDATORY ANNUAL FISCAL AUDIT

No less than annually, the Authority shall conduct an independent fiscal audit of the expenditure of all funds generated by
the Transportation Tax. The audit, which shall be made available to the public, shall report on evidence that the expenditure
of funds is in accordance with this Plan as adopted by the voters in approving the Ordinance on November 8, 2016. In
addition, the audit shall determine compliance with the Maintenance of Effort requirements and requirements described in
Section 3.3 of this Plan entitled "Local Transportation Programs." The audit shall also ensure that no more than one percent
(1%) of the annual amount of Transportation Tax is used for administrative staff salaries and benefits in implementing this
Plan, as required under Section X of the Ordinance.

2.3	INDEPENDENT CITIZEN OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE

An eight (8) member Independent Citizen Oversight Committee shall be formed to review the annual independent fiscal
audit of the expenditure of the Transportation Tax funds and issue an annual report on its findings regarding compliance
with the requirements of the Expenditure Plan and the Ordinance to the Authority Board of Directors. The annual report
shall also be made available to the public. Membership in the Independent Citizen Oversight Committee shall be composed
of one registered voter appointed by the governing body of each city and town, and two appointed by the Placer County
Board of Supervisors. The two appointees of the County shall include at least one representing the Tahoe Area. Persons
currently employed by the County of Placer or any incorporated city or town therein, or currently serving as a city or town
councilmember or member of the Board of Supervisors, are not eligible for membership on the Citizen Oversight
Committee.

In the event a new city or town is incorporated, the Independent Citizen Oversight Committee membership would be
expanded to Include one voter appointed by the governing body of that new city or town.

2.4	MANDATORY PLAN UPDATE AND TERMINATION OF TRANSPORTATION TAX

This Plan shall be reviewed by the Authority at least every ten (10) years that the Transportation Tax is in effect to reflect
current and changing transportation priorities and needs in the County, as defined by the duly elected local government
representatives on the Authority Board. Any changes to this Plan must be adopted in accordance with Section XIII of the
Ordinance and with current law in effect at the time of the update, and must be based on findings of necessity for change by
the Authority. The Transportation Tax authorized to be collected by the voters shall expire in exactly thirty (30) years, unless
the voters approve an extension of the Transportation Tax prior to the expiration date, as may be required under state law in
effect at the time of the vote for extension.

CHAPTER 3: SPECIFIC TRANSPORTATION PROGRAMS TO BE FUNDED
3.1 MAJOR HIGHWAY / ROAD PROGRAMS - 44.75%

Many more state highway improvement projects are needed to deal with congestion and safety problems in Placer County
than existing state and federal revenues can fund. Programmed and projected formula funds from these sources over the
thirty (30) years are estimated to be $117 million and will fund about 8% of the improvements needed and identified in this

M-ll

Plan. Funds generated by the Transportation Tax will supplement those funding sources with an estimated $716 million and,
along with an estimated $715 million in developer impact fees, will cover the remaining costs estimated to accomplish these
improvements. The actual amount of funds available for expenditure on state highway improvement projects from the
identified sources and the amount expended for such purposes may vary from these estimates.

44.75% of the Transportation Tax is allocated to Major Highway/Road Projects. The Major Highway/Road projects to be
implemented with the Transportation Tax revenues are as follows:

ROUTE	LIMITS	PROJECT
1-80/SR 65	Interchange Phase 1-3	Improve Interchange operations and capacity
1-80	1-80/SR 174 Interchange l-80/Rocklin Road Interchange l-80/Horseshoe Bar Rd Interchange	Improve Interchange capacity and operations
1-80	Douglas Blvd to Riverside Ave (westbound) SR 65 to Rocklin Rd (eastbound)	Add/extend auxiliary lanes
SR 65	Galleria Blvd/Stanford Ranch Blvd to Lincoln Blvd.	Widen to 3-5 lanes each direction
SR 65	SR65/Nelson Lane Interchange	Improve to grade separated interchange
SR 49	1-80 to Dry Creek Road	Operational and safety improvements including widening, bikeways, sidewalks, signal synchronization and complete streets
Baseline Road	Foothills Blvd to SR 70/99	Widen to 4-6 lanes
Placer Parkway	SR 65 to SR 70/99	Construct 4 lane expressway

The final scope and project limits of all improvements proposed for the State Highway system will be determined through
the environmental clearance process.

The Authority may add additional Major Highway/Road projects, should the Transportation Tax produce more revenue than
now predicted or the Authority be more successful than anticipated in attracting state/federal matching funds, developer
impact fees, or obtaining other grants and funds for transportation infrastructure purposes.

3.2.	RAIL AND TRANSIT PROGRAM - 11.875%

This Plan will provide an estimated $190 million of Transportation Taxes to expand rail, add bus rapid transit, and implement
services and continue and expand programs to meet the transit needs of seniors, disabled persons and commuters.

3.2. a.	Transportation Services for Seniors and Disabled Persons

Seniors and disabled persons are becoming an increasing percentage of the population each year, and will drive demand for
more frequent transit service to more areas. In addition, a number of transportation programs have been implemented
which meet specialized needs for transportation to medical services, social service agencies and programs, shopping and
other purposes that cannot be met by conventional transit. An estimated $55 million in Transportation Tax funds will be
used to expand these transit services.

3.2. b.	Capitol Corridor Rail and Bus Rapid Transit Service

The existing Capitol Corridor rail service has provided a viable alternative to the automobile for daily commuters to
downtown Sacramento and reduces traffic on 1-80. The current service level needs to be augmented by expanding capacity
between Sacramento and Roseville to bring ten (10) round trips per day to Placer County. In addition, establishment of
frequent and timely bus rapid transit service that provides a reasonable alternative to the automobile for existing and future
daily commuters who travel to and within the South Placer area is needed. An estimated $90 million of Transportation Tax
funds will be made available for capital and operations of these rail and bus rapid transit services and to match available
federal funds.

3.2. c.	Commuter Bus Service

Placer County's existing commuter bus services provide a safe, convenient, and comfortable alternative to driving and

M-12

removes congestion from highways. There is strong demand to expand this highly popular effective service to connect more
residential areas and major employment centers. An estimated $45 million of Transportation Tax funds will be made
available for capital and operations of commuter bus services, and to match available federal and state funds.

The actual amount of funds available for expenditure on transit and other projects described in this Section from the
identified sources and the amount expended for such purposes may vary from these estimates.

3.3.	LOCAL TRANSPORTATION PROGRAM - 30%

The local transportation systems, particularly local streets and roads, are critical to the everyday movement of people within
the cities, town, and the County.

Much of the road system is aging, has potholes, and is in need of expanded maintenance and rehabilitation. New local roads
adjacent to new residential and business developments will continue to be constructed and paid for by the developers.
Current resources, without the establishment of Transportation Tax revenues for transportation, cannot provide adequate
funding to maintain the local street and road system at the level necessary to adequately serve the public.

The priorities for local transportation vary among individual local jurisdictions. While overlay, reconstruction, repair, and
maintenance of the local road system are needs common to all and is specifically allowable as an expenditure of these
funds, there are additional needs as well. Transportation Tax funds can be used for transportation projects, transit
operations, projects that support transportation/land use coordination, and air quality improvement projects, as designated
by this Plan. Some examples of allowable projects include bike paths, transit centers, widening of existing local roads, local
matching funds for transportation grants or earmarks, fueling stations for electric vehicles, compressed natural gas or other
alternative fuels, sidewalks and pedestrian paths, transportation demand management programs, lighting, landscaping,
security for transportation facilities, park and ride lots, Safe Routes to School programs, and traffic signal synchronization.

This Plan will provide an estimated $ 480 million of Transportation Taxes specifically for these purposes. The funds will be
distributed to the cities, town, and the County by a formula based on an equal weighting of each jurisdiction's proportionate
share of the total County population and road miles, with a minimum allocation of $250,000 for each jurisdiction. Allocations
will be updated annually based on California Department of Finance population data and reported road miles.

The actual amount of funds available for expenditure on local transportation projects from the identified sources and the
amount expended for such purposes may vary from these estimates.

In order to be eligible for these funds, each jurisdiction shall satisfy and continue to satisfy the following requirements:

1.	On July 1 of each year, file a Five-Year Capital Improvement Program including all capital transportation projects,
including projects funded by the jurisdiction's share of the Transportation Tax.

2.	The portion of funds under this Program designated to the Non-Tahoe portion of Placer County shall include a minimum
of 50% into a "Placer County Rural Roads Maintenance and Repair Fund." Expenditures from this Fund shall be restricted to
the repair, safety, and maintenance of existing county roads, and not used for capacity increasing transportation
improvements, in the areas represented by the following Municipal Advisory Councils (MACs):

•	Donner Summit

•	Foresthill Forum

•	Horseshoe Bar/Penrvn

•	Meadow Vista

•	Newcastle/Ophir

•	North Auburn

•	Rural Lincoln

•	Sheridan

•	Weimar/Appleaate/Colfax

•	West Placer

The County shall consult with each MAC at least once annually as part of the development of the MAC'S Five-Year Capital
Improvement Program to identify local priorities for resurfacing, pothole repair, and other road maintenance and repair.

3.	Adopt and administer a development impact fee program that requires new development to pay a fair share of necessary
transportation improvements attributable to the new development.

M-13

4.	On July 1 of each year, file with the Authority an annual Expenditure Report for the prior fiscal year identifying the amount
of Transportation Taxes, developer impact fees and other local agency funds expended by the jurisdiction and certify that
the maintenance of effort requirements of the Ordinance and the Expenditure have been satisfied.

3.4	TAHOE AREA PROGRAM - 3%

The Tahoe Area of Placer County is that area east of the summit of the Sierra Nevada Mountains located within Placer
County, including but not limited to Tahoe City, Kings Beach, Carnelian Bay, Squaw Valley, Martis Valley, Northstar, and
Alpine Meadows. This Plan is designed to recognize the unique transportation challenges and priorities for the Tahoe Area
by providing an estimated $48 million for improvements such as:

•	Provide funding for the improvement and expansion of the bicycle and pedestrian trail system, including
maintenance and snow removal

•	Improve and Expand Public and Specialty Transit Service

•	Provide funding for Local Streets and Roads Improvements, including road rehabilitation

•	Improve Safety and Visibility at Major Intersections and Arterial Roads, including snow removal

In order to be eligible for these funds, the Tahoe Area, as represented by the County of Placer, will be required to file a Five-
Year Capital Improvement Program, updated annually, with the Authority outlining anticipated expenditures. The North Lake
Tahoe Transportation Authority, created pursuant to Government Code Section 67964, will not have any role in developing
or administering said programs or funds unless expressly designated by subsequent action of the Placer County Board of
Supervisors.

3.5	BICYCLE AND PEDESTRIAN PROGRAM - 4.75%

Bicycle, pedestrian, and neighborhood electric vehicle (NEV) travel provide a viable alternative for short distance trips and
enhance the quality of life in our neighborhoods. Safe, easy to use facilities in key areas support the attractiveness of these
clean and healthy transportation modes. An estimated $76 million in net Transportation Tax funds will be used to match
local, state, and federal funds to construct and improve bicycle, pedestrian, and neighborhood electric vehicle facilities and
otherwise to support walkable and bikeable communities including Safe Routes to School.

The Authority shall establish, in the first year after the adoption of this Ordinance, the criteria by which projects are deemed
eligible for funding under this Program, and the selection criteria by which such eligible projects are selected. The eligibility
and selection criteria shall include safety, connectivity to schools and to the overall system estimated demand/usage, ability
to attract matching funds, and lack of other funding in the overall Transportation Expenditure Plan.

3.6	COMPETITIVE PROJECTS PROGRAM - 4.625%

It is recognized that the Plan cannot anticipate every factor that could affect transportation needs over its thirty (30) year life.
New technologies, new travel patterns, and new transportation modes are amongst the many possibilities that may arise in
the future. To provide the flexibility to meet those unanticipated needs and opportunities, the Transportation Plan is
anticipated to provide approximately $74 million to a Competitive Projects Program. The Authority shall establish, in the first
year after the adoption of this Ordinance, the criteria by which projects are deemed eligible for funding under this Program,
and the selection criteria by which such eligible projects are selected. The eligibility and selection criteria shall include safety,
congestion relief, ability to attract matching funds, and lack of other funding in this overall Transportation Expenditure Plan.
Any Competitive Projects Program funds unspent at the conclusion of the thirty (30) year Plan would be added to the Local
Transportation Program

CHAPTER 4:	BOND	FINANCING

Construction of the highway and rail projects and implementation of the local streets and roads and other programs
identified in this Plan are needed as soon as possible. In order to accomplish this, some level of borrowing will be required,
with debt to be repaid with Transportation Tax revenues. The Authority will determine the extent of borrowing that is
reasonable and that can be supported by Transportation Tax revenues as the Plan is implemented.

M-14

TRANSPORTATION TAX REVENUE ALLOCATIONS	
Major Highway/Road Program	44.750%
Rail and Transit Program	11.875%
Bicycle and Pedestrian Program	4.750%
Local Transportation Program/Rural Roads Maintenance and Repair Program	30.000%
Tahoe Area Program	3.000%
Competitive Protects Program	4.625%
Transparency, Accountability, and Administration	1.000%
TOTAL	100.000%

The Authority may reallocate the expenditure of Transportation Taxes in any given year on a different percentage basis
provided that the percentage allocations set forth above are achieved over the duration of the Ordinance.

CHAPTER 6. FUNDING FLEXIBILITY AND BONDING TO EXPEDITE PROJECTS

To more quickly deliver transportation projects for the benefit of Placer County residents, visitors, and businesses, the
Authority may temporarily shift Transportation Tax revenues and developer impact fees administered by the South Placer
Regional Transportation Authority (SPRTA) amongst projects in any given year. However, the proportionate shares for
funding contributions and purposes over the 30-year period may not be changed without an amendment of this Plan as
required by law and Section XIII of the Ordinance. Transportation Tax revenues subject to this temporary shift specifically
exclude those annually allocated to the cities, town, and County under the Local Transportation Program (Section 3.3 of this
Plan) and those allocated to the Tahoe Area under this Plan (although Tahoe Area funds may be shifted between projects
benefiting the Tahoe Area). Shifts may not be made without previous consultation with the affected local agencies and two-
thirds majority approval of the Authority Board of Directors.

CHAPTER 7. INFORMING THE PUBLIC OF LOCAL FUNDING SUPPORT

All projects using $1 million or more of Transportation Tax revenues shall be signed to inform the public that Transportation
Tax revenues support the project.

CHAPTER 8. SEVERANCE PROVISIONS

If any provision of this Plan, or the application thereof, is for any reason held invalid and unenforceable by a court of
competent jurisdiction to a person or circumstance, the remainder of the Plan and the application of such provision to other
persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby, and the Authority declares that it would have passed each part of
this Plan irrespective of the validity of any other part.

M-15