RESOLUTION NO. 4760

mum

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF EAST PALO ALTO

CALLING AND ORDERING THE SUBMISSION TO THE QUALIFIED
ELECTORS OF THE CITY OF EAST PALO ALTO A MEASURE RELATING TO
A PROPOSED ORDINANCE IMPOSING A BUSINESS LICENSE TAX EQUAL TO
ONE AND A HALF PERCENT (1.5 %) OF GROSS RECEIPTS ON OWNERS OF
FIVE OR MORE RESIDENTIAL RENTAL UNITS AND PROHIBITING THE
PASS-THROUGH OF THE TAX TO TENANTS

WHEREAS, business license taxes for the rental of residential property may be
increased by a majority vote of the people; and

WHEREAS, residential rents in East Palo Alto have increased dramatically
primarily due to high demand due to East Palo Alto’s location in the center of Silicon
Valley, and large number of jobs created nearby; and

WHEREAS, in 1984 the citizens of East Palo Alto passed a strong rent control
system which allowed a fair return to owner investment while not permitting large increases
to the residents but changes in state law in 1999 weakened East Palo Alto’s system by
imposing “vacancy decontrol” on rent stabilized apartments, allowing landlords to raise
rents without limitation whenever a new renter moves in;and

WHEREAS, as a result of “vacancy decontrol” and unprecedented market forces,
real (inflation-adjusted) rents in East Palo Alto have increased and renters are paying more
in rent, over and above the inflation adjustment for what is necessary for a fair return; and

WHEREAS, dramatically increased rents transfer income from East Palo Alto
residents to landlords of large rental properties, the majority of whom live outside of East
Palo Alto, creating hardships for low and moderate-income tenants, draining the economic
health of the community and increasing the need for public services of all kinds, including
affordable housing and homelessness prevention; and

WHEREAS, by increasing the business license tax on high residential rents, and
applying the increase only to investors who own five or more residential rental units, this
measure will recapture a small part of the rental income stream for the benefit of the entire
community, and

WHEREAS, a Consolidated General Municipal Election on Tuesday, November 8,
2016 has been called by Resolution Nos, 4750 and 4751, adopted on July 5, 2016;and

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OF EAST PALO ALTO THAT:

SECTION I. The City Council pursuant to its right and authority, does order to be
submitted to the voters at a General Municipal election the following question:

Shall the business license tax a landlord with five or more residential rental
units pays the City of East Palo Alto, which shall not be passed on to	w

tenants, be set at 1.5% of gross receipts, until terminated by the voters or K

reduced by Council, and the approximately $600,000 raised annually used \«=_

as directed by the City Council for general fund purposes, such as funding 12
programs to increase affordable housing, and protect local residents from
displacement and from homelessness? H

YES

NO

SECTION 2. The full text of the proposed measure submitted to the voters is
attached as Exhibit A to this Resolution, which is incorporated herein by this reference. To
become effective, two-thirds of the City Council must vote to place the measure on the
ballot and a majority of the voters voting on the measure must vote in the affirmative. The
method of collection of the tax would be a specified in relevant sections of Chapter 5.04 of
the Municipal Code governing the collection of business license taxes.

SECTION 3. The City Council hereby requests the San Mateo County Registrar of
Voters to provide all services necessary to conduct the Election and to conduct and canvass
the results of the Election. The City will reimburse San Mateo County for the actual cost
incurred in conducting the election when the work is completed and upon receipt of a bill
stating the amount due as determined by the elections official.

SECTION 4. In all particulars not recited in this Resolution, the election shall be held
and conduced as provided by law for holding municipal elections.

SECTION 5. Notice of the time and place of holding the election is given and the
City Clerk is authorized, instructed and directed to give further or additional notice of the
election, in time, for and a manner as required by law. The hours during which the polling
places for the Election shall be open shall be the hours established for the Consolidated
Municipal Election.

SECTION 6. The City Clerk is hereby directed to do all things required by law to
effectuate the Consolidated General Municipal Election, and to present the measure
submitted herein to the electorate, including, but not limited to, required publications,
postings, noticing and filings.

SECTION 7. Pursuant to California Elections Code Section 9280, the City Council
hereby directs the City Clerk to transmit a copy of this resolution to the City Attorney.

The City Attorney shall prepare an impartial analysis of the measure, not to exceed 500
words in length, showing the effect of the measure o the existing law and the operation of
the measure, and transmit such impartial analysis to the City Clerk within fifteen (15) days
of the adoption of this Resolution.

SECTION 8. Arguments for and against, not to exceed 300 words in length may be
filed consistent with Elections Code Section 9282 requirements. The City Council declines,
pursuant to the provisions of Section 9285 of the Elections Code to permit rebuttal
arguments.

SECTION 9. The City Clerk is herby directed to file a certified copy of this
Resolution with the San Mateo County Board of Supervisors and the San Mateo County
Registrar of Voters.

ADOPTED this 19th day of July 2016, by the following vote:

AYES:	ROMERO, ABRICA, RUTHERFORD, GAUTHIER

NOES:	MOODY

ABSENT:

ABSTAIN:

SIGNED:

ATTEST:

APPROVED AS TO FORM:

EXHIBIT A

ORDINANCE NO.__________

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF EAST PALO ALTO
IMPOSING A BUSINESS LICENSE TAX EQUAL TO ONE AND A HALF
PERCENT (1.5 %) OF GROSS RECEIPTS ON OWNERS OF FIVE OR MORE
RESIDENTIAL RENTAL UNITS AND PROHIBITING THE PASS-THROUGH OF

THE TAX TO TENANTS

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF EAST PALO ALTO ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1. Findings and declarations.

The People of East Palo Alto find and declare as follows:

a.	Business license taxes for the rental of residential property may be increased by a vote of
the people.

b.	Any increase in this tax cannot be passed on to tenants protected by the City’s rent
ordinances and regulations and likely will not be passed on to other renters since
landlords already typically charge rents to the maximum the market will bear.

c.	Residential rents in East Palo Alto have increased dramatically primarily due to high
demand due to East Palo Alto’s location in the center of Silicon Valley, and large
number of jobs created nearby.

d.	In 1984 the citizens of East Palo Alto passed a strong rent control system that allowed a
fair return to landlord investment while not permitting large increases to the residents. In
1999 the State legislature weakened East Palo Alto’s system by imposing “vacancy
decontrol” on rent stabilized apartments, which allows landlords to raise rents without
limitation whenever a new renter moves in. Over 85% of East Palo Alto’s older rental
apartments have now had vacancy increases. Newer buildings are entirely exempt from
rent stabilization.

e.	As a result of “vacancy decontrol” and unprecedented market forces, real (inflation-
adjusted) rents in East Palo Alto have increased and renters are paying more in rent, over
and above the inflation adjustment for what is necessary for a fair return.

f.	Dramatically increased rents transfer income from East Palo Alto residents to landlords
of large rental properties, the majority of whom live outside of East Palo Alto. This
transfer creates hardships for low and moderate-income tenants, drains the economic
health of the community (less money for families to spend on local shopping and
services) and increases the need for public services of all kinds, including affordable
housing and homelessness prevention.

g.	By increasing the business license tax on high residential rents, this measure will
recapture a small part of the rental income stream for the benefit of the entire
community.

h.	The increase will only apply to investors who own five or more residential rental units.
In addition, those units with historically low rents will be exempt from the increased
business license tax.

Section 2. Section 5.08.120 of the East Palo Alto Municipal Code is amended to read as
follows:

5.08.120	— Rental of real property

Every person or entity engaged in the business of renting or letting a building, structure or
other property, or a portion of such building, structure or property, within the city for any
purpose, except for those engaged in the business of renting or letting five or more
residential units within the city, shall pay an annual license fee as provided in the fee
schedule established by the city.

Section 3. A new Section 5.08.125 is added to the East Palo Alto Municipal Code to read as
follows:

5.08.125 Rental of five or more units of residential real property.

1)	Notwithstanding Section 5.08.120, this Section shall govern the taxation of gross
receipts from the rental of five or more residential rental units in the city of East Palo
Alto.

2)	Every person or entity engaged, including through an interest in another entity, in the
business of renting or leasing five or more dwelling units in the City of East Palo Alto
shall pay an annual tax of 1.5% of gross receipts.

3)	Gross receipts from the following categories of dwelling units shall not be subject to this
Section, but shall be subject to section 5.08.120:

a)	Dwelling units owned by a nonprofit corporation whose primary purpose is the
provision of affordable housing;

b)	Dwelling units whose rents are controlled under state or federal law, deed
restrictions, or agreements with public agencies, at rental rates that are affordable to
households earning no more than 80% of AMI and whose tenants must be income-
qualified;

c)	Units occupied by tenants receiving monthly rental assistance (such as Section 8
vouchers or Shelter + Care) from the County of San Mateo Department of Housing;
and

d)	Any dwelling unit during the first 10 years after the issuance of a certificate of
occupancy.

4)	Any person or entity otherwise subject to the tax imposed under this Section may seek a
one year hardship exemption due to exceptional circumstances. The Rent Stabilization
Administrator may approve such applications for good cause, such good cause being
determined in accordance with standards set out in the City Rent Stabilization and Just
Cause for Eviction Ordinance, Chapter 14.04 of the East Palo Alto Municipal Code.

Such approvals shall be in writing and specifically state the factors that constitute good
cause. Any hardship exemption shall be effective for one tax year only, after which it
will expire. Taxpayers who seek hardship exemptions must reapply every year.

5)	The City Council may reduce the tax rate set forth in this Section for rental of five or
more dwelling units, and may terminate any such reductions, without further voter
approval.

6)	The tax imposed by this chapter shall not be passed on to existing tenants in the form of
rent increases or in any manner, including reduction in services or added charges for
services, unless such pass through is constitutionally required.

7)	The City Council may use the funds generated for any purposes deemed necessary and
appropriate for the benefit of the citizens of East Palo Alto. Periodically, Council shall
review housing policy, housing programs, and related issues to determine how and to
what extent the City should establish and fund such programs, if any, to increase the
supply of affordable housing and protect residents from displacement and homelessness,
in light of the City's budget cycle and other relevant funding cycles.

Section 5. Conflicting Measures.

This measure is intended to be comprehensive and fully address and occupy the field of
taxation of receipts from the rental of dwelling units, and real property and buildings in
general. It is the intent of the people of the City of East Palo Alto that in the event this
measure and any other measure relating to taxation of receipts from the rental of dwelling
units, or real property and buildings in general, appear on the same ballot, the provisions of
the other measure shall be deemed in their entirety to be in conflict with this measure. If this
measure receives a greater number of affirmative votes than any conflicting measure or
measures, this measure shall prevail in its entirety, and all provisions of such other measure
or measures shall be null and void in their entirety. If this measure is approved by the voters
but does not receive a greater number of affirmative votes than any other measure(s)
appearing on the same ballot relating to taxation of receipts from the rental of dwelling

units, or real property and buildings in general, then this measure shall take effect to the
extent not in conflict with said other measure(s).

Section 6. Severability.

If any word, phrase, sentence, part, section, subsection, or other portion of this Ordinance,
or any application thereof to any person or circumstance is declared void, unconstitutional,
or invalid for any reason, then such word, phrase, sentence, part, section, subsection, or
other portion, or the prescribed application thereof, shall be severable, and the remaining
provisions of this chapter, and all applications thereof, not having been declared void,
unconstitutional or invalid, shall remain in full force and effect. The People of the City of
East Palo Alto hereby declare that they would have passed this ordinance, and each section,
subsection, sentence, clause and phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or more
sections, subsections, sentences, clauses or phrases had been declared invalid or
unconstitutional.