RINCON RANCH COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT

(This Measure will appear on the ballot in the following form.)

MEASURE KK

Shall the Rincon Ranch Community Services District be authorized to establish and
levy a special tax override, on all taxable real property within its boundaries for the
purpose of providing funds for repair and resurface of the roads maintained by the
District, with this special tax not to exceed five dollars and twenty cents ($5.20) per
acre, or portion thereof, plus one hundred fifty dollars ($150) per parcel of land per
year with a provision for an annual increase not to exceed the annual Engineering
News Record (ENR) for the prior year?

This measure requires approval by two-thirds of the voters voting on the measure.

SPECIAL TAX ELECTION
COUNTY COUNSEL IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

This measure was placed on the ballot by the governing board of the Rincon Ranch
Community Services District (“District”). If approved by two-thirds of the voters voting on the
measure, this measure would establish an annual special tax on all taxable property within the
District.

Amount of Tax

The special tax may not exceed $5.20 per acre or portion thereof. In addition, the
special tax also includes a charge of $150 per parcel. For example, one parcel consisting often
acres would pay $202.00 (10 X $5.20 = $52 + $150 = $202), and one parcel consisting of one
acre would pay $155.20 ($5.20 + $150 = $155.20).

The District has indicated the special tax may be increased annually in an amount not
to exceed the annual Engineering News Record (ENR) for the prior year.

If two-thirds of the qualified electors voting on this measure vote for approval, the
special tax will be imposed annually until repealed by the District or the voters.

Purpose and Use of Special Tax Revenue

This measure requires that all special tax revenue be used for the purposes of repairing
and resurfacing of the roads maintained by the District.

A “YES” vote is a vote in favor of establishing a special tax for the purposes of repairing
and resurfacing the roads maintained by the District.

A “NO” vote is a vote against establishing a special tax for the purposes of repairing
and resurfacing the roads maintained by the District.

PR-22G0-KK-1

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE KK

Your friends and neighbors on the Rincon Ranch Community Services District Board have placed
a measure on the November Ballot to provide the necessary funds to improve the existing roads
that the district maintains. If passed, Measure KK will collect the funds to make the needed
improvements starting in 2017 and ongoing. By then, it will be over 20 years since our last
overlay project. The last overlay was funded from a similar special road assessment approved by
the voters in the district that ends this year.

Measure KK requests that the voters to authorize the same assessment $5.20 per acre and $150
per parcel of land, the same assessment that is currently being assessed and ends this year.
Measure KK also requests the fee be indexed annually by the Engineering New Record (ENR) for
the prior year. By adding an index, it will help the District keep up with the increased cost of
asphalt, labor and equipment.

The only revenue the district currently receives is a portion of the 1% general tax revenue,
approximately $12,500 annually, which is barely enough for insurance, required audit fees, county
tax collection and road maintenance cost. It is imperative that we protect our investment in our
roads NOW. If we allow further deterioration it will cost thousands more in the future.

We urge you to vote YES ON MEASURE KK. Let’s protect our roads and property values.

SHAUN SUMMERS

Board President/Property Owner

R. L. PUCK

Property Owner/Director

ROSALIO PLASCENCIA
Property Owner/Director

ROLAND SIMPSON
Director

RON JOHNSON
Director/Property Owner

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE KK

No argument against Measure KK was filed in the office of the Registrar of Voters

PR-22G0-KK-2