RESOLUTION NO. 3727

AUG 1 0 2015

C

COUNTY CLERK
REGISTRAR OP VOTERS

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
SUBMITTING TO THE VOTERS FOR THE NOVEMBER 8, 2016 ELECTION
THE QUESTION OF WHETHER TO AUTHORIZE AND REGULATE A SINGLE
MARIJUANA DISPENSARY, AND IF AUTHORIZED, TO IMPOSE A
DISPENSARY GROSS RECEIPTS TAX, TO BE DESIGNATED AS MEASURE _

WHEREAS, some members of the public expressed a need for a marijuana dispensary;

©

CN

WHEREAS, the City Council desires to submit the issue of one marijuana dispensary to the voters;

WHEREAS, the precise location of the dispensary is unknown;

WHEREAS, if approved, the City Council will adopt an ordinance addressing the location and regulating
the dispensary to protect the health, safety and welfare of the public.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED

1.	That a municipal election is hereby called and ordered to be held in the City on November
8, 2016, at which election there shall be submitted to the qualified voters the measure set forth below.

2.	That said measure shall appear on the ballot in the following form:

MEASURE_______

SHALL THE CITY OF COALINGA AUTHORIZE AND REGULATE A
SINGLE MARIJUANA DISPENSARY TO BE LOCATED IN THE
CITY OF COALINGA AND, IF AUTHORIZED, IMPOSE A
DISPENSARY GROSS RECEIPTS TAX, AS SET FORTH IN
ORDINANCE NO. 789

3.	A copy of the full text of Ordinance No. 788 will be mailed at no cost to the voters by
contacting Shannon Jensen, Deputy City Clerk at (559) 935-1533.

4.	The measure shall be submitted to the voters of Coalinga as required by State Statute and
Amendments to the California constitution approved by the voters of California in 1986 as Proposition 62
and in 1996 as Proposition 218.

5.	Ordinance No. 788 shall be deemed ratified and term limits shall be imposed on the
members of the Coalinga City Council if more than fifty percent (50%) of the qualified voters voting on
the measure vote in favor thereof.

6.	The polls for said election shall be open on the day of said election in accordance with the

California Elections Code.

/

(

16 AUG 10 am!0'.45'.15

7.	The municipal election hereby called for November 8,2016, shall be and is hereby ordered
consolidated with the General Election to be held within the City on said date, and within the territory
affected by the consolidation. The election shall be held and conducted, election officers appointed, voting
precincts designated, ballots printed, polls opened and closed, ballots counted and returned, returns
canvassed, results declared, and all other proceedings incidental to and connected with the election shall be
regulated and done in accordance with the provisions of law regulating the election as specified herein.
The Board of Supervisors of Fresno County and the Fresno County Clerk, Elections Division, are hereby
requested to order the consolidation of the municipal election hereby called with the general election to be
held within the City on said date, and within the territory affected by the consolidation, and the Board and
the Elections Division are hereby authorized to canvass the returns of said municipal election, and said
municipal election shall be held in all respects as if there were only one election and the form of ballot
shall be as provided for the general election. Said Board shall certify the results of the canvass of the
returns of said municipal election to the City Council which shall thereafter declare the results thereof.
The measure submitted by this Resolution shall be designated on each ballot by a letter printed on the left
margin of the square containing the description of the measure as provided by the California Elections
Code.

8.	All persons qualified to vote at municipal elections in the City upon the date of the election
herein provided shall be qualified to vote upon the measure submitted at said election.

9.	Ballots for the election shall be provided in the form and in the number provided by law. On
said ballots, in addition to any other printed matter which may be required by law, two voting squares shall
be set off to the right of the measure submitted at the election, one having the word “Yes” printed before it,
and the other having the word “No” printed before it.

10.	Each voter to vote for the measure shall stamp or write an “X,” or indicate by hole punch, or
other means, in the blank space opposite the word "Yes" on the ballot to the right of the proposition, and
each voter to vote against measure shall stamp or write an “X,” or indicate by hole punch, or other means,
in the blank space opposite the word "No" on the ballot to the right of the measure.

11.	The City Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to publish this resolution as may be
required by law and to transmit, for receipt no later than August 12, 2016, a certified copy of this
resolution to the Fresno County Clerk, Elections Division, and to any other appropriate official of Fresno
County.

12.	The City Attorney is hereby authorized and directed to prepare an impartial analysis of the
measure specified in this resolution and/as provided in Ordinance 788 showing the effect and operation of
the measure. The analysis is to be submitted by the City Attorney to the Fresno County Clerk, Elections
Division, or other appropriate official for printing as required by law. The analysis shall not exceed 500
words in length and shall otherwise comply in all respects with the applicable provisions of the California
Elections Code. The deadline for submittal of the analysis shall be as required by the Fresno County Clerk,
Elections Division, or other appropriate County official.

13.	For its approval and signature this Council hereby directs the City Manager and her staff to
prepare and file a written argument for the measure to be submitted at said municipal election. Said
written argument for the proposition shall not exceed 300 words in length. If any person submits an
argument against said proposition, the City Manager and her staff shall prepare, for the approval and
signature of the Council, a rebuttal argument not exceeding 250 words. The argument and rebuttal shall

-2-

otherwise conform to and comply with all applicable provisions of the California Elections Code. The
deadline for submittal of the arguments, in favor or in opposition, shall be as required by the Fresno
County Clerk, Elections Division, or other appropriate County official.



The foregoing Resolution was approved and adopted at a regular meeting of the City Council of the
City of Coalinga held on the 4th day of August, 2016, by the following vote:

AYES:Vosburg, Keough, Raine, Ramsey

NOES: Lander
ABSTAIN: None
ABSENT:	None

ATTEST:	APPROVED:

City Clerk/Deputy City Clerk

Ron Ramsey, Mayor

J:\wdocs\01904\031 \RES\OQ4525Q2.DOC