Pittsburg Unified School District, California,
Parcel Tax, Measure S (November 2016)

Ballot question

The following question appeared on the ballot:111

To provide a stable, local funding source for art, music and athletic essential program
equipment and materials, to attract and retain highly qualified teachers and staff, to
enhance and expand access to art, music and athletic programs, shall Pittsburg Unified
School District levy an annual tax of $91 per taxable parcel (approximately
$1,200,000) for seven years, beginning 7/1/2017 with an annual inflation adjustment of
$6, with citizen oversight and senior citizen, SSI and SSDI exemptions?121

Impartial analysis

The following impartial analysis of the measure was prepared by the office of the Contra Costa

County Counsel:

The governing board of the Pittsburg Unified School District has adopted a resolution
proposing a parcel tax (a qualified special tax).

This ballot measure asks voters to decide whether a parcel tax should be imposed on
parcels of taxable real property within the District for seven years, beginning July 1,

2017. The proposed tax would expire June 30, 2024.

The tax would apply to each parcel of taxable real property in the District. The annual
tax would be $91 per taxable parcel. A parcel of taxable real property is any unit of real
property in the District that receives a separate tax bill for property taxes from the
Contra Costa County Treasurer-Tax Collector’s Office. The tax would be adjusted
annually, commencing July 1, 2018, to account for the impact of inflation as
determined by District’s Board of Education, to an amount limited to $6 per year. A
parcel otherwise exempt from property taxes will also be exempt from the imposition
of the parcel tax.

//

The ballot measure includes certain exemptions. Upon proper application to the
District, the District may exempt any parcel from the parcel tax that is (1) owned and

occupied as a principal residence by a person 65 years of age or older; (2) owned and
occupied as a principal residence by a person receiving Supplemental Security Income
for a disability; or (3) owned and occupied as a principal residence by a person
receiving Social Security Disability Insurance benefits, whose yearly income does not
exceed 250 percent of the 2012 federal poverty guidelines issued by the United States
Department of Health and Human Services.

The ballot measure states that the proceeds of the parcel tax will be used to provide “a
stable, local funding source for art, music and athletic essential program equipment and
materials, to attract and retain highly qualified teachers and staff, [and] to enhance and
expand access to art, music and athletic programs.” Proceeds from the parcel tax may
be used only for the specific purposes set forth in the ballot measure and according to
constitutional and statutory provisions.

State law requires the District’s chief fiscal officer to file an annual report with the
District’s Board of Education that states the amounts of funds received and expended in
each year and the status of any projects required or authorized to be funded from the
parcel tax proceeds. The proceeds from the parcel tax will be deposited into a District
account that will be kept separate from other District accounts. Parcel tax funds will be
the subject of an annual independent financial audit, which shall be made public.

Two-thirds of those voting on the ballot measure must approve the measure for it to
pass.

A “Yes” vote is a vote in favor of authorizing the parcel tax for a seven-year period of
time.

A “No” vote is a vote against authorizing the parcel tax for a seven-year period of time.

121

—Contra Costa County Counsel151