Santa Paula, California, Sales Tax,
Measure T (November 2016)

Ballot question

The following question appeared on the ballot:m

// Shall a General Sales Tax Ordinance be adopted imposing a one cent (.01)
transactions and use (sales) tax for a period of twenty (20) years, generating
approximately $2.1 million annually, to improve police and fire services with
the remainder devoted to street repair, youth programs and the provision of
other city services? m

Impartial Analysis by City Attorney

Measure T was placed on the ballot by the City Council and proposes to increase the sales tax within Santa Paula by one cent. California law
requires that an increase in the tax be approved by a majority of the voters in Santa Paula.

The tax on retail sales in Santa Paula is currently 7.5 percent of the purchase price. The one cent increase proposed by Measure T would authorize
a one cent transactions and use tax, increasing the total sales tax rate in Santa Paula from 7.5 percent to 8.5 percent. All revenue from the tax
increase proposed by Measure T would go to the City, and not to the State or any other governmental entity. The total tax rate will decrease by one
cent in 2036 as a result of a sunset provision in the proposed measure.

Measure T would be a “general tax,” meaning that all revenue generated from the proposed sales tax increase would be deposited into the City’s
General Fund and would be available for use by the City to pay for general City operations and services, including Police and Fire Services, street
repair, and youth programs. The City, however, would not be legally bound in any way to use the tax monies for any special purpose or for any
particular facilities or programs. Since this ballot measure proposes a “general tax” rather than a “special purpose tax,” it requires approval by a
simple majority of the City’s voters.

The tax ordinance requires a five member citizen commission comprised of members appointed by the City Council to annually review and audit
expenditures of revenues derived from the sales tax. The report issued by the citizen commission is a public record and must be considered by the
City Council at a public meeting.

A “yes” vote on Measure T favors increasing the sales tax by one cent.

A “no” vote on Measure T opposes an increase in the sales tax.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure T. If you desire a copy of the ordinance or measure, please call the City Clerk’s office at
(805) 933-4200 and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you.

Argument in Favor of Measure T

Santa Paula is rich in culture and history, and we all know that it is a special place to live. We also know that it faces many challenges.

We must come together and act now to help move our city forward into a better and brighter future while preserving our strong sense of
community. To do that, we need more funding for public safety services, fixing our streets, and youth programs. No one else is going to “bail us
out.” The choice is clear: we want and deserve a better future and we will only get there by helping ourselves.

We need to invest in Santa Paula! Our efforts as a community, along with a one-cent sales tax, will help solve the problem. Most of us, when we
see a penny on the ground, ignore it, yet those pennies add up. For one penny on the dollar we can start making the improvements we need.

The proposed one-cent sales tax is a general tax measure for improved police and fire services, street repair, and youth programs. This will allow
us to hire more police officers, stabilize funding for the fire department, fix our pothole-riddled streets and create youth programs to steer our kids
away from crime. There are no sales taxes on food, medicine or services. A newly created Citizen’s Oversight Committee will assure that the
money is spent properly and hold the City Council accountable.

We can make a difference! Working together as one community we can create a better place for us all. It is up to each of us to keep our special,
people-friendly Santa Paula moving forward so we can live and enjoy our families with pride.

Together we can “Transform Santa Paula a Penny at a Time!”

We urge you to vote Yes on Measure “T”.

s/Kelsey Stewart	s/Alfonso A. Guilin	s/Elvia Hernandez	s/Carlos Juarez	s/Raymond Mora

School Board Trustee, Santa Paula Unified Ag Consultant	Project Coordinator	SPPD Lieutenant (Ret)	SPYFL - Directors

56-587

N VE 086-051

Argument Against Measure T

The City Council of Santa Paula has failed to do its job. Because of this failure they are now proposing a new sales tax of $60,000,000 on the
people of Santa Paula. With the passage in June of measure "P" a $79,000,000.00 school bond and the proposed county sales tax measure with a
cost of over $30,000,000.00 the tax payers of Santa Paula are facing record tax increase in 2016 and the current Council believes taking more of
your money is just fine.

Do not be fooled by the claims that the City does not have the funding it needs for public safety. The funds are there but, the Council has failed to
properly budget for public safety.

The Council promises to use the additional taxes collected to fund public safety but, because this is a general sales tax it only takes 3 votes by the
Council to spend general fund revenue any way they want. The Council has proposed a oversite committee which will have NO official authority to
determine where the additional taxes are to be spent. Again 3 votes by the Council can and will determine where all general sales taxes will be
spent

It appears that the firefighters union is happy to trust the Council with the new tax income as they have donated $10,000.00 to pass the tax
increase on all of us.

Force the City Council to do its job. We do need more police officers, but taking more of our hard earned money is not the solution. The council
must have the political will to do what is in the best interest of ALL Santa Paula tax payers.

VOTE NO ON MEASURE T

s/Steve Smead
Business Owner

Rebuttal to Argument Against Measure T

Santa Claus is not coming to town to bring us more police officers, to fix our deteriorated streets or provide needed youth programs and funding for
our fire department. There is no big bag of money to solve our problems. The simple fact is that if we want an end to potholes and a safer, cleaner
Santa Paula, we need to help ourselves. For pennies a day from each of us - not millions of dollars - we can start to solve these long-standing
problems.

Santa Paula's economic woes began a long time ago and have grown over the last twenty-five years, through at least 12 different city councils.
Staff, police and basic services have been cut to a bare minimum for a number of years. The public works money we have is being used to
prevent catastrophes from happening with very old sewer and water lines, rather than maintaining the rest of our streets. If Measure T does not
pass, all we can do is continue to cut necessary services and do without. The new Citizen’s Oversight committee WILL hold the Council
accountable.

This City Council has given the public the opportunity to decide if we want a better community for ourselves and our children. We can invest in our
future and “Transform Santa Paula a Penny at a Time” starting now. For a few pennies a day, working together, we can make a difference! Please
vote Yes on Measure “T”.

s/James A. Fogata	s/Richard Araiza	s/Donna L. Nelson	s/Gary L. Nasalroad	s/Ulises Valenzuela

Police Sergeant	Fire Chief	SPUSD - Music Resource	Pres. Santa Paula Police &	President SP Team

Specialist	Fire	Foundation	Bd.	Clutch Baseball

56-588

N VE 086-052