ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE S  Vote Yes on S - keep gangs, crime and drugs out of Hanford!  Did you know Sacramento politicians released more than 200 new parolees in our Citv? We need Yes on S to improve and expand aana suppression and prevention programs and crack down on drug dealing and drug related crimes! And did you know that Hanford has less than half the number of firefighters recommended for a city our size? Slow response times limit our ability to plan for disasters and conduct fire safety investigations— vote Yes on S to hire more firefighters to save lives!  Hanford’s population has more than doubled in the past 30 years, but the budget for our services-like police, fire, and street safety/maintenance—hasn’t kept pace. Yes on S provides LOCALLY-CONTROLLED funding for services such as:  •	Investigating violent crimes, such as rape and domestic violence  •	Maintaining neighborhood police patrols  •	Improving Police and Fire Protection  •	Repairing deteriorating streets and roads for safety  Yes on S also improves our road safety! Hanford’s budget is millions of dollars short of what it needs to maintain our 216 miles of city streets. Nearly half of our streets are already rated “poor.” or worse. Yes on S provides funding to improve for safety for emergency vehicles, motorists and pedestrians while addressing critical road repairs before they become even more expensive. Yes on S includes strong fiscal accountability, with annual audits and Independent Citizens Oversiaht to monitor spendina. auaranteeina funds are spent responsibly and as promised. By law. Yes on S requires every dime be used for local services. Well know how and where the money is spent, and Sacramento politicians can’t touch it!  Join local Police Officers, Firefighters, business and community leaders - vote Yes on S to protect and maintain local services. Visit www.cityofhanfordca.com for factual information.  The undersigned proponents or authors of the primary argument in favor of ballot Measure S at the General Election for the City of Hanford to be held on November 4, 2014, hereby state that such argument is true and correct to the best of their knowledge and belief.  s/Christifer Barker Hanford Police Officers Association s/ Derek Weisser Hanford Firefighters Association s/ Faith Rose Neighborhood Watch Member s/ Norm Boyles Retiree and 53 year Hanford resident and taxpayer s/ Linda Silveira 26 year Local Small Business Owner	REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE S  Enouah political rhetoric and funnv math! Vote Yes on S to keep Sacramento politicians away from our money and our services! Don’t be fooled-Yes on S keeps Hanford SAFE!  FACT: National standards for fire and medical emergency response call for response to call within five minutes, 90% of the time. Hanford Fire can only respond promptlv 23% of the time-Vote YES on S so first responders reach your family when you need them!  FACT: Sacramento politicians released more than 200 new parolees into Hanford. There are at least five known criminal street gangs operating in our region, including the notorious Nortenos, Surenos and Crips. YES on S stops gangs and gang-related crimes.  FACT: Since 2009, rapes are up 94% and thefts are up 34% in Hanford. YES on S expands police protection services to fiaht thefts and violent crime.  FACT: YES on S includes touah Fiscal Accountabilitv safeauards-we’ll all know where the money is spent!  •	Sacramento bureaucrats and politicians won’t be able to spend a dime of this money. By law, Measure S requires that every penny be spent here in Hanford, for OUR local services.  •	An Independent Citizen’s Oversight Committee of Hanford residents will monitor all spending and issue public reports for the community’s review.  •	Measure S requires independent, annual financial audits and public review of expenditures.  Protect Hanford’s lives, safety and quality of life services - vote YES on S!  The undersigned proponents or authors of the rebuttal argument to the argument against ballot Measure S at the General Election for the City of Hanford to be held on November 4, 2014, hereby state that such argument is true and correct to the best of their knowledge and belief.  s/Christifer Barker, Hanford Police Officers Association s/Derek Weisser, Hanford Firefighters Association s/Faith Rose, Neighborhood Watch Member s/Norm Boyles, Retiree and 53 year Hanford resident and taxpayer s/Linda Silveira, 26 year Local Small Business Owner
ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE S  Vote against the added 1 cent Hanford sales tax.  Hanford has always lived with its means. When tax dollars come into the general fund, they are used to improve the quality of life for the citizens of Hanford. (Balanced budget)  This tax is not sustainable. The Hanford City Council proposes this 1 cent sales tax increase for a period of 20 years. They tell us the new tax will raise $160,000,000.00 over 20 years and will then expire. If Hanford’s growth continues, the tax will raise $240,000,000.00; and if you believe that the tax will expire, you are mistaken.  We are told the $240,000,000.00 will be used for a police station, fire stations and employees to man them. 30 new employees will cost $3,000,000.00 per year and will continue to cost about that much when employees retire. If they work for 25 years, they probably are retired for at least 25 years. So the real cost of 30 employees is $6,000,000.00 per year of active employment, and we will have that cost long after the “expiration” of the tax increase.  Political tricks are common. This particular trick is tried and true. If a city wants to increase sales tax, all they have to do is mention Public Safety. They use all the right buzz words, such as response times, drugs, gangs, etc. Don’t fall for it. Our politicians want to double the City’s share of sales tax. Don’t let them do it.  This is a General Sales Tax and not a Specific Sales Tax. The money can be used for anything (salary increase) they don’t have to improve Public Safety. There are other options to consider. Vote NO on Measure S and lets work together to solve Hanford’s issues.  s/ Dan Chin  August 15, 2014	REBUTTAL AGAINST THE ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE S  Those in favor of measure S want to blame Sacramento for all of Hanford’s problems. Local spending and local priorities are set by five elected Hanford city Council members. The problem is not Sacramento politicians but Hanford’s own city Council. The city Council dictates local spending and local priorities. This city Council spending and wasting taxpayer dollars is the issue. Local public safety employees tell you we need this 1% sales tax to hire more police and firefighters. But this is a general fund sales tax with no guarantees that any of the money raised will be spent on public safety. 100% of the sales tax is under the control of the Hanford city Council and can be spent on anything they choose to spend it on. Those in favor of measure S say you will have local control over spending annual audits and citizen oversight. We have these things already. All this measure does is raise local taxes. The question is do you trust your local elected officials to make the right choices. Over the last four years spending has been the problem not revenues. The current city Council has granted raises to all city employees over the last few years. What the city of Hanford needs is better leadership on the Council and better management at City Hall. If this sales tax is approved it will double the amount of local sales tax for discretionary spending. Vote No on measure S, vote No on more taxes, s/ Dan Chin  August 25, 2014

16-507

16507