AUG 0 3 2016

RAR OF VOTERS

DEPUTY

ORDINANCE NO.

i»ii- » unubiviMU IP<vJ II lUfYlLfV I ion

CORRECT COPY OF THE ORIGINAL
ON FILE IN THIS OFFICE.

TOWf^LOF YUCCA VALLEY, CALIFORNIA
—?n //:

AN ORDINANCE OF THE PEOPLE OF THE TOWN OF
YUCCA VALLEY ADDING CHAPTER 3.26 TO THE
YUCCA VALLEY MUNICIPAL CODE IMPOSING A
TEMPORARY TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX TO BE
ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE BOARD OF
EQUALIZATION, SUBJECT TO APPROVAL OF A
MAJORITY OF THE ELECTORS VOTING ON THE TAX
MEASURE AT THE GENERAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION
TO BE HELD ON TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 2016.

WHEREAS, Article XIIIC, Section 2 of the California Constitution authorizes a city to
impose a general tax if approved by a majority vote of the qualified electors; and

WHEREAS, Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the California
Revenue and Taxation Code, and Section 7285.9 of the California Revenue and Taxation Code,
authorizes a city to adopt a transactions and use (sales) tax ordinance, which shall be operative if
a majority of the electors voting on the measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax at an
election called for that purpose; and

WHEREAS, the Town has heard a great deal from the community about their desire for
better local services, especially public safety and streets and pothole repair; and

WHEREAS, the Citizens for Lower Sewer Costs Committee, along with other
community members and town staff, have concluded that the best option available to the Town
to address local town service needs is a one-half cent sales tax measure; and

WHEREAS, the Citizens for Lower Sewer Costs Committee recommends the Town
Council place a one-half cent sales tax measure for local town services on the November 2016
ballot for voters’ consideration; and

WHEREAS, if approved, the proposed Town services measure will provide Yucca
Valley with locally-controlled funding for Town services that are protected by law from
Sacramento; and

WHEREAS, Town streets are underfunded and they are continuing to deteriorate; and

WHEREAS, more and more parolees and sex offenders are being released early into the
local community because of state cuts to prisons, which may threaten public safety in our Town
and neighborhoods; and

WHEREAS, local Town service priorities include preventing violent crimes,
maintaining youth violence prevention and gang intervention programs, supporting fire
protection services, providing additional police officers and neighborhood patrols, fixing streets
and potholes, and providing ongoing street maintenance; and

WHEREAS, the proposed Town services measure requires an independent taxpayers'
oversight committee, mandatory financial audits, and yearly reports to the community to ensure
the funds are spent as promised; and

WHEREAS, many of the Town's neighborhood streets and roads are deteriorated and
riddled with cracks, pot holes, loss of structural base, and other characteristics of asphalt
deterioration. These deteriorated road conditions are exacerbated by the fact that there are many
other streets that are unpaved, or located on steep hillsides, wash-out zones or otherwise
regularly subjected to extreme weather conditions inherent to the desert environment. While the
Town has made major improvements to a number of streets, additional funds are needed to
address streets that are in the worst condition; and

WHEREAS, the Town estimates a deferred maintenance liability of approximately
$14 million on Town maintained roads. There is currently no identified funding source to
sufficiently address this community need; and

WHEREAS, over the last several years, there has been an increase in crime rates, an
increase in the number of calls for police services and an increase in crime in the Town of Yucca
Valley, with burglaries increasing 113% in 2015 from the prior year. Nonetheless, the level of
police services for the Town has remained the same since 2009 due to constraints on the Town’s
General Fund, which is the source of funding for police services; and

WHEREAS, Town citizens repeatedly rank general services, like public safety and street
maintenance, as their top priorities. However, no sufficiently reliable sources of revenue exist to
address the Town of Yucca Valley's critical infrastructure and general service needs, while
maintaining the Town’s long-term financial viability. Sacramento money grabs and unfunded
state mandates continually threaten funding for local services, impacting our quality of life. A
local general tax, however, is a guaranteed source of local funding that cannot be taken by
Sacramento and requires that our tax dollars are spent locally for Town residents; and

WHEREAS, the Town of Yucca Valley has worked diligently to reduce expenditures by
modifying or eliminating various Town programs; reducing employee salary costs and reducing
non-public safety staff by almost 20% since 2008, and critically examining all expenditures; and

WHEREAS, the Town of Yucca Valley has implemented local pension reform
measures, including a reduced-benefit pension program for new employees and requiring all
employees to pay their share towards retirement costs, resulting in significant savings to
taxpayers; and

WHEREAS, as stated in presentations by the Joshua Tree National Park, millions of
visitors come to the Town of Yucca Valley each year to shop, use local services and traverse the
Town as a gateway to the Joshua Tree National Park. To date, no fiscal measures have been
taken to ensure that these visitors contribute a fair share for their use of local services, including
their use of roads, sidewalks, parks, police and other services they use when they visit the Town;
and

WHEREAS, the Town Council received valuable input from the community through the
Town’s Strategic Planning Outreach activities in support of identifying alternative revenue

solutions, and was approached by the Citizen’s for Lower Sewer Costs seeking ways to maintain
essential Town services and lower sewer costs for Town property owners, and received positive
responses from the community in the April 2016 Community Needs Survey indicating potential
support for a local revenue measure or measures; and

WHEREAS, a local revenue measure would give Yucca Valley local control over local
funds, for local community priorities including but not limited to, maintaining neighborhood
police patrols and 911 response, maintaining and repairing existing neighborhood streets and
alleys, and maintaining community requested quality of life programming such as the Town’s
aquatics program, seniors site programming, and other community participant programming; and

WHEREAS, by taking this step, keeping the Town safe, crime rates low, emergency
response times low for all areas of the Town, keeping the Town well maintained with critical
public facility infrastructure and maintaining desired quality of life programming, the Town can
protect property values and preserve the Town’s small town atmosphere; and

WHEREAS, as a solution to the fiscal constraints on general services, the Town Council
desires to submit to the voters a proposal to enact a one-half cent per dollar (i.e., 0.5%)
transaction and use tax for a period of ten (10) years in the Town of Yucca Valley, with the funds
to be deposited in the Town's General Fund and be used for general Town purposes and services,
including but not limited to police and crime prevention, fire protection, paramedic and 911
emergency response services, street repair and maintenance, graffiti prevention and abatement,
anti-gang activities and other quality of life programs; and

WHEREAS, funds from this proposed measure are subject to strict fiscal accountability
and transparency provisions, including amiual independent audits, review by a citizens’ oversight
committee, and the publishing of expenditure reports to confirm that funds are spent efficiently
and effectively; and

WHEREAS, California Constitution Article XIIIC, Section 2, provides that any general
tax must be submitted to the electorate and approved by a majority vote of the electorate; and

WHEREAS, California Constitution Article XIIIC, Section 2, provides that an election
regarding a general tax must be consolidated with a regularly-scheduled general municipal
election for members of the Town Council; and

WHEREAS, a general municipal election on Tuesday, November 8, 2016, has been
called by Resolution No. 16-15, adopted on June 7, 2016; and

WHEREAS, on the basis of the foregoing, following a public hearing on August 2, 2016,
the Town Council determines it is appropriate to place a measure before the voters at the
November 8, 2016, general municipal election regarding adoption of a Town transactions and
use tax.

NOW THEREFORE, on the basis of the foregoing, the People of the Town of Yucca
Valley at the November 8, 2016, general municipal election do hereby Ordain as follows:

SECTION I. A new Chapter 3.26 is hereby added to the Yucca Valley Municipal Code
to read as follows:

“Chapter 3.26”

TEMPORARY TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX
3.26.010: SHORT TITLE:

This Chapter shall be known as the Town of Yucca Valley Essential Services
Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance. This Chapter shall be applicable only in the
incorporated territory of the Town.

3.26.020: BASIC DEFINITIONS:

As used in this Chapter, "Town" means the Town of Yucca Valley and "tax"
means the temporary transactions and use tax (general tax) imposed under the
provisions of this Chapter.

3.26.030: OPERATIVE DATE:

"Operative Date" means the first day that the tax is imposed. The “operative
date” means the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing more than 110
days after the effective date of this Chapter, such effective date being as set forth
below.

3.26.040: PURPOSE:

This Chapter is adopted to achieve the following, among other purposes,
and directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish those
purposes:

A.	To impose a temporary retail transactions and use tax in
accordance with the provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code and Section 7285.9 of Part 1.7 of
Division 2, which authorizes the Town to adopt this tax ordinance which shall be
operative only if a majority of the electors voting on the measure vote to approve
the imposition of the tax at an election called for that purpose.

B.	To adopt a temporary retail transactions and use tax (general tax)
ordinance that incorporates provisions identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax
Law of the State of California insofar as those provisions are not inconsistent with
the requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a temporary retail transactions and use tax ordinance that
imposes a general tax and provides a measure therefore that may be administered
and collected by the State Board of Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as
fully as practicable to, and requires the least possible deviation from, the existing
statutory and administrative procedures followed by the State Board of
Equalization in administering and collecting the California State Sales and Use
Taxes.

D.	To adopt a temporary retail transactions and use tax ordinance that
may be administered in a manner that will be, to the greatest degree possible,
consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting the transactions and use taxes, and
at the same time, minimize the burden of record keeping upon persons subject to
taxation under the provisions of this ordinance.

3.26.050: CONTRACT WITH STATE:

Prior to the operative date, the Town shall contract with the State Board of
Equalization to perform all functions incident to the administration and operation
of this transactions and use tax ordinance; provided however, that if the Town
shall not have contracted with the State Board of Equalization prior to the
operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract and in such a case the operative
date shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter following the execution of
such a contract.

3.26.060: IMPOSITION OF TRANSACTIONS TAX; TRANSACTIONS TAX
RATE:

For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax is hereby
imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated territory of the Town at the rate of
one-half cent per dollar (0.5%) of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale
of all tangible personal property sold at retail in said territory on and after the
operative date of this Chapter.

3.26.070: PLACE OF SALE:

For the purposes of this Chapter, all retail sales are consummated at the place of
business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is delivered by
the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for
delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall
include delivery charges, when such charges are subject to the State sales and use
tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has
no permanent place of business in the State or has more than one place of
business, the place or places at which the retail sales are consummated shall be
determined under rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the State
Board of Equalization.

3.26.080: USE TAX RATE:

An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other consumption in the
Town of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on and after the
operative date of this Chapter for storage, use or other consumption in said
territory at the rate of one-half cent per dollar (0.5%) of the sales price of the
property. The sales price shall include delivery charges when such charges are
subject to State sales or use tax regardless of the place to which delivery is made.

3.26.090: PROCEEDS OF TAX:

The proceeds of the transactions and use tax imposed by this Chapter shall be
deposited into the General Fund of the Town to be used for all general
government purposes which may include, but are not limited to, fire and police
protection, street and sidewalk repair and maintenance, library services, park
repair and maintenance, recreational programs, building and code enforcement
services, planning and zoning services, capital equipment requirements, public
infrastructure, utilities and sewer systems, repair and replacement of Town
facilities, capital improvement projects, operational expenses, fiduciary
responsibilities, administration, indebtedness and general obligations of the Town.
The tax imposed by this Chapter is intended to be and is, a general tax, the
proceeds of which are to be spent as the Town Council shall in its discretion, from
time to time, determine.

3.26.100: ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW:

Except as otherwise provided in this Chapter and except insofar as they are
inconsistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a part
of this Chapter as though fully set forth herein.

3.26.110:	LIMITATIONS	ON	ADOPTION	OF	STATE	LAW	AND

COLLECTION OF USE TAXES:

In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the
taxing agency, the name of the Town shall be substituted therefore. However, the
substitution shall not be made when:

1.	The word "State" is used as a part of the title of the State
Controller, State Treasurer, State Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or the
Constitution of the State of California.

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be
taken by or against this Town or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather
than by or against the State Board of Equalization, in performing the functions
incident to the administration or operation of this Chapter.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to,
sections referring to the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the
result of the substitution would be to:

i.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to
certain sales, storage, use or other consumption of
tangible personal property, which would not otherwise
be exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use
or other consumption remain subject to tax by the State
under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, or

ii.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage,
use or other consumption of tangible personal property,
which would not be subject to tax by the State under the
said provision of that code.

4.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof),
6711, 6715, 6737, 6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

B.	The word "Town" shall be substituted for the word "State" in the
phrase "retailer engaged in business in this State" in Section 6203 and in the
definition of that phrase in Section 6203 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

3.26.120: PERMIT NOT REQUIRED:

If a seller's permit has been issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code, an additional transactor's permit shall not be required by this
Chapter.

3.26.130: EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS:

A.	There shall be excluded from the calculation of the transactions tax
and the use tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of
California or by any city, city and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-
Bums Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the amount of any State-
administered transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of
transactions tax the gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or
petroleum products, to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally
outside the county in which the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the
use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property under the authority
of the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the Town which is
shipped to a point outside the Town, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery
to such point by the retailer or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier
for shipment to a consignee at such point. For the purposes of this paragraph,
delivery to a point outside the Town shall be satisfied:

i.	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial
vehicles) subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1
(commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the
Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with
Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and
undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5
(commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code
by registration to an out-of-Town address and by a
declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the
buyer, stating that such address is, in fact, his or her
principal place of residence; and

ii.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to
a place of business out-of-Town and declaration under
penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, that the vehicle
will be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is
obligated to furnish the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered
into prior to the operative date of this Chapter.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing
sale of such property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to
lease the property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of
this Chapter.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this
section, the sale or lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be
obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any
party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract
or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this Chapter, the
storage, use or other consumption in this Town of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject
to a transactions tax under any State-administered transactions and use tax
ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by
operators of aircraft and used or consumed by such operators directly and
exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property

for hire or compensation under a certificate of public convenience and necessity
issued pursuant to the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign
government. This exemption is in addition to the exemptions provided in
Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of
California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a
fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this
Chapter.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power
over, the tangible personal property arises under a lease which is a continuing
purchase of such property for any period of time for which the lessee is obligated
to lease the property for an amount fixed by a lease prior to the operative date of
this Chapter.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this
section, storage, use, or other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any
right or power over, tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be
obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any
party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract
or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged
in business in the Town shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser
of tangible personal property, unless the retailer ships or delivers the property into
the Town or participates within the Town in making the sale of the property,
including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving the order, either directly or
indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer in the Town or through any
representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the Town under
the authority of the retailer.

7.	"A retailer engaged in business in the Town" shall also
include any retailer of any of the following: vehicles subject to registration
pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the
Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public
Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5
(commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be
required to collect use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the
vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the Town.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this chapter may credit against
that tax any transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a
district imposing, or retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code with respect to the sale to the
person of the property the storage, use or other consumption of which is subject to
the use tax.

3.26.140: CHANGES IN LAW:

All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this Chapter to Part 1 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and
which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part of this
Chapter, provided however, that no such amendment shall operate so as to affect
the rate of tax imposed by this Chapter.

3.26.150: ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN:

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in
any suit, action or proceeding in any court against the State or the Town, or
against any officer of the State or the Town, to prevent or enjoin the collection
under this Chapter, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code,
of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.

3.26.160: ANNUAL AUDIT:

The proceeds resulting from this Transactions and Use Tax shall be deposited into
the Town's General Fund and become subject to the same independent annual
audit requirements as other General Fund revenue.

3.26.170: CITIZEN OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE:

An Independent Citizens’ Oversight Committee appointed by the Town Council
shall review the expenditures of revenues generated by the tax imposed by this
Chapter and make the results of such review publicly available. Such Committee
shall meet and be subject to all provisions of the Ralph M. Brown Act,
Government Code Sections 54950 et seq.

3.26.180: ALL FUNDS STAYING LOCAL:

All tax revenues collected under the authority of this Chapter shall be expended
solely on local municipal services, and shall not be used for any other purposes.

3.26.190: EFFECTIVE DATE:

This Chapter levying the tax described herein shall be effective ten (10) days after
the date on which the Town Council has declared that the voters of the Town of
Yucca Valley have approved the Chapter by a vote of no less than a majority of
the votes cast by the electors voting on the tax measure set forth in this Chapter at
that general municipal election to be held on Tuesday, November 8, 2016.

3.26.200: TERMINATION DATE:

The authority to levy the tax imposed by this Chapter shall expire ten (10) years
from the operative date.

3.26.210: PENALTIES:

Without limiting any remedies available at law or equity, any person violating any
of the provisions of this Chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.

3.26.211: AMENDMENTS:

The tax rate in this Chapter may only be increased by a vote of the people of the
Town of Yucca Valley; provided, however, that the Town Council may amend
this Chapter to reduce the amount of the tax authorized herein or to otherwise
implement or advance the purpose and intent of this Chapter.”

SECTION 2. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this ordinance or
the application thereof to any person or circumstance is for any reason held to be invalid, such
decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this ordinance. The People of
the Town of Yucca Valley hereby declared that they would have passed each subsection,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause, or phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one
or more subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause, or phrase be declared
unconstitutional.

SECTION 3. The adoption of this ordinance is not a "project" subject to the
requirements of the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) (Public Resources Code
Section §§ 21000 et seq.). CEQA Guideline 15378(b)(4) provides that the creation of
government funding mechanisms or other government fiscal activities that do not involve any
commitment to a specific project that may result in a potentially significant physical impact on
the environment are not projects subject to the requirements of CEQA.

I hereby certify that Ordinance No._was passed, approved and adopted by the People

of the Town of Yucca Valley, California, voting on the 8th day of November, 2016.

MAYOR

ATTEST:

TOWN CLERK

Ordinance No._____was submitted to the People of the Town of Yucca Valley at the

November 8, 2016, general municipal election. It was approved by the following vote of the
electors:

YES:________

NO:



State of California )

County of San Bernardino)

Town of Yucca Valley )

I,	Lesley Copeland, Clerk of the Town of Yucca Valley, do hereby certify that the
foregoing Ordinance was approved for placement on the ballot at the regular meeting of the
Town of Yucca Valley Town Council on the 2nd day of August, 2016, and was passed by the
following vote:

AYES:

NOES:

ABSTAIN:

ABSENT:

Lesley Copeland, Town Clerk