ORDINANCE 2016-726

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF FORTUNA ADDING CHAPTER 3.13 TO TITLE 3 OF
THE FORTUNA MUNICIPAL CODE TO LEVY A LOCAL, CITY OF FORTUNA
TRANSACTIONS AND USE (SALES) TAX TO BE ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE BOARD

OF EQUALIZATION

The People of the City of Fortuna do ordain as follows:

SECTION 1. ADDITION TO THE MUNICIPAL CODE. Chapter 3.13 is added to Title 3 of the
Fortuna Municipal Code to read as follows:

CHAPTER 3.13: FORTUNA POLICE AND ESSENTIAL SERVICES TRANSACTION AND
USE (SALES) TAX.

Section 3.13.010. TITLE. This Chapter shall be known as the “Fortuna Police and
Essential Services Measure Transactions and Use (Sales) Tax Ordinance.” The City of
Fortuna hereinafter shall be called “City.” This chapter shall be applicable in the
incorporated territory of the City.

Section 3.13.020. OPERATIVE DATE. “Operative Date” means the first day of
the first calendar quarter commencing more than 110 days after the adoption of this
ordinance and approval by the voters.

Section 3.13.030. PURPOSE. This chapter is adopted to achieve the following,
among other purposes, and directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to
accomplish those purposes:

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the
provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code and Section 7285.9 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 which authorizes the City to
adopt this tax ordinance which shall be operative if a majority of the electors voting on
the measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax at an election called for that
purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transaction and use tax ordinance that incorporates
provisions identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California
insofar as those provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and limitations
contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax
and provides a measure therefore that can be administered and collected by the State
Board of Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and requires
the least possible deviation from, the existing statutory and administrative procedures
followed by the State Board of Equalization in administering and collection of the
California State Sales and Use Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be
administered in a manner that will be, to the greatest degree possible, consistent with the
provision of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost
of collecting the transactions and use taxes, and at the same time, minimize the burden of
record keeping upon persons subject to taxation under the provisions of this chapter.

Section 3.13.040. CONTRACT WITH STATE. Prior to the Operative Date, the
City shall contract with the State Board of Equalization to perform all functions incident
to the administration and operation of this transactions and use tax chapter; provided, that
if the City shall not have contracted with the State Board of Equalization prior to
operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract and in such a case the Operative Date
shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter following the execution of such a
contract.

Section 3.13.050. TRANSACTIONS TAX RATE. For the privilege of selling
tangible personal property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in the
incorporated territory of the City at the rate of three-quarter percent per dollar (0.75%) of
the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible personal property sold at
retail in said territory on and after the Operative Date of this chapter.

Section 3.13.060. PLACE OF SALE. For the purposes of this chapter, all
retail sales are consummated at the place of business of the retailer unless the tangible
personal property sold is delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state
destination or to a common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross
receipts from sales include delivery charges, when such charges are subject to the state
sales and use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is made. In the event a retailer
has no permanent place of business in the State or has more than one place of business,
the place or places at which the retail sales are consummated shall be determined under
rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the State Board of Equalization.

Section 3.13.070. USE TAX RATE. An excise tax is hereby imposed on the
storage, use or other consumption in the City of tangible personal property purchased
from any retailer on and after the Operative Date of this chapter for storage, use or other
consumption in said territory at the rate of three quarter percent per dollar (0.75%) of the
sales price of the property. The sales price shall include delivery charges when such
charges are subject to state sales or use tax regardless of the place to which delivery is
made.

Section 3.13.080. ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW. Except as
otherwise provided in this chapter and except insofar as they are inconsistent with the
provision of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the
provisions of Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a part of this chapter as though fully set
forth herein.

Section 3.13.090. LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF STATE LAW AND
COLLECTION OF USE TAXES. In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing
agency, the name of this City shall be substituted therefore. Flowever, the substitution
shall not be made when:

1.	The word “State” is used as a part of the title of the State
Controller, State Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Board of Equalization, State
Treasury, or the Constitution of the State of California.

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken

by or	against	this	City or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by or

against the State Board of Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the
administration or operation of this chapter.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to

sections	referring to the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the result of

the substitution would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to
certain sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property which
would not otherwise be exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other
consumption remain subject to tax by the State under the provision of Part 1 of Division 2
of the Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use
or other consumption of tangible personal property which would not be subject to tax by
the state under the said provision of that code.

4.	In sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof),
6711, 6715, 6737, 6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

B.	The word “City” shall be substituted for the word “State” in the phrase
“retailer engaged in business in this State” in Section 6203 and in the definition of that
phrase in Section 6203.

Section 3.13.100. PERMIT NOT REQUIRED. If a seller’s permit has been issued
to a retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional
transactor’s permit shall not be required by this chapter.

Section 3.13.110. EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the
use tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or by
any city, city and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales
and Use Tax Law or the amount of any state-administered transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions
tax the gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum
products, to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the county in
which the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common
carriers of persons or property under the authority of the laws of this State, the United
States, or any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the City which is shipped to
a point outside the City, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by the
retailer or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee
at such point. For the purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point outside the City
shall be satisfied:

a.	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial
vehicles) subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000)
of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 2141 I of
the Public Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels registered under Chapter 2 of
Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration to an
out-of-City address and by a declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer,
stating that such address is, in fact, his or her principal place of residence; and

b.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a
place of business out-of-City and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the
buyer, that the vehicle will be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to
furnish the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the
operative date of this chapter.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale
of such property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the
property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of this chapter.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, the
sale or lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to
a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has
the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such
right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this chapter, the
storage, use or other consumption in this City of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a
transaction tax under any state-administered transactions and use tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of
aircraft and used or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the use of
such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under a
certificate of public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this State,
the United States, or any foreign government. This exemption is in addition to the
exemptions provided in Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of
the State of California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed
price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the Operative Date of this chapter.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over,
the tangible property arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such property
for any period of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the property for an
amount fixed by a lease prior to the Operative date of this chapter.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section,
storage, use, or other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power
over, tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a
contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has

the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such
right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in
business in the City shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible
personal property, unless the retailer ships or delivers the property into the City or
participates within the City in making the sale of the property, including, but not limited
to, soliciting or receiving the order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of business of
retailer in the City or through any representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary,
or person in the City under the authority of the retailer.

7.	“A retailer engaged in business in the City” shall also include
any retailer of any of the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1
(commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in
compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels
registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code.
That retailer shall be required to collect use tax from any purchaser who registers or
licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the City.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this chapter may credit against that
tax any transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district imposing,
or retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code with respect to the sale to the person of the property the storage, use
or other consumption of which is subject to the use tax.

Section 3.13.120. AMENDMENTS. All amendments subsequent to the
effective date of this ordinance to Part I of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code
relating to sales and use taxes and which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part
1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part of
this chapter, provided however, that no such amendment shall operate so as to affect the
rate of tax imposed by this chapter.

Section 3.13.130. ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN. No injunction or
writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit, action or
proceeding in any court against the State or City or against any officer of the State or the
City, to prevent or enjoin the collection under this chapter, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to collected.

Section 3.13.140	SEVERABILITY.	If any provision of this ordinance or the

application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the
ordinance and the application of such provision to other persons or circumstances shall
not be affected thereby.

Section 3.13.150	USE OF TAX PROCEEDS. All proceeds of the tax levied

and imposed under this chapter shall be paid into the General Fund for use by the City of
Fortuna.

Section 3.13.170	INDEPENDENT	ANNUAL	AUDIT.	Annually	the	City Council

retains an independent auditor to conduct an audit of and provide audited financial
statements for all of the City’s financial activities. The auditor shall include an
accounting of the revenue received from the tax and expenditures thereof in the audited

financial statements. The auditor’s report shall be presented to the Council and the
committee established by Section 3.13.180 and made available to the public.

Section 3.13.1 80 INDEPENDENT COMMUNITY OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE.
The City Council shall, no later than December 31, 2016, establish an independent
community oversight committee to review the expenditure of the revenue from this
transactions and use (sales) tax. The committee shall consist of five members to be
appointed by the Mayor and approved by the City Council. The terms of the committee
members and their specific duties shall be established by resolution of the City Council.

Section 3.13.190 AMENDMENTS OF CHAPTER: RESCISSION OF TAX.

A.	The following amendments to this Chapter must be approved by the
voters of the City of Fortuna: increasing the tax rate or revising the methodology for
calculating the tax such that a tax increase would result; imposing the tax on transactions
and uses not previously subject to the tax (unless such amendment occurs automatically
by operation of Section 3.13.120); or extending the tax. The City Council may otherwise
amend this ordinance without submitting the amendment to the voters for approval.

B.	The City Council may, with a four-fifth’s vote of the entire Council,
rescind this ordinance and terminate the tax at any time and without voter approval.

Section 3.13.200 TERMINATION OF TAX. The authority to levy the tax
imposed by this ordinance shall expire on the eighth anniversary of the operative date
(anticipated to be at the end of the day on March 31,2025).

SECTION 2. EFFECTIVE DATE. This ordinance relates to the levying and collecting of the
City transactions and use taxes and shall take effect immediately.

SECTION 3. CERTIFICATION: PUBLICATION. Upon approval by the voters, the City
Clerk shall certify to the passage and adoption of this ordinance and shall cause it to be published
according to law and transmitted to the Board of Equalization.

SECTION 4. COMPLIANCE WITH THE CALIFORNIA ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY
ACT. The approval of this Ordinance is exempt from the California Environmental Quality Act
(Public Resources Code §§ 21000 et seq., “CEQA,” and 14 Cal. Code Reg. §§ 15000 et seq.,
“CEQA Guidelines”). The transactions and use tax enacted by this Ordinance is a general tax that
can be used for any legitimate governmental purpose; it is not a commitment to any particular
action. As such, under CEQA Guidelines section 15378(b)(4), the tax is not a project within the
meaning of CEQA because it creates a government funding mechanism that does not involve any
commitment to any specific project that may result in a potentially significant physical impact on
the environment. If revenue from the tax were used for a purpose that would have either such
effect, the city would undertake the required CEQA review for that particular project. Therefore,
pursuant to CEQA Guidelines section 15060 CEQA analysis is not required.

INTRODUCED AND FIRST READING PERFORMED on the 5th day of July 2016, by the following
vote:

AYES: Council Member Brown, Gardner, Strehl, Mayor Pro Tern Trent, Mayor Long
NOES: None
ABSENT: None
ABSTAIN: None

Xinda McGill CMC, City Clerk

SECOND READING PERFORMED AND ADOPTED on the 18th day of July 2016, subject to voter
approval at the November 8, 2016 election, by the following vote:

AYES: Council Member Brown, Gardner, Strehl, Mayor Pro Tern Trent, Mayor Long
NOES: None
ABSENT: None
ABSTAIN: None

Approved As To Form:

^ David Tranberg, City Attorney

CERTIFICATE

1, Linda McGill, City Clerk of the City of Fortuna, do hereby certify that Ordinance 2016-726 was INTRODUCED
at a regular meeting of the Fortuna City Council held the 5th day July of 2016, and the SECOND READING was
held at a regular meeting of the Fortuna City Council held the 20th day of July 2016. I further certify that
Ordinance 2016-726 was duly posted and published pursuant to law and the Charter of the City of Fortuna and is a
true and correct copy.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the official seal of the City of Fortuna,
California, and this$0 day of V)U (u_, 2016.

Linda McGill, CMC
City Clerk, City of Fortuna