From Ballotpedia

El Centro, California, Sales Tax, Measure P
(November 2016)

Ballot question

The following question appeared on the ballot:1^1

Shall Ordinance No. 16-05 A be adopted amending the El Centro Municipal Code in
Article III, Sections 25-46-56.3 approving a one-half cent transactions and use tax in
addition to the current sales tax rate (raising $5.5M/year until June 30, 2047) to
maintain general City services and facilities including police, fire protection, library,
parks and recreation, senior programs, and street maintenance and upgrade? ^

Impartial analysis

The following impartial analysis of the measure was prepared by the office of the El Centro City

Attorney:

The City of El Centro currently collects a state sales and use tax of eight percent (8%)
although the City receives only a portion of the taxes collected. The City Council has
placed Measure “P” on the ballot to ask the voters to amend the City’s Municipal Code
to add a different, local “transactions and use tax” which would add a half cent to the
sales tax collected in the City. The additional tax would be paid directly to the City.

The transactions tax would be effective April 1, 2017 so the total of the two taxes
would be 8.5% for the period of the tax.

The transaction and use tax is paid in addition to and as a percentage of the price of
tangible personal property. It is paid on retail transactions within the City in addition to
and in the same manner as state sales tax and is imposed on retailers for the privilege of
selling tangible personal property. The use tax is imposed in the same manner on the
consumption of such personal property. This measure does not change the sales and use
tax now collected. The transactions and use tax does not apply to a transaction when
state sales tax does not apply.

If approved, the period of the additional half-cent tax is 30 years and three months from
its effective date. The tax will terminate without further action of the voters at midnight
on June 30, 2047.

It is anticipated that this additional tax will generate an additional $5.5M per year.
Because Measure “P” is a general tax, the proceeds of the tax may be used for any City
general governmental purpose, including but not limited to fire and police services;

street operations and maintenance; library, and parks and recreation facilities and
services.

In order for the City to adopt the amendments to its Municipal Code described above.
Measure “P” must be approved by a majority of the votes cast by the voters within the
City voting on the ballot proposition.

A “yes” vote on Measure “P” will authorize the amendments to the City’s Municipal
Code described above and will levy the additional tax from April 1, 2017 through June
30, 2047.

A “no” vote on Measure “P” will prohibit the City from adopting the amendments to its
Municipal Code to add the local transactions and use tax and the present sales and use
tax will remain in place at eight percent (8%).^

—El Centro City Attorney111