The question for Measure K:

To help fund general municipal services, including but not limited
to police and fire protection services, parks, recreation and
library facilities, shall an ordinance be adopted to impose a
business license tax at a rate of up to fifteen percent (15%) of
gross receipts on marijuana businesses and dispensaries, if
marijuana businesses or dispensaries are approved to operate
in the City of Dixon?___________________________________________

Impartial Analysis of Measure K

Measure K has been placed on the ballot by the Dixon City Council. Measure K, if approved, would enact
an Ordinance that amends the City of Dixon's Municipal Code to authorize the Dixon City Council to
impose a business license tax of up to fifteen percent (15%) of the gross receipts of any marijuana-
related business.

The legalization of marijuana for recreational or other non-medical use will be included on the statewide
ballot on November 8, 2016. In addition, under the Medical Marijuana Regulation and Safety Act
("MMRSA"), the State of California is currently developing a licensing system to govern the cultivation,
processing, transporting, testing, and distribution of medical marijuana to qualified patients throughout
the State. On January 12, 2016, in response to MMRSA, the City of Dixon adopted an ordinance
prohibiting the cultivation and distribution of medical marijuana in order to retain local land use control
of medical marijuana cultivation, dispensaries and distribution, and to allow additional time for the City
Council to consider how to best address the changing legal status of marijuana use within City limits.

If Measure K is adopted by the qualified city voters on November 8, 2016, the City Council will be
authorized (but not required) to impose a business license tax on marijuana businesses, broadly defined
to include (1) all commercial cultivation distribution related to medical marijuana, if the current City
prohibition on medical marijuana dispensaries is eventually lifted or amended, and (2) all commercial
activities related to non-medical marijuana, if such use is legalized by California voters and such business
are eventually allowed in the City. The City Manager will be authorized to establish procedures to
collect the marijuana business license tax, and the Finance Director will be authorized to audit any
businesses submitting such taxes to the City. The City will also be authorized to establish penalties and
fines to enforce the payment of the marijuana business license taxes.

The proposed marijuana business license tax is a general tax because the proceeds from the tax would
go into the City's general fund, and would be used to fund general municipal services. The California
Constitution requires that the electorate approve a general tax by a majority vote. Before the City
Council can establish the tax rates for marijuana businesses, a majority of qualified City voters must
approve the measure. If approved, the City Council would be authorized to impose a business license tax
rate up to 15%, by way of resolution, on marijuana-related businesses only.

A 'YES' vote, by a majority of the voters, would approve proposed amendments to the Dixon Municipal
Code to establish a business license tax of up to 15% of the gross receipts of a marijuana business in
Dixon.

A'NO' vote would disapprove proposed amendments to the Dixon Municipal Code to establish a
business license tax of up to 15% to be paid by an authorized marijuana business in Dixon.

/s/

Douglas White, City Attorney
City of Dixon

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure K. If you desire a copy of the measure, please
call the City clerk at (707) 678-7000 and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you.

Arguments in support or opposition of the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

Argument in Favor of Measure K

This election, California voters will determine whether to legalize marijuana for recreational
and non-medical use. The statewide proposition, if approved, will authorize commercial
cultivation and distribution. The proposition will also impose excise and cultivation taxes,
which would be paid directly to the State of California and distributed through specified
channels. Polls have indicated that up to 60% of California voters are in support of the
proposition.

The undersigned City Councilmembers are committed to doing what is best for our community.
If the statewide initiative passes, we will seek the community's input before we make any
decision to allow marijuana-related businesses to operate in our City. However, if such
businesses are to be allowed, we must have a system in place to tax medical and non-medical
marijuana at the local level.

The proposed marijuana business tax would authorize the Dixon City Council to impose a local
tax of up to 15% on such businesses. If marijuana-related businesses are eventually allowed,
the tax could provide significant revenue that would go directly to the City of Dixon general
fund. The revenue from the marijuana tax could be used to fund any services provided by the
City, such as police and public safety, libraries, parks, youth programs and public works.

We think it makes sense to adopt the marijuana business license tax now, rather than waiting
two years until the next general election, or spending taxpayer money on a special election.

The undersigned members of the Dixon City Council therefore urge all Dixon voters to vote in
favor of the proposed marijuana business license tax.

Join us in voting YES on MEASURE K.

Signature:_________________________

Signed by:_________________________

City Councilmember, City of Dixon

If you desire a copy of the measure, please call the City clerk at (707) 678-7000 and a copy will
be mailed at no cost to you.

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE K
DIXON CANNABIS BUSINESS TAX

The Dixon City Council rejected medical marijuana dispensaries when proposed in the
past. The council’s latest attempt to prevent its citizens from acquiring this organic
naturopathic herbal remedy was to ban the delivery of the substance into the city by
providers. This council has done everything in its power to reject the will of the People
of the State of California who voted for the Compassionate Care Act, Proposition 215 in
1996. Now they seek to profit off the illness of their citizens. It is time to “just say NO!”
to politicians who can’t get enough of our money.

Where other communities are seeking 10% or less in taxes, the Dixon Council wants
15%. Medical insurance policies won’t cover this cost, so they are taking money from
sick people to line their own pockets. Their compassion has been overcome by their
greed.

They anticipate a new tax windfall, and naively assume that Proposition 64 will pass in
November and recreational cannabis will be legalized statewide so they can make even
more money. But this is by no means guaranteed.

We are already paying real estate and sales tax for the uses listed in the question. In
addition, the city does not control the library in town and can’t use the money to fund
another agency, Dixon Unified School District, which does control it.

Should city government be tied to the drug industry and get addicted to the revenue
from the marijuana tax? Addiction to this revenue will soon find the council promoting
the use of marijuana.

VOTE NO ON MEASURE KH

o

B

yj	r>o  o
m	cr*
©«  cnQ	33»  cr
	cn
>Z	
3>0  oo	
	-a
<c  oz	re
	XT  XT  CO

s/ Solano County Taxpayers Association, George Guynn Jr. President

Rebuttal to Argument in Favor of Measure K

DO YOU TRUST politicians who repeatedly provide misinformation such as “revenue ...
could be used to fund ... libraries”? Really? Funding for the Dixon Public Library is
provided by the Dixon Unified School District, not the City!!

What about funding for their other listed services? Why are we only hearing about this
now? The only thing in this council’s eyes are dollar signs.

The “argument in favor” states that there are already “excise and cultivation taxes” in
the proposed State initiative. This tax will go to the City’s General Fund to be spent
where ever!!

What happens if K is defeated? Those who need marijuana for medical purposes see
their costs reduced. We have waited 20 years for dispensaries, yet Dixon continues to
drag its feet and there is no guarantee even approving this tax will remove the City’s
ban.

What happens if this Measure succeeds? The City Council will have more money to
funnel to employees for salaries and benefits. This remains their top priority while
projects for the benefit of all of its citizens continue to sit on the back burner.

This and prior councils were given the opportunity to provide dispensaries and to
consider taxation. This was rejected not once but twice. In addition, delivery of medical
marijuana into Dixon was prohibited by these same people.

So what has changed? The size of the pot (pun intended) has grown. Everyone can be
bought for a price.

Apparently, that threshold has been achieved...

VOTE NO on MEASURE K!

s/ Solano County Taxpayers Association, George Guynn Jr. President

Rebuttal arguments in support or opposition of the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

Rebuttal to Argument against Measure K

UCSF medical school recently published a Public Health Analysis to understand the impacts of
marijuana legalization under Proposition 64. The Analysis concluded that Proposition 64 could
have serious public health consequences, similar to tobacco and alcohol use. If Measure K is
approved, the tax revenue generated would help to defray those costs.

For example, if Proposition 64 passes, the City could see an increase in marijuana use in City parks
and other public places. Measure K, if adopted, could provide revenue for the City to develop
better park programming. This would help to offset some of the negative consequences of
recreational marijuana use.

Contrary to the opponents' claims. Measure K will not automatically impose a 15% tax. Instead,
Measure K allows the City Council to tax marijuana sales in any amount ranging from 1% through
15%. The City Council could also choose not to adopt any business tax.

If Proposition 64 is adopted, the City Council will seek your input on whether to allow marijuana
dispensaries in City limits, for recreational or medicinal purposes. If you are concerned about
negative impacts of marijuana use after Proposition 64, join us and vote YES on MEASURE K.

/s/ Jack Batchelor, Mayor
City of Dixon

/s/ Jerry Castanon, Sr., Councilmember
City of Dixon

/s/ Steve Bird, Councilmember
City of Dixon

ORDINANCE NO. 1 8 - 0 4 8

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF DIXON, AMENDING
CHAPTER 4.02, BUSINESS LICENSE TAX, TO TITLE 4, REVENUE AND FINANCE,

OF THE DIXON MUNICIPAL CODE

WHEREAS, in 1996, the voters of the State of California approved Proposition
215 (codified as Cal. Health and Safety Code § 11362.5, and known as “The
Compassionate Use Act of 1996” or “CUA”); and

WHEREAS, in 2003, the California legislature passed SB 420 (Medical
Marijuana Program Act), which amended the Health and Safety Code to permit the
establishment of medical marijuana dispensaries for the distribution of marijuana for
medical purposes; and

WHEREAS, on October 9, 2015, Governor Brown signed 3 bills into law (AB 266,
AB 243, and SB 643), collectively referred to as the Medical Marijuana Regulation and
Safety Act (the “MMRSA”). MMRSA sets up a State licensing system for commercial
medical marijuana uses while also allowing cities to maintain local control of marijuana
cultivation; and

WHEREAS, on January 12, 2016, in response to MMRSA, the City adopted an
ordinance prohibiting marijuana cultivation and delivery in order to maintain local control
of marijuana cultivation within city limits; and

WHEREAS, on November 8, 2016, Californians may be asked to vote to decide
whether the State should legalize the commercial sale, use, and possession of
marijuana for recreational or non-medical use; and

WHEREAS, if such a proposition is proposed and approved by California voters
on November 8, 2016, the City intends to have in place a legal mechanism to tax
businesses involved in marijuana cultivation and distribution, if such activities are
authorized and approved by the City in the future; and

WHEREAS, all persons engaged in business activity in the City are required to
obtain a business license tax certificate and pay the city’s business license tax; and

WHEREAS, this Ordinance would tax businesses engaged in marijuana
cultivation and distribution at a maximum rate of up to 15% of monthly gross receipts, as
directed by the City Council under the business license tax section of the Dixon
Municipal Code; and

WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of Dixon finds that it is in the best interest
of the health, welfare and safety of the public to submit this ordinance to the qualified
voters of the City at the next statewide general election on November 8, 2016.

Page 1 of 4

NOW, THEREFORE, THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF DIXON ORDAIN:

SECTION 1. Chapter 4.02, Business License Tax, of Title 4, Revenue and Finance,
of Dixon’s Municipal Code shall be amended to read as follows:

Section 4.02.020, Definitions, shall be deleted in its entirety and replaced as follows:

4.02.020 Definitions.

For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:

“Business” means professions, trades, occupations, gainful activities, and all and every
kind of calling whether or not carried on for profit.

“City” means the City of Dixon, a municipal corporation of the State of California, in its
present incorporated form or in any later reorganized, consolidated, enlarged or
reincorporated form.

“Collector” means the Director of Finance or other City officer or employee charged with
the administration of this chapter.

“Fixed place of business” means the premises occupied in the City for the particular
purpose of conducting a business there and regularly kept open for that purpose with a
competent person in attendance for the purpose of attending to such business.

“Gross receipts” means the total amount charged or received for the performance of any
act, service or employment of whatever nature it may be, whether or not such service,
act or employment is done as a part of or in connection with the sale of goods, wares,
merchandise, for which a charge is made or credit allowed. Gross receipts shall be
calculated without any deduction on account of any of the following: (i) the cost of
tangible property sold or bartered; (ii) the cost of materials or products used, labor or
service cost, interest paid, losses, or other expense; or (iii) transportation costs

“Marijuana” or “Cannabis” has the meaning as defined in California Health and Safety
Code section 11018.

“Marijuana business” means any business activity involving the commercial cultivation,
distribution and exchange of marijuana, including but not limited to the, planting,
cultivation, harvesting, transporting, manufacturing, compounding, converting,

Page2of4 RESOLUTION NO.:	16“	048

i	DATE:	APR	2	6	2016

processing, preparing, storing, packaging, providing, wholesale and retail sales,
whether fixed, mobile, permanent or temporary, where marijuana is made available,
sold, given distributed, or otherwise provided in accordance with the existing laws of the
State of California, whether for medical or non-medical reasons.

“Person” means all domestic and foreign corporations, associations, syndicates, joint
stock corporations, partnerships of every kind, clubs, business or common law trusts,
societies and individuals transacting and carrying on any business in the City.

“Reporting Period” means a year, quarter or calendar month, as determined by the
collector.

“Sworn statement” means an affidavit sworn to before a person authorized to take oaths
or declaration or certification made under penalty of perjury

Section 4.02.035, Marijuana Business Tax, shall be added as follows:

4.02.035 Marijuana Business Tax.

A.	Every person engaged in a marijuana business shall pay an annual business
license tax of up to 15 cents for each $1.00 of gross receipts, regardless whether the
City has issued a permit for the marijuana business.

B.	The tax rate shall be set by resolution of the City Council. The City Council may,
in its discretion, implement such marijuana business tax rate it deems appropriate, and
may by resolution increase or lower such tax rate from time to time, provided that the
marijuana business tax shall not exceed 15 cents for each $1.00 of gross receipts.

C.	The collector shall establish reporting periods for the periodic collection of gross
receipts. The reporting period may fall under yearly, quarterly or monthly reporting, or
any reasonable reporting period established by the collector.

D.	Failure to pay the marijuana business tax shall be subject to penalties, interest
charges, and assessments as the City Council may establish, and the City may use any
and all code enforcement remedies available at law to collect such payments.

E.	The payment of the marijuana business tax shall not be construed as authorizing
the conduct or continuance of any illegal business or of a legal business in an illegal
manner. Nothing in this section shall be applied or construed as authorizing the sale of
marijuana.

RESOLUTION NO.:	16 ~ 04 8

APR 2 6 2016

Page 3 of 4



F.	The collector or his or her designee shall annually audit any marijuana business
taxes imposed by this section to verify that tax revenues have been properly expended
in accordance with the law.

G.	The marijuana business tax is not a sales tax and shall not be assessed as such

H.	This section was submitted to the qualified voters of the City for approval. Any
amendment to the maximum tax rate therefore may not become effective until such
amendment is approved by the voters. The voters expressly authorize the City Council
to amend, modify, change or revise any other provisions of this section as the City
Council deems in the best interest of the City. The City Council or City Manager may
promulgate rules, regulations and procedures to implement this section and to ensure
the efficient and timely collection of any taxes or any related penalties imposed by this
section.

SECTION 2. This is a City Council-sponsored initiative ordinance that shall only be
amended by the qualified voters of the City of Dixon as provided in the ordinance. The
City Council reserves the right and authority to amend the ordinance as authorized, or
at any time after a State or federal law is enacted which requires amendments in order
for the ordinance to be in compliance with such law or laws.

SECTION 3. If any provision of this ordinance or the application thereof to any person
or circumstance is held invalid, such invalidity shall not affect other provisions or
applications of the ordinance which can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application, and to this end the provisions of this ordinance are severable. The People
of the City of Dixon hereby declare that they would have adopted this ordinance
irrespective of the invalidity of any particular portion thereof.

SECTION 4. After it is enacted by the voters, this ordinance shall be in full force and
effect ten (10) days after the vote is declared by the legislative body, pursuant to the
provisions of Elections Code sections 9217 and 15400, and as provided by law.

RESOLUTION NO.:	16“0i

Page 4 of 4