RESOLUTION NO. 078-16

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF MARTINEZ, CALIFORNIA, CALLING FOR
AND PROVIDING FOR AND GIVING NOTICE OF THE GENERAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION HELD IN
THE CITY OF MARTINEZ, COUNTY OF CONTRA COSTA, STATE OF CALIFORNIA, ON NOVEMBER
8, 2016 FOR THE PURPOSE OF SUBMITTING TO THE ELECTORS TO BE VOTED ON AT SAID
ELECTION, A BALLOT MEASURE SEEKING VOTER APPROVAL OF A ONE-HALF PERCENT
TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX FOR ROAD IMPROVEMENT AND MAINTENANCE, PROVIDING
FOR THE CITY COUNCIL AND/OR A SUBCOMMITTEE THEREOF TO SUBMIT DIRECT AND
REBUTTAL ARGUMENTS RELATING THERETO, AND REQUESTING SERVICES OF THE COUNTY
ELECTIONS DEPARTMENT RELATING TO THE CONDUCT OF SAID ELECTION

WHEREAS, the City of Martinez, California ("City") street system consists of approximately
121.6 miles of streets composed of 938 pavement sections. Based on a 2015 assessment of the
overall condition of the City's street network the City's streets are at a Pavement Condition
Index (PCI) of 51. A Metropolitan Transportation Commission report places the City within the
bottom of the "At Risk" category relating to street condition; and

WHEREAS, the City relies on a variety of funding sources to support its pavement program
which includes State Gas Tax revenues and paving grants. State Gas Tax revenue has been
declining steadily over the last several years and is expected to continue to decline due to a
variety of factors including the increase in the use of more fuel efficient and alternative fuel
vehicles. There is a limited availability of grant funding for paving projects and grant funding
usually has many projects competing for the limited dollars available. The City's projected
average annual funding level from recurring annual sources is approximately $920,000; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Parts 1.6 and 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, the
City is authorized to impose a retail transactions and use tax in the incorporated territory of the
City for general purposes at a rate of 0.125% (or any multiple thereof); and

WHEREAS, pursuant to California Constitution article XIII C, section 2(a) a special transactions
and use tax may be imposed for the specific purpose of road Improvement and maintenance;
and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Elections Code section 1301, the City's general municipal elections are
held on the same day as the statewide general election in each even-numbered year, and the
next regularly scheduled general municipal election for members of the City Council and the
next statewide general election will be held on Tuesday, November 8, 2016; and

WHEREAS, the City Council desires to order an election on an Ordinance to impose a special
transactions and use tax in the amount of one-half percent for road improvement and
maintenance and to consolidate the election on said Ordinance with the general municipal
election to be held on November 8, 2016, including the election of two City Council members,
City Clerk and City Treasurer as set forth in Resolution 039-16.

1

NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF MARTINEZ, CALIFORNIA DOES HEREBY
RESOLVE AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1. Findings. The City Council finds that the foregoing recitals are true and correct
and are hereby incorporated and adopted as findings and determinations by the City Council as
if fully set forth herein.

Section 2. Submission of Proposed Martinez Road Improvement and Maintenance
Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance. Pursuant to Government Code section 53724, any other
applicable requirements of State law, and as otherwise set forth herein, the City Council hereby
orders the ordinance attached hereto as Exhibit A and by this reference incorporated herein
and made operative part hereof, to be submitted to the qualified voters of the City at the
general municipal election to be held on Tuesday, November 8, 2016.The type of tax and rate of
the special transactions and use tax to be levied, the method of collection, the purpose for
which its imposition is sought, and the tax expenditure plan are set forth in the Ordinance
attached hereto as Exhibit A. The City Council approved the ordinance by a two-thirds vote of
all members of the City Council. The Ordinance shall become effective if two-thirds of the
qualified voters of the City of Martinez voting on the ballot measure set forth in Section 3
below vote in favor of the ballot measure.

Section 3. Ballot Measure. In addition to any other matters required by law, there shall be
presented to the voters the question printed substantially as follows:

Measure		
"MARTINEZ ROAD IMPROVEMENT AND MAINTENANCE MEASURE"  To provide funding that stays in Martinez, to be used exclusively to improve and maintain the City's roadways, shall an ordinance which imposes a temporary, half-cent transaction and use (sales) tax for 15 years, providing an estimated $2.1 million annually, with citizens' oversight and annual audits, be adopted?	YES	
	NO	

Section 4. Consolidation and Conduct of Election.

a.	Pursuant to California Elections Code section 10400 and following, the City Council hereby
requests that the Board of Supervisors of the County of Contra Costa consent to the
consolidate of the election for the Ordinance with the statewide General Election to be held
on Tuesday, November 8, 2016 and the City Council, City Clerk and City Treasurer election
as set forth in Resolution 039-16.

2

The consolidated election shall be held and conducted, election officers appointed, voting
precincts designated, ballots printed, polls opened and closed, ballots counted and
returned, returns canvassed, results declared, certificates of election issued, and all other
proceedings incidental to and connected with the election shall be regulated and done by
Contra Costa County in accordance with the provisions of law regulating the regularly
scheduled statewide General Election, including but not limited to, California Elections Code
section 10418.

b.	The Board of Supervisors is requested to issue instructions to the Contra Costa County
elections official to take any and all steps necessary for the holding of the consolidated
election, including canvassing the returns of that election with respect to the votes cast in
the City and certifying the results to the City Council.

c.	The City recognizes that additional costs will be incurred by the County by reason of this
consolidation and agrees to reimburse the County for all costs.

d.	The City Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to cooperate with the Contra Costa County
elections official and to follow the procedures and meet all deadlines established by Contra
Costa County.

Section 5. Arguments and Analysis.

a.	Pursuant to article 4, chapter 3, division 9 of the California Elections Code, the City Clerk
shall fix and determine a reasonable date prior to the election for the submission to the City
Clerk of an argument in favor of and against the ballot measure and additional rebuttal
arguments. Direct arguments shall not exceed 300 words and shall be printed with the
signatures of no more than five persons. Rebuttal arguments shall not exceed 250 words
and shall not be signed by more than five persons.

b.	Pursuant to California Elections Code section 9285, when the City Clerk has selected the
arguments for and against the measure, which will be printed and distributed to the voters,
the City Clerk shall send copies of the argument in favor of the ballot measure to the
authors, if any, of the arguments against, and copies of the argument against the ballot
measures to the authors, if any, of the arguments in favor. Rebuttal arguments shall be
printed in the same manner as the direct arguments. Each rebuttal argument shall
immediately follow the direct argument it seeks to rebut.

c.	Pursuant to California Elections Code section 9280, the City Attorney shall prepare an
impartial analysis of the measure showing the effect of the measure on the existing law and
the operation of the measure. The impartial analysis shall not exceed 500 words.

d.	The City Council hereby designates the City Council and/or Mayor Rob Schroder and
Councilmember Lara DeLaney to prepare and file an argument and rebuttal argument on
behalf of the City Council.

3

Section 6. Placement on Ballot. The City Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to take all
steps necessary to place the ballot measure on the ballot and to cause the ballot measure to be
printed and shall act as the filing authority for arguments. The full text of the ballot measure
shall be printed in the voter pamphlet, and a statement shall be printed in the ballot pursuant
to Section 9280 of the Elections Code, advising voters that they may obtain a copy of this
Resolution, the ballot ordinance and/or ballot measure, at no cost upon request made to the
City Clerk.

Section 7. Notice and Publication of Ballot Measure.

a.	The City Clerk shall, not later than the 88th day prior to the election to be held on Tuesday,
November 8, 2016, file with the Contra Costa County Board of Supervisors and the Contra
Costa County elections official a certified copy of this Resolution.

b.	The City Clerk is authorized and directed to give such notice of the measure and of the time
and place of the election pursuant to California Elections Code section 12101 - 12113 and
any additional notice required by law.

Section 8. Public Examination. Pursuant to California Elections Code section 9295, this
measure will be available for public examination for no fewer than ten calendar days prior to
being submitted for printing in the sample ballot. The examination period will end on the day
that is 72 days prior to the date set for the election. The City Clerk shall post notice in the City
Clerk's office of the specific dates that the examination period will run.

Section 9. CEQA. The approval of this Resolution is exempt from the California
Environmental Quality Act ("CEQA")- The transactions and use tax to be submitted to the
voters is a special tax to be used for road improvement and maintenance; the identification of
the specific projects will be subject to a public process to determine the specific projects to be
funded by the tax; the submission and approval of the Ordinance is not a commitment to any
particular action. As such, under CEQA Guidelines section 15378(b)(4), the tax is not a project
within the meaning of CEQA because, as the tax is merely "the creation of a government
funding mechanism or other fiscal activity which does not involve any commitment to any
specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the
environment." (Cal. Code Regs., tit. 14, § 15378, subd. (b)(4).)

Section 10. Severability. If any provision or clause of this Resolution, the measure proposed
by the Resolution, or any application of any of the foregoing to any person or circumstance is
held invalid, unconstitutional, or otherwise repealed by act of law, such invalidity shall not
affect any other provisions or clauses of the same, which can be given effect without the invalid
provision, clause, or application. To this end, the provisions and clauses of this Resolution and
the proposed measure are hereby declared to be severable.

Section 11. Effective Date. This Resolution shall take effect immediately on its adoption.

4

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the City Council of the City of Martinez passed,
approved, and adopts the attached.



I HEREBY CERTIFY that the foregoing is a true and correct copy of a resolution duly adopted by
the City Council of the City of Martinez at a Regular Meeting of said Council held on the 3rd day
of August, 2016, by the following vote:

AYES:	Councilmembers	Lara	DeLaney,	Mark	Ross,	Vice	Mayor	AnaMarie Avila Farias, and

Mayor Rob Schroder

NOES:	None

ABSENT:	Debbie	McKillop,	Councilmember



RICHARD G. HERNANDEZ, CITY CLERK
CITY OF MARTINEZ

ATTEST:

Mercy G.'Cabral, Deputy City Clerk

5

ORDINANCE NO. 1395 C.S.

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF MARTINEZ
IMPOSING A TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX TO BE ADMINISTERED
BY THE STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION

WHEREAS, Parts 1.6 and 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code authorize the City
of Martinez, California ("City") to impose a retail transaction and use tax in the incorporated
territory of the City for specific purposes at a rate of 0.125% (or any multiple thereof);

WHEREAS, pursuant to California Constitution article XIII C, section 2(d) and California
Government Code section 53721-53724, a special transactions and use tax is subject to
approval by two-thirds vote of all the members of the City Council and by two-thirds vote of the
qualified voters voting in an election on the issue; and

WHEREAS, the City does not currently impose a retail transactions and use tax in the
incorporated territory but wishes to impose such a tax for the special purpose of road
improvement and maintenance at a rate of one-half percent (0.50%) on the sale of tangible
personal property and the storage, use, or other consumption of such property. The tax
revenue would be collected by the State Board of Equalization and remitted to the City.

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF MARTINEZ DO ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1. TITLE. This ordinance shall be known as the Martinez Road Improvement and
Maintenance Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance. This ordinance shall be applicable in the
incorporated territory of the City.

Section 2. OPERATIVE DATE. "Operative Date" means the first day of the first calendar
quarter commencing more than 110 days after the adoption of this ordinance, the date of such
adoption being as set forth below.

Section 3. PURPOSE. This ordinance is adopted to achieve the following, among other
purposes, and directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish those
purposes:

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the provisions of Part
1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code and
Section7285.91 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 which authorizes the City to adopt this tax ordinance
which shall be operative if two-thirds of the electors voting on the measure vote to approve the
imposition of the tax at an election called for that purpose.

B.	A transactions and use tax for road improvement and maintenance requires a vote of
the residents of the City, and two-thirds (2/3) of those voting on the tax must approve the tax
in order for it to be implemented. In addition, this Ordinance, along with the Transactions and

1

Use Tax Expenditure Plan ("Expenditure Plan") for use of the proceeds of the tax, which
isattached to this Ordinance as Exhibit A, must be approved by two-thirds (2/3) of the City
Council. The proceeds of the tax shall be applied only to the specific purposes identified in this
ordinance. The City shall create a separate account into which the proceeds of the tax shall be
deposited and shall prepare an annual report pursuant to section 50075.3 of the California
Government Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates provisions
identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California insofar as those
provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax and provides a
measure therefore that can be administered and collected by the State Board of Equalization in
a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and requires the least possible deviation
from, the existing statutory and administrative procedures followed by the State Board of
Equalization in administering and collecting the California State Sales and Use Taxes.

E.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be administered in a
manner that will be, to the greatest degree possible, consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6
of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting the transactions
and use taxes, and at the same time, minimize the burden of record keeping upon persons
subject to taxation under the provisions of this ordinance.

Section 4. CONTRACT WITH STATE. Prior to the operative date, the City shall contract
with the State Board of Equalization to perform all functions incident to the administration and
operation of this transactions and use tax ordinance; provided, that if the City shall not have
contracted with the State Board of Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall nevertheless
so contract and in such a case the operative date shall be the first day of the first calendar
quarter following the execution of such a contract.

Section 5. TRANSACTIONS TAX RATE. For the privilege of selling tangible personal
property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated territory of the
City at the rate of one-half percent (0.5%) of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of
all tangible personal property sold at retail in said territory on and after the operative date of
this ordinance.

Section 6. PLACE OF SALE. For the purposes of this ordinance, all retail sales are
consummated at the place of business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold
is delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for
delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery
charges, when such charges are subject to the state sales and use tax, regardless of the place to
which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the State
or has more than one place of business, the place or places at which the retail sales are
consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted
by the State Board of Equalization.

2

Section 7. USE TAX RATE. An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other
consumption in the City of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on and after
the operative date of this ordinance for storage, use or other consumption in said territory at
the rate of one-half percent (0.50%) of the sales price of the property. The sales price shall
include delivery charges when such charges are subject to state sales or use tax regardless of
the place to which delivery is made.

Section 8. ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW. Except as otherwise provided in
this ordinance and except insofar as they are inconsistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing with
Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a
part of this ordinance as though fully set forth herein.

Section 9. LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF STATE LAW AND COLLECTION OF USE TAXES.
In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing agency,
the name of this City shall be substituted therefor. However, the substitution shall not be made
when:

1.	The word "State" is used as a part of the title of the State Controller, State
Treasurer, State Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or the Constitution of the State of
California.

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or
against this City or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by or against the State
Board of Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the administration or operation
of this Ordinance.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sections referring
to the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the result of the substitution would
be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales, storage,
use or other consumption of tangible personal property which would not otherwise be exempt
from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other consumption remain subject to tax by the
State under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, or; and

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other
consumption of tangible personal property which would not be subject to tax by the state
under the said provision of that code.

4.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711, 6715,
6737, 6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

3

B.	The word "City" shall be substituted for the word "State" in the phrase "retailer
engaged in business in this State" in Section 6203 and in the definition of that phrase in Section
6203.

Section 10. PERMIT NOT REQUIRED. If a seller's permit has been issued to a retailer under
Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional transactor's permit shall not be
required by this ordinance.

Section 11. EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the use
tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or by any city, city
and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or
the amount of any state-administered transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax
the gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum products,
to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the county in which the sale
is made and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or
property under the authority of the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign
government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the City which is shipped to a point
outside the City, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by the retailer or his
agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at such point. For
the purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point outside the City shall be satisfied:

a. With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject to
registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle
Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and
undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the
Vehicle Code by registration to an out-of-City address and by a declaration under penalty of
perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that such address is, in fact, his or her principal place of
residence; and

b. With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of
business out-of-City and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, that the
vehicle will be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to furnish
the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of
this ordinance.

4

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such
property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the property for an
amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, the sale or
lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract
or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the
unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is
exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this ordinance, the storage,
use or other consumption in this City of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a
transactions tax under any state-administered transactions and use tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of aircraft
and used or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as
common carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under a certificate of public
convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this State, the United States, or any
foreign government. This exemption is in addition to the exemptions provided in Sections 6366
and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price
pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the tangible
personal property arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such property for any
period of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by a
lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, storage, use,
or other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power over, tangible
personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any
period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to
terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in business in
the City shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible personal
property, unless the retailer ships or delivers the property into the City or participates within
the City in making the sale of the property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving
the order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer in the City or
through any representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the City under
the authority of the retailer.

5

7.	"A retailer engaged in business in the City" shall also include any retailer of
any of the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with
Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section
21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5
(commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to collect
use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an
address in the City.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit against that tax
any transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district imposing, or
retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code with respect to the sale to the person of the property the storage, use or other
consumption of which is subject to the use tax.

Section 12. AMENDMENTS. All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this
ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use
taxes and which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part of this ordinance, provided however, that no
such amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this ordinance.

Section 13. ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN. No injunction or writ of mandate or
other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit, action or proceeding in any court against
the State or the City, or against any officer of the State or the City, to prevent or enjoin the
collection under this ordinance, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of
any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.

Section 14. SEVERABILITY. If any provision of this ordinance or the application thereof
to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the ordinance and the
application of such provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

Section 15. CITIZEN OVERSIGHT. No later than April 1, 2017, the City Council shall
establish a Citizens' Oversight Committee to review the expenditures of tax revenues under the
authority of this Ordinance, or shall assign these duties to an existing City committee. The
terms, composition, and specific duties of any new Citizens' Oversight Committee, or the
assignment of these duties to an existing City committee, shall be established by resolution of
the City Council. All meetings of the Citizens' Oversight Committee shall comply with the
provisions of the Ralph M. Brown Act (Government Code Section 34950 et seq.).

Section 16. TERMINATION DATE. The authority to levy the tax imposed by this
ordinance shall expire March 31, 2032.

Section 17. EFFECTIVE DATE. This Ordinance, if approved by the electorate of the City of
Martinez at the General Municipal Election of November 8, 2016, shall become effective
immediately upon the declaration of the results of that election by the City Council of the City
of Martinez.

6

Section 18. EXECUTION. The Mayor is hereby authorized to attest to the adoption of the
Ordinance by the voters of the City by signing where indicated below.

I hereby certify that the foregoing Ordinance was passed, approved and adopted by the People
of the City of Martinez, California voting on the 8th day of November, 2016.



I HEREBY CERTIFY the foregoing ordinance was duly and regularly introduced at a Regular
Meeting of the City Council of the City of Martinez, held on the 20th day of July, 2016, and duly
passed and adopted at an Adjourned Regular Meeting of said City Council held on the 3rd day of
August, 2016, by the following vote:

AYES:	Councilmembers	Lara	DeLaney,	Mark	Ross,	Vice	Mayor	AnaMarie	Avila	Farias,

and Mayor Rob Schroder

NOES:	None

ABSENT:	Councilmember	Debbie	McKillop

ABSTAIN:	None

6Ll2>%^

RICHARD G. HERNANDEZ
CITY CLERK, CITY OF MARTINEZ

7