COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE HH

MEASURE HH

COUNTY COUNSEL'S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF
MEASURE HH

A school district may levy a qualified special tax upon approval by two-
thirds of the votes cast on a measure pursuant to section 4 of article XIIIA
of the California Constitution and section 50075 et seq. of the California
Government Code.

The Board of Trustees (Board) for the Franklin-McKinley School District
(District) proposes an education parcel tax. If approved, the parcel tax
will be levied in the amount of $72 per parcel per year beginning July 1,
2018 and ending nine years later. The District currently has a $72 per
parcel per year tax that is expiring.

Parcels which are (i) contiguous; (ii) used solely for owner-occupied,
single family residential purposes; and (iii) held under identical ownership
may upon annual application be treated as a single parcel for purposes of
the levy. An exemption from the proposed tax is available upon annual
application for any parcel that is used only for owner-occupied, single-
family residential purposes by a person 65 years or older. All property
that would otherwise be exempt from property tax will also be exempt
from the proposed tax.

State law requires the District to state the specific purposes for which
the tax proceeds will be used and only spend the proceeds of the tax
for these purposes. The stated purposes of the proposed tax are:
(1) expanding reading, counseling and tutoring programs for at-risk
students; (2) enhancing academic programs in reading, math and science;
(3) expanding student access to after school programs; (4) bringing
back performing arts and music programs for grades K-6; (5) improving
student access to computers and modern technology; (6) maintaining
small class sizes; and (7) maintaining or expanding performing arts and
music programs. The Resolution accompanying the Measure states that
no funds are to be used for administrator salaries or benefits.

The District is required by law to provide additional accountability
measures for the proceeds. These measures include: (1) depositing the
proceeds into a fund that is separate and apart from other District funds;
and (2) providing an annual written report to the Board stating the amount
of funds collected and expended, and the status of any project authorized
to be funded from the tax proceeds. The Board will also appoint an
independent citizens' oversight committee to provide oversight as to
expenditures of parcel tax revenues.

Measure HH was placed on the ballot by the Board.

A "yes" vote is a vote to approve a parcel tax of $72 per parcel on parcels
within the District for nine years.

A "no" vote is a vote to not approve the proposed parcel tax.

James R. Williams
Acting County Counsel

By: 1st Danielle L. Goldstein
Deputy County Counsel

LOCAL ELEMENTARY SCHOOL DISTRICT ACHIEVEMENT
MEASURE HH
Franklin-McKinley School District

INTRODUCTION AND PURPOSE

To ensure reliable funding to improve the overall quality of education
and enhance student achievement in local schools by enhancing reading,
math, and science instruction; ensuring small class sizes; bringing back
performing arts and music program; and expanding reading, counseling
and tutoring programs for at-risk students, the Franklin-McKinley School
District proposes to establish an education parcel tax for a period of
nine years, beginning July 1, 2018, at the rate of $72 per year, on each
assessor's parcel located within the Franklin-McKinley School District,
with an exemption available for senior citizens, and to implement
accountability measures in connection with the temporary levy that
are over and above those required by law, including the appointment
of an independent citizen oversight committee to provide oversight and
accountability to ensure the funds are used to:

•	Expand reading, counseling and tutoring programs for at-risk
students.

•	Enhance academic programs in reading, math and science.

•	Expand student access to after school programs.

•	Bring back performing arts and music programs for grades K-6.

•	Improve student access to computers and modem technology.

•	Maintain small class sizes.

•	Maintain or expand performing arts and music programs.

AMOUNT OF EDUCATION PARCEL TAX; PERIOD OF ASSESSMENT
The education parcel tax shall be $72 (or less as provided below) per
year for nine (9) full years assessed against each parcel.

The proceeds of the education parcel tax shall be deposited into a
separate account created by the District.

DEFINITION OF "PARCEL"

For purposes of this special tax, the term "Parcel" means any parcel of
land which lies wholly or partially within the boundaries of the Franklin-
McKinley School District, that receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem
property taxes from the Santa Clara County Assessor/Tax Collector.
All property that is otherwise exempt from or upon which are levied no
ad valorem property taxes in any year shall also be exempt from the
education parcel tax in such year.

EXEMPTION FOR CONTIGUOUS PARCELS
For purposes of this special tax, any such "Parcels" which are
(i) contiguous, (ii) used solely for owner-occupied, single-family residential
purposes, and (iii) held under identical ownership may, by submitting an
application of the owners thereof by June 15 of each year to the Board of
Trustees of the Franklin-McKinley School District in accordance with rules
and regulations adopted by the Board, be treated as a single "parcel" for
purposes of the levy of the education parcel tax.

SC Ballot Type 000 - Page 00

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE HH-Continued

EXEMPTION FOR SENIORS

Pursuant to California Government Code Section 50079 (b), any owners
of a Parcel used solely for owner-occupied, single-family residential
purposes and who are 65 years of age or older, may obtain an exemption
from the education parcel tax by annually submitting an application, by
June 15 of each year, to the Board of Trustees of the Franklin-McKinley
School District in accordance with rules and regulations adopted by the
Board.

With respect to all general property tax matters within its jurisdiction, the
Santa Clara County Assessor/Tax Collector, or other appropriate County
tax officials shall make all final determinations of tax exemption or relief
for any reason, and that decision shall be final and binding. With respect
to matters specific to the levy of the education parcel tax, including the
Senior Citizen Exemption and the classification of property for purposes
of calculating the tax, the decisions of a District administrative review
panel shall be final and binding.

REDUCTION IN TAX IF RESULT IS LESS OTHER GOVERNMENT
SUPPORT

The collection of the education parcel tax is not intended to decrease or
offset any increase in local, state or federal government revenue sources
that would otherwise be available to the Franklin-McKinley School District
during the period of the education parcel tax. In the event that the levy
and collection does have such an effect, the Franklin-McKinley School
District shall cease the levy or shall reduce the education parcel tax to
the extent that such action would restore the amount of the decrease or
offset in other revenues.

ACCOUNTABILITY MEASURES

In accordance with the requirements of California Government Code
Sections 50075.1 and 50075.3, the following accountability measures,
among others, shall apply to the education parcel tax levied in accordance
with this Measure: (a) the specific purposes of the education parcel
tax shall be those purposes identified above; (b) the proceeds of the
education parcel tax shall be applied only to those specific purposes
identified above; (c) a separate, special account shall be created into
which the proceeds of the education parcel tax must be deposited; and

(d)	an annual written report shall be made to the Board of Trustees of the
District showing (i) the amount of funds collected and expended from the
proceeds of the education parcel tax and (ii) the status of any projects or
programs required or authorized to be funded from the proceeds of the
education parcel tax, as identified above.

In addition to the accountability measures required by law, an independent
citizen oversight committee shall be appointed by the Board of Trustees
of the District to advise the Board on the expenditures funded by the
measure in order to ensure that said funds are spent for the purposes
approved by the voters. The oversight committee will monitor the
expenditures of these funds by the District and will report on an annual
basis to the Board and community on how these funds have been spent.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE HH

Vote Yes on HH to provide critical funding for our local elementary and
middle school students-without raising taxes by a single penny.

Measure HH renews existing, voter-approved funding for our local
Franklin-McKinley schools to support the keys to student success-strong
academic programs in math, science, reading, and writing, and quality
teachers.

All Measure HH funds go directly to our local schools, are controlled
locally, and cannot be taken away by the state.

Measure HH will continue to improve student achievement by providing
a strong education for all students. It will support tutoring and counseling
programs for at-risk students. Measure HH will also help expand student
access to after-school programs, keeping kids on the right track.

Measure HH ensures local students receive a strong, 21st Century
education, with up-to-date technology and classroom instruction to excel
in today's global society.

Vote YES on HHto:

•	Enhance academic programs in reading, math, and science

•	Expand counseling and tutoring programs for at-risk students

•	Improve student access to computers and modern technology

•	Bring back performing arts and music programs for kindergarten
through sixth grade

•	Maintain small class sizes

Strong Fiscal Accountability Protections:

•	Measure HH does not increase taxes—it simply renews
existing funding for our local schools before it expires

•	All Measure HH funds will benefit local elementary and middle
schools and cannot be taken away by the State

•	No funds can be spent on administrators' salaries

•	Independent citizen oversight and annual audits ensure all
funds are used wisely

•	Senior citizens can receive an exemption

•	Measure HH expires in 9 years and cannot be renewed without
voter approval

Strong neighborhood schools help improve property values in our
community, whether or not you have children in school.

SC Ballot Type 000 - Page 00

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE HH

Join neighbors, community leaders, and parents in supporting local
students. Vote YES on Measure HH!

Isl Carl Guardino

President and CEO, Silicon Valley Leadership Group

/s/Tam Nguyen

San Jose City Councilmember, Dist. 7

Isl Buu Thai

Former, Franklin-McKinley School Board Member

Isl Muhammed Chaudhry

CEO, Silicon Valley Education Foundation

Isl Corazon B. Tomalinas
Community Member

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE HH

In 2010, voters approved a $50,000,000 bond debt measure and now the
District is coming back for more loot.

In 2008, voters approved a $72 parcel tax and now they're coming back
to renew it for another 9 years.

According to the web site: www.ed-data.org. the district revenues for
2014-15 (latest figures available) were $88,644,011 and for 2013-14
school-year, revenues were $79,725,473.

That's a $8,938,538 jump in revenues in just one year. So, why do

they need to renew the $72 parcel tax?

Answer: they don't.

They are spending $10,270 per student per year in 2014/15 which is
107% of the statewide average. That's a whopping $1,440 per student
revenue increase year over year.

The district's ADA (Average Daily Attendance) has declined by 951
students since the 2010-11 school year, which should mean lower costs.

If they are already receiving and spending $1,440 per student more than
last school year, why do they need to renew the $72 parcel tax?

Answer: they don't.

And that's on top of the $50,000,000 bond measure debt approved in
2010--NOT counting interest expense on that debt.

It's time we said no to the tax and spend special interest crowd and reject
this parcel tax.

Just once, wouldn't you like to see a "temporary tax" actually be
temporary?

More tax money will NOT result in higher test scores, but will result
in bigger bureaucracies and fatter pensions. Please vote NO on
Measure HH.

For more information, visit www.SVTaxpavers.ora/2016-franklink-
mckinlev-school-parcel-tax

Isl Mark W.A. Hinkle

President: Silicon Valley Taxpayers Association

SC Ballot Type 000 - Page 00

	
ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE HH	REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE HH
In 2010, voters approved a $50,000,000 bond debt measure and now the District is coming back for more loot.  In 2008, voters approved a $72 parcel tax and now they're coming back to renew it for another 9 years.  According to the web site: www.ed-data.org. the district revenues for 2014-15 (latest figures available) were $88,644,011 and for 2013-14 school-year, revenues were $79,725,473.  That's a $8,938,538 jump in revenues in just one year. So, why do  they need to renew the $72 parcel tax?  Answer: they don't.  They are spending $10,270 per student per year in 2014/15 which is 107% of the statewide average. That's a whopping $1,440 per student revenue increase year over year.  The district's ADA (Average Daily Attendance) has declined by 951 students since the 2010-11 school year, which should mean lower costs.  If they are already receiving and spending $1,440 per student more than last school year, why do they need to renew the $72 parcel tax?  Answer: they don't.  And that's on top of the $50,000,000 bond measure debt approved in 2010--NOT counting interest expense on that debt.  It's time we said no to the tax and spend special interest crowd and reject this parcel tax.  Just once, wouldn't you like to see a "temporary tax" actually be	The sole opponent of Measure HH consistently opposes measures that fund our local schools and doesn't live in our community. He hasn't taken the time to understand our needs and wants to tell us how to vote on an issue that impacts our schools.  Measure HH does not increase taxes by a single penny.  It simply renews existing funding for our schools before it expires to ensure ongoing fiscal stability—without increasing taxes.  Measure HH must be used for key academic priorities in our schools.  All funds go directly to the classroom to enhance academic programs in reading, math, and science. Measure HH also expands counseling and tutoring programs for at-risk students, improves student access to computers and modern technology, brings back performing arts and music programs, and maintains small class sizes.  Citizen oversight ensures Measure HH supports education, not administrators.  Measure HH requires annual audits to ensure funds are spent as promised to voters. No funds can be spent on administrators' salaries.  Measure HH cannot be taken away by the state.  Measure HH is stable funding that stays right here in our schools and cannot be taken away by the state, providing financial stability for local education.  By supporting our schools, our entire community has benefited. Good schools keep our neighborhoods safe.  We know what is best for our kids. Join our community's leaders in voting YES on HH—support our local schools, without increasing taxes.  Isl Maya Esparza  Community Leader & Resident  Isl George Sanchez  Educator, East Side Union High School District  Isl John Lindner  Board President, Franklin-McKinley School District  Isl Ronald Masuda 32-Yr. Local Resident  Isl Phillip W. Renteria  Chair, FMSD Citizens' Bond Oversight Committee
temporary?  More money spent on schools will NOT result in higher test scores, but will result in bigger bureaucracies and fatter pensions. Please vote NO on Measure HH.  For more information, visit www.SVTaxpavers.ora/2016-franklink- mckinlev-school-parcel-tax  Isl Mark W.A. Hinkle  President: Silicon Valley Taxpayers Association	

PR-8555-4ENG

SC Ballot Type 000 - Page 00