online editio: San Francisco Voter Information Pamphlet & Sample

BallotConsolidated General Election
November 8, 2016

B

City College Parcel Tax

To continue providing City College of San Francisco local funds the state cannot take away and
offset cuts to prevent layoffs; ensure affordable education for students; maintain core classes in
writing, math and science; prepare students for four-year universities, workforce training in
careers in nursing, engineering/ technology; provide counselors; keep college libraries open;
shall San Francisco Community College District renew its existing annual parcel tax at $99 per
parcel for 15 years, requiring annual independent audits and citizen oversight?

Digest by the Ballot Simplification Committee

The Way It Is Now: City College of San Francisco (CCSF) is an accredited, public, two-year community
college. It has nine campuses in the City and serves approximately 60,000 students each year.

The Community College Board, which oversees CCSF, has determined that City College's current revenues are
inadequate to allow the college to continue its core academic and job-training programs.

In November 2012, San Francisco voters approved an annual parcel tax of $79 per parcel to provide funding to
CCSF. That parcel tax is set to expire on June 30, 2021.

The Proposal: Beginning in 2017, Proposition B would replace the current parcel tax with a parcel tax of $99
per year, lasting for 15 years. This parcel tax would expire on June 30, 2032.

The funds would offset reductions in State funding and help CCSF to maintain current services. CCSF must
use the parcel tax funds to:

•	attract and retain highly qualified teachers;

•	protect quality academic instruction in core subjects, such as math, science, reading and writing;

•	keep school libraries open;

•	maintain programs that prepare students for the workforce;

•	provide counselors for students; and

•	keep technology and instructional support up to date.

Proposition B would prohibit CCSF from using parcel tax funds for administrators’ salaries, benefits or
pensions.

The use of funds will be subject to annual review by the Citizens’ Oversight Committee appointed by the
Community College Board.

A “YES” Vote Means: If you vote “yes,” you want to replace the current $79 per year parcel tax that funds
City College of San Francisco with a parcel tax of $99 per year, lasting through June 2032.

A “NO” Vote Means: If you vote “no,” you do not want to make these changes.

Controller’s Statement on “B”

City Controller Ben Rosenfield has issued the following statement on the fiscal impact of Proposition B:

Should the proposed parcel tax be approved by the voters, in my opinion, it would not affect the cost of
government for the City and County of San Francisco. It would generate significant additional revenue for the
San Francisco Community College District (City College).

If approved by voters, the proposed $99 parcel tax replaces the existing $79 City College parcel tax and would
be collected each year, beginning with fiscal year (FY) 2017-2018 and ending with FY 2031-32 (fifteen years
total), from property owners of each separately taxed parcel in San Francisco. Property that would otherwise
be exempt from property taxes will also be exempt from the parcel tax.

The proposed tax of $99 per parcel represents a $20 increase and an additional eleven year extension to the
existing City College parcel tax approved by voters on November 6, 2012 and otherwise set to expire in FY
2020-21.

The tax is projected to generate approximately $19 million in revenues annually for benefit of the San
Francisco Community College District, or approximately $4 million more than the current tax. Eligible uses of
these revenues exclude compensation for City College administrators, but otherwise would be subject to the
budgetary and fiscal procedures of that independent District.

How “B” Got on the Ballot

On May 26, 2016, the San Francisco Community College Board voted 7 to 0 to place Proposition B on the
ballot.

This measure requires 662/3% affirmative votes to pass.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of this measure. Some of the words used in the ballot digest are

explained in Words you need to know >.

HideProponent’s Argument in Favor of Proposition B

Vote Yes on Proposition B to Renew the City College Parcel Tax

Every year City College of San Francisco (CCSF) serves tens of thousands of students of all incomes, ages and
ethnicities across the city. City College is there for everyone. San Franciscans need to renew the school’s
parcel tax by voting YES on Proposition B this fall so it can continue its mission.

City College remains cost effective and, is in some cases the only option for higher education, job training,

ESL and more for San Franciscans.

Proposition B’s funding is crucial for teachers, staff and students alike - it will help teachers and other
employees receive the living wage they deserve and ensure all students have access to the job training,
language skills, strong academic classes, and programs they need.

If we don’t renew this parcel tax, CCSF’s accreditation process will be more difficult and its current challenges
prolonged. Further, without the parcel tax, serious cuts would need to be made in all areas, including faculty
and staff positions and college support services.

We urge a YES vote on Proposition B to extend the parcel tax for the next 15 years at the rate of $99 per
parcel. Proposition B will bring in approximately $19 million a year - money that is badly needed to attract
and retain great teachers and keep the college’s core academic and job training mission accessible to all.

Proposition B provides crucial local funding that the state cannot take away and is guaranteed for City College
of San Francisco. With tough accountability requirements including mandatory independent audits, citizens’
oversight committee, and a 15 year expiration date, we can be sure the money is spent as intended.

For more information go to www.savecitycollege.com.

City College is for everyone. Vote YES on Proposition B.

Senator Mark Leno

San Francisco Democratic Party Chair Cindy Wu
Recology CEO Mike Sangiacomo

City College Board of Trustees President Rafael Mandelman

Arguments are the opinions of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency. Arguments are
published as submitted. Spelling and grammatical errors have not been corrected.

HideLegal Text

San Francisco Community College District
Local Control Funding Measure B

INTRODUCTION AND PURPOSE

To continue funding for core programs in math, science and writing,provide local reliable funding for City College of
San Francisco that cannot be taken by the State, attract and retain highly-qualified teachers, avoid employee layoffs,
ensure an affordable education to local students, keep libraries open, maintain programs to prepare students for workforce
training and transfer to four-year universities, provide counselors, with no proceeds used for administrators’ salaries,
benefits and pensions, the San Francisco Community College District (“District”) proposes to renew and extend its
expiring voter approved local control parcel tax for a period of fifteen years from starting date of July 1,2017 at a rate of
$99 per parcel per year (the existing Measure A which expires on June 30, 2021 shall be replaced by this Measure starting
July 1,2017), and to implement accountability measures, including citizen oversight, to ensure the funds are used to help:

•	Attract and retain highly-qualified teachers;

•	Protect quality academic instruction in core subjects, such as math, science, reading and writing;

•	Keep school libraries open;

•	Maintain programs that prepare students for the workforce;

•	Provide counselors to students;

•	Offset State budget cuts; and

•	Keep technology and instructional support up-to-date.

The proceeds of the parcel tax shall be deposited into a separate account created by the District.

DEFINITION OF “PARCEL”

For purposes of the high quality education parcel tax, the term “Parcel” means any parcel of land which lies wholly
or partially within the boundaries of the San Francisco Community College District, that receives a separate tax bill for ad
valorem property taxes from the City and County of San Francisco Assessor. All property that is otherwise exempt from or
upon which are levied no ad valorem property taxes in any year shall also be exempt from the local control parcel tax in
such year.

For purposes of this education and local control parcel tax, any such “Parcels” which are (i) contiguous, and (ii) used
solely for owner-occupied, single-family residential purposes, and (iii) held under identical ownership may, by submitting
to the District an application of the owners thereof by June 15 of any year, be treated as a single “parcel” for purposes of
the levy of the high quality education and local control parcel tax.

REDUCTION IN TAX IF RESULT IS LESS OTHER GOVERNMENT SUPPORT

The collection of the local control parcel tax is not intended to decrease or offset any increase in local, state or federal
government revenue sources that would otherwise be available to the District during the period of the parcel tax. In the
event that the levy and collection does have such an effect, the District may cease the levy or shall reduce the parcel tax to
the extent that such action would restore the amount of the decrease or offset in other revenues.

ACCOUNTABILITY MEASURES

In accordance with the requirements of California Government Code Sections 50075.1 and 50075.3, the following
accountability measures, among others, shall apply to the parcel tax levied in accordance with this Measure: (a) the
specific purposes of the parcel tax shall be those purposes identified above; (b) the proceeds of the parcel tax shall be
applied only to those specific purposes identified above; (c) a separate, special account shall be created into which the
proceeds of the local control parcel tax must be deposited; and (d) an annual written report shall be made to the Board of
Trustees of the District showing (i) the amount of funds collected and expended from the proceeds of the local control
parcel tax and (ii) the status of any projects or programs required or authorized to be funded from the proceeds of the

parcel tax, as identified above. In addition to the accountability measures required by law, the District will maintain its
existing Citizens’ Oversight Committee to provide oversight as to the expenditure of parcel tax revenues.

http://voterguide.sfelections.org/en/city-college-parcel-tax