EXHIBIT B

FULL TEXT OF THE AUTHORITY ORDINANCE 16-02
IMPOSING A RETAIL TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX AND
TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENT EXPENDITURE PLAN

PLACER COUNTY LOCAL TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY

IN THE MATTER OF: AN ORDINANCE
ADOPTING THE PLACER COUNTY LOCAL
TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY
TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENT PLAN
AND RETAIL TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX

ORDINANCE NO, 164)2

The attached Ordinance Ned 16-02 was duly passed by the Placer County Local Transportation
Authority at a regular meeting held June 22,2016, by the following vote on roll call:

AYES:	Baker, Reach, Holmes, Kader, Nesbitt, Rohan, RueUn, Treabess, Dhler

NOES:

ABSENT: None '

PLACER COUNTY
LOCAL TRANSPORTATION
AUTHORITY

Ordinance No. 16-02

Placer County Local Transportation Authority
Transportation Improvement Plan
And Retail Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance

PREAMBLE

A properly functioning and well-maintained, transportation system in Placer County
Is a key component of our high quality of life and ability to attract jobs to our region.
However, the decline In the purchasing power of the gas tax, and the increasing
restrictions that the state and federal government have placed on their limited available
transportation funds, has led to a rapid deterioration of our existing streets, roads and
highways, and little to no available binding to expand our transportation network. Our
population Is expected to continue to grow and with it, the demands on our transportation
system will only Increase. Already, traffic and congestion are growing, and Placer County
residents spend an Increasing amount of time stuck In traffic.

Maintenance and repairs of existing roadways and improvements to relieve
congestion cannot be accomplished with available funds. Without additional funds, the
system will bog down and pavement will crumble into permanent disrepair. State and
federal highway funds are inadequate and competition for funds Is increasing.. Projects
In regions of the state which have a local source of transportation funds, primarily through
local retail transactions and use tax funds, have been and will continue to be viewed
much more favorably in the selection process of the California Transportation
Commission. Local governments must either generate revenues to expand our system
and maintain our Investments or watch the system collapse and endanger the health,
economy, welfare and safety of ail Placer County residents.

Enactment of a one-half of one percent (0.5%) retail transactions and use tax for
transportation to supplement traditional revenue sources, and revenues to be generated
through locally-adopted developer fees and assessment districts for transportation
Improvements, Is the only way local governments can generate the funds needed to be
sure the transportation system will serve the current and future travel needs of Placer
County.

)

The Racer County Transportation Planning Authority will continue to seek
maximum funding fdr transportation Improvements through state and federal programs.
The Authority will not provide retail transactions and use tax revenues to any city, town,
or to the County to replace revenues currently used by the city, town or the County for
transportation purposes; aU of the funds generated will be used to provide new funding
for expanding our transportation network and maintenance of the existing transportation
network.

It Is Important that the people of Placer County know that the funds generated by
this proposed retail transactions and use tax for transportation purposes will be used only
for the transportation expenditure plan detailed in this ordinance, and therefore, the
Authority will establish a robust system of public accountability In conjunction with the
tax, including a taxpayer oversight committee which will perform independent audits of
the spending on an annual basts and report the findings of the audit to the people of
Placer County.

The Placer county Local Transportation Authority ordains as follows:

SECTION I .SUMMARY, This Ordinance provides for the adoption of a County
transportation expenditure plan, the imposition of a retail transactions and use tax
of one-half of one percent (0,5%) for a period of thirty (30) years, the authority
to issue bonds secured by such taxes, the administration of the tax proceeds, and
the creation of an independent Citizen Oversight Committee to review the
mandatory annual financial audits of program expenditures and to produce an
annual report of findings to the Authority Board of Directors and the public.

SECTION II. .DEFINITIONg. The following definitions shall apply in this Ordinance:

A.	"Authority" means the Placer County Local Transportation Authority, as set
forth In Government Code Sections 67910 and 67911. The Racer County
Transportation Planning Agency was designated as the Authority by the
Placer County Board of Supervisors on August 22, 2006.

B.	"County* means the County of Placer.

C.	"Expenditure Ran" or "Plan* means the Placer County Transportation
Improvement Plan (attached as Exhibit A) and adopted as part of this
Ordinance Including any future amendments thereto.

D.	T&hoe Area" means the area east of toe summit of the Sierra Nevada
Mountains located within Placer County, including, but not limited to, Tahoe
City, Kings Beach, Cameilan Bay, Squaw Valley, Martis Valley, Northstar,
and Alpine Meadows.

E.	"Transportation Tax" means the retail transactions and use tax created by
this Ordinance.

2

SECTION III. AUTHORITY. This Ordinance Is enacted, in part, pursuant to the
provisions of Division 19 (commencing with section 180000) of the Public Utilities
Code and Part 1,6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code.

SECTION IV. IMPOSITION OF RETAIL TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX, This retail
transactions and use tax shall be in addition to any other taxes authorized by law,
Including any existing or future state or local sales tax or transactions and use tax.
Subject to voter approval of the same, the Authority shall impose, in the
incorporated and unincorporated territory of the County of Placer, the following
retail transactions and use tax for a thirty (30) year period commencing April 1,
2017 (referred to as the "Transportation Tax”):

A.	For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a retail
transactions tax is hereby Imposed upon all retailers In the Incorporated and
unincorporated territory of the County at the rate of one-half of one percent
(0.5%) of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible
personal property sold at retail In the County on and after the operative
date of this Ordinance.

B.	x An excise tax Is hereby Imposed on the storage, use or other consumption

in the County of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on
and after the operative date of this Ordinance for storage, use or other
assumption in the County at the rate of one-half of one percent (0.5%) of
the sales price of the property. This sales price shall Indude delivery
charges when such charges are subject to state sales or use tax, regardless
of the place to which delivery is made.

55CHON V. PURPOSES, This Ordinance Is adopted to achieve the following,
among other purposes, and directs that the provisions hereof be Interpreted In
order to accomplish those purposes:

A,	To impose a retail transactions, and use tax In accordance with the
' provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the

California Revenue and Taxation Code and Section 180050 et. seq. of the
Public Utilities Code which authorize the Authority to adopt this Ordinance
which shall be operative if a two-thirds (2/3rds) majority of the electors
voting on the measure vote to approve the Imposition of the tax at an
election called for that purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that Incorporates
provisions Identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of
California Insofar as those provisions are not inconsistent with the

3

requirements and limitations contained In Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a County-
wide transportation sales tax and provides a measure therefor that can be
administered and collected by the State Board of Equalization in a manner
that adapts Itself as fully as practicable to, and requires the least possible
deviation from, the existing statutory and administrative procedures
followed by the State Board of Equalization In administering and collecting
the California State Sales and Use Taxes.

D.	The funds generated by the Transportation Tax may only be used for
transportation purposes Including the administration of the Expenditure
Plan, as amended, Including defense or prosecution of legal actions related
thereto, the construction, acquisition, maintenance, and operation of
streets, roads, highways, including state highways and public transit
systems and for related transportation purposes, Including project
management and oversight of the projects to be funded using the
Transportation Tax, such as coordination with other responsible agencies
as well as project delivery and negotiation of project agreements. These
purposes include expenditures for planning, environmental reviews,
engineering and design costs, and related right-of-way acquisition.
Expenditures also include, but are not limited to, debt service on bonds or
other indebtedness, and expenses and reserves In connection wfch the
Issuance of the same.

SECTION VI. BONDING AUTHORITY. Pay-as-you-go financing Is the preferred
method of financing transportation Improvements and programs under this
Ordinance. However, the Authority may decide to use bond financing as an
alternative method if the scope of planned expenditures makes pay-as-you-go
financing Infeasible.

Upon voter approval of this Ordinance, the Authority shall have the power to sell
or issue, from time to time, on or before the collection of taxes, bonds, or other
evidence of Indebtedness, In an aggregate principal amount at any one time
outstanding not to exceed the estimated proceeds or the Transportation Tax, and
to secure such Indebtedness solely by way of future collection of the
Transportation Tax, for capital outlay expenditures for the purposes set forth In
Section V hereof. Including, but not limited to, carrying out the transportation
projects described In the Expenditure Plan.

SECTION VII. MAINTENANCE OF EFFORT. The Authority, by enactment of this
Ordinance, Intends the additional tends provided government agencies by this
Ordinance to supplement existing local revenues being used for transportation

purposes. The funds generated by the Transportation Tax shall not be used to.
replace existing transportation funding or to replace requirements for new
development to provide for Its own transportation needs. Under this Ordnance,
funding priorities should be given to addressing current transportation needs,
easing congestion, and Improving safety.

The local government agencies shall maintain their existing commitment of
transportation funds for transportation purposes, and the Authority shall enforce
this provision by appropriate actions, induding fiscal audits of the local agendes.
For purposes of this Section VII, the local agency shall have satisfied its
maintenance of effort requirement if it demonstrates that It has expended Funds
for local street Improvements and maintenance other than Transportation Taxes
allocated to It In an amount no less than an amount equal to the average
percentage of the general fund budget spent for local street Improvements and
maintenance for the five (5) fiscal years prior to the date when the local agency
submits Its report as required by the Expenditure Plan.

SECTION vm. TAHOE AREA SUBVENTION. After payment of the amount owed
to the Board of Equalization for collection of the Transportation Tax and
administrative costs of the Authority as provided In this Ordinance, the
Transportation Tax shall be allocated to the Placer County Board of Supervisors
for use for projects in the Tahoe Area In amounts as set forth In the Expenditure
Plan.

SECTION IX. ADMINISTRATION OF PLANS. The Authority shall impose the
Transportation Tax and. enter Into an agreement with the State Board of
Equalization to collect the funds, shall allocate revenues derived from the
Transportation Tax, and shall administer the Expenditure Plan, consistently with
the authority cited herein;

SECTION X» TRANSPARENCY, ACCOUNTABILITY^ AND ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS.
The Authority shall expend only that amount of the funds generated from the
Transportation Tax for staff support, audit, administrative expenses, and contract
services that Is necessary and reasonable to carry out its responsibilities pursuant
to Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and in no case shall the funds
expended for salaries and benefits exceed one percent (1%) of the annual amount
of revenue raised by the Transportation Tax net of the amount of foes paid to the
State Board of Equalization for collection of the sales tax and prior to the
distribution of the Transportation Taxes to the local jurisdictions as provided in the
Expenditure Plan (Exhibit A). Local Jurisdiction administrative costs are considered
separately and would also be limited to one percent (1%) of each jurisdiction's
Local Transportation Program under Section 3.3 of the Expenditure Plan (Exhibit
A). •

5

SECTION XI, OPERATIVE DATE. Subject to voter approval, this Ordinance shall
be operative on the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing more than
110 days after adoption of the Ordinance, but In no event earlier than April l,
2017. Prior to the operative date of the Ordinance, the Authority shall contract
with the State Board of Equalization to perform all functions incidental to the
administration and operation of the Ordinance; provided that if the Authority shall
not have contracted with the State Board of Equalization prior to the operative
date, It shall nevertheless so contract and, In such case, the operative date shall
be the first day of the first calendar quarter following the execution of such a
contract

SECTION XII. ELECTION. The Authority requests the Board of Supervisors to call
an election for voter approval of this Ordinance, which election shall be held on
November 8,2016. The election shall be ailed and conducted in the same manner
as provided by law for the conduct of elections by a county. Pursuant to Section
180203 of the Public Utilities Code, the sample ballot to be mailed to the voters
shall be the full proposition as set forth In this Ordinance, and the voter Information
handbook shall include the entire Expenditure Plan. Approval of this Ordinance,
and the imposition of the Transportation Tax, shall require the affirmative vote of
two-thirds (2/3rds) of the electors voting on the proposition at the election
described in this section. The proposition to be placed on the ballot shall read
substantially as follows:

"Shall Placer County:

•	Reconfigure the 80/65 Interchange to relieve congestion;

•	Better maintain roads countywide;

•	Prwlde dedicated funding for rural road pothole repair;

•	Widen roadways/expand transit;

•	-. Expand Highway 65 in each direction;

•	Provide safe routes to school;

•	Add transit for senlors/dlsabled persons;	and

•	Widen Baseline Road and build Placer Parkway creating 1-80

alternatives,

By establishing a one-haif-cent sales tax, limited to 30 years, raising

$53 million per year, with Independent audits, citizens' oversight, and

Increasing eligibility for state and federal matching?

YES	NO	 "

SECTION XML EXPENDITURE PLAN AMENDMENTS. The Expenditure Plan for
Transportation Tax funds may only be amended as Follows: (i) initiation of the

6

amendment by the Authority reciting findings of necessity; and (2) approval by
the city or town councils representing both.a majority of the cities or townsjn the
oounty and a majority of the population residing In the Incorporated areas of the
County; and (3) approval by the Board of Supervisors*

Commencing on or before 2026 and at least every ten (10) years thereafter, the
Authority shall review and, when necessary, propose revisions to the Expenditure
Plan, Such revisions shall be submitted for approval according to the procedures
set forth in this Section XID, Until revisions to the Expenditure Plan have been
approved and become effective, the then-existing Expenditure Plan shall remain
In full force and effect.

SECTION XIV, ANNUAL APPROPRIATIONS LIMIT, "me annua! appropriations limit
of the Authority established pursuant to Section 4 of Article XIIIB of the California
Constitution and Section 180202 of the Public Utilities Code shall be $450 million.
The appropriations limit shall be subject to adjustment as provided by law.

SECTION XV. SEVERABILITY. If any provision of this Ordinance, or the application
thereof, Is for any reason held invalid or unenforceable by a court of competent
Jurisdiction to a person or circumstance, the remainder of the Ordinance and the
application of such provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be
affected thereby, and the Authority declares that It would have passed each part
of this Ordinance Irrespective of the validity of any other part.

SECTION XVI. PLACE OF SALE. For the purposes of this Ordinance, all retail sales
are consummated at the place of business of the retailer unless the tangible
persona] property sold Is delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state
destination or to a common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination. The
gross receipts from such sates shall Include delivery charges, when such changes
are subject to the state sales and use tax, regardless of the place to which deliver/
is made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the State
or has more than one place of business, the place or places at which the retail
sales are consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations to be
prescribed and adopted by the State Board of Equalization.

SECTION XVII. ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW. Except as otherwise
provided In this Ordinance and except insofar as they are Inconsistent with the
provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the
provisions of Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a part of this Ordinance as
though folly set forth herein.

7

SECTIQN.XVni. -LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF STATE LAW AND COLLECTION
OF USE TAXES, In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code:

A.	Wherever the State of CaBfornie is named or referred to as the taxing
agency, the name of the Authority shall be substituted therefor. However,
the substitution shall not be made when:

1.	The word ’’State" Is used as a part of the tide erf the State Controller,
State Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Board of Equalization,
State Treasury, or the Constitution of the State of California;

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or
against the Authority or any agency, officer, or employee thereof
rather than by or against the State Board of Equalization, In
performing the functions incident to the administration or operation
of this Ordinance.

3.	In those sections, Including, but not necessarily limited to sections
referring to the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where
the result of the substitution would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales,
storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property
which would not otherwise be exempt from this tax while such
sales, storage, use or other consumption remain subject to tax
by the State under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or
other consumption of tangible personal property which would
not be subject to tax by the state under the said provision of
that code.

4.	•	In	Sections	6701,6702 (except In the last sentence thereof), 6711,

6715, 6737,6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

B.	The word "County” shall be substituted for the word "State0 in the phrase
"retailer engaged in business In this State" in Section 6203 and in the
definition of that phrase In Section 6203.

SECTION XIX. PERMIT NOT REQUIRED. If a seller’s permit has been Issued to a
retailer under. Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional
transactor's permit shall not be required by this Ordinance.

&

SECTION XX,.B(EMPnQNS AND EXCLUSIONS.

A.	There Shalt be excluded from the measure of the Transportation Tax the
amount of any sales tax or use tax Imposed by the State of California or by
any city, city and county, or county pursuant to the BradJey-fiums Uniform
Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the amount of any state-administered
transactions or use tax.

B,	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of the
transactions tax the gross receipts from:

1,	Sales of tangtoie personal property, other than fuel or petroleum
products, to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally
outside the County in which the sale Is made and directly and
exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons
or property under the authority of the laws of this State, the United
States, or any foreign government.

2,	Sales or property to be used outside the County which is shipped to
a point outside the County, pursuant to the contract of sale, by
delivery to such point by the retailer or the retailer's agent, or by
delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at
such point For the purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point
outside the County shall be satisfied:

a.	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles)
subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing
with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehlde Code> aircraft
licensed In compliance with Section 21411 of the Public
Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels registered under
Division 3,5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle
Code by registration to an out-of-County address and by a
declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer,
stating that such address Is, In fact, his or her principal place
of residence; and

b.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place
of business out-of-County and declaration under penalty of
perjury, signed by the buyer, that the vehicle will be operated
from that address.

3,	, The sale of tangible personal property If the seller Is obligated to

furnish the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered
Into prior to the operative date of this Ordinance.

9

4.	A (ease of tangible persona! property which is a continuing sale of
such property, for any period of time for which the lessor Is obligated
to lease the property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the
operative date of this Ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, the
sale or lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be
obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for
which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right
to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such
right Is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax Imposed by this Ordinance, the

storage, use or other consumption In this County of tangible personal

property;

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a
transactions tax under any state-administered transactions and use
tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of
aircraft and used or consumed by such operators directly and
exclusively In the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons
or property for hire or compensation under a certificate of public
convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this State,
the United States, or any foreign government. This exemption Is In
addition to the exemptions provided In Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of California.

3.	If the purchaser Is obligated to purchase the properly for a fixed
price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date
of this Ordinance.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the
tangible personal property arises under a lease which Is a continuing
purchase of such property for any period of time for which the lessee
Is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by a lease prior
to the operative date of this Ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section,
storage, use, or other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of
any right or power over, tangible personal property shall be deemed
not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of
time for which any party to the contract or lease has the
unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice,
whether or not such right is exercised.

10

6.	Except as provided In subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged In
business In the County shall not be required to collect use tax from
the purchaser of tangible personal property, unless the retailer ships
or delivers the property into the County or participates within the
County in making the sale of the property. Including, but not limited
to, soliciting or receiving the order, either directly or Indirectly, at a
place of business of the retailer In the County or through any
representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person In
the County under the authority of the retailer.

7.	"A retailer engaged in business in the County" shall also include any
retailer of any of the following: vehicles subject to registration
pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3
of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section
21411 of the Public Utilities .Code, or undocumented vessels
registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the
Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to collect use tax from
any purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft
at an address in the County.

0,	Any person subject to use tax under this Ordinance may credit against that
tax any transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a
County imposing, or retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part
1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code with respect to the sale
to the person of the property the storage, use or other consumption of
which Is subject to the use tax.

SI

mm

XXI,___INPgPENPEN3L.Cmaw OVERSIGHT.. COMMITTEE. An

Independent Citizen Oversight Committee shall be formed, as provided in the
Expenditure Plan.

SECTION XXII. AMENDMENTS. All amendments subsequent to the effective
date of this Ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code
relating to sales and use taxes and which are not Inconsistent with Part 1.6 and
Part 1,7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and all amendments to
Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall
automatically become a part of this Ordinance, provided hcwever, that no such
amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax Imposed by this Ordinance,

SECTION XM.IL ENJOINING COLLECTION FQRMPPEN. No Injunction or writ
of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall Issue In any suit, action or
proceeding in any court against the State or the Authority, or against any officer
of the State or the Authority, to prevent or enjoin the collection under this

ii

Ordinance, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax
or any amount of tax required to be collected.

SECTION XXIV. EFFECTIVE DATE. This Ordinance relates to the levying
and collecting of the County retail transactions and use taxes and shall take effect
Immediately.

SECTION XXV, ENVIRONMENTAL This Ordinance is not a project as defined in
Section 15378 of the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines and
Is therefore exempt from CEQA requirements. Prior to commencement of any
project Included In the Expenditure Plan, any necessary environmental review
required by CEQA shall be completed.

SECTION XXVI. ADOPTION OF ORDINANCE. This Ordinance was Introduced and
adopted at the regular meeting of the Authority's governing Board on June 22,
2016.

June 22, 2016

By:

Susan Rohan, Chair

Placer County local Transportation Authority

ATTESTED:

By:

Placer County local Transportation Authority

12

#

(A

Before the Board of Supervisors
County of Placer, State of California

In the matter of:

A Resolution directing the Placer County
Clerk-Recorder-Registrar of Voters to Place a
Ballot Measure on the Consolidated
November 8,2016 General Election Ballot.

Resolution No: 2016-144

The following Resolution was duly passed by the Board of Supervisors of the County
of Placer at a regular meeting held July 12,2016, by the following vote on roll call:

Ayes:

Noes:

Absent:	NONE

DURAN, IIOLMES, UHLER, MONTGOMERY, WEYGANDT
NONE

Signed and approved by me after its passage.
Attest:

Clencof said Board

(A

a £



n

WHEREAS, on August 22, 2006, the Placer County 1	)6-

258 and designated the Placer County Transportation	   a	meal	transportation

authority for purposes of the Local Transportation Authority and Improvement Act; and

WHEREAS, the Placer County Local Transportation Authority (hereafter the “Authority”) is the local
transportation authority established and operating pursuant to the provisions of Division 19 (commencing
with Section 180000) of the California Public Utilities Code, and Part 1.6 (commencing with Section
7251) of Division 2 of the California Revenue and Taxation Code; and,

WHEREAS, on June 22, 2016, the Authority adopted Authority Ordinance No. 16-02 and the Placer
County Transportation Improvement Expenditure Plan by unanimous vote of the Authority Board, which
imposes a retail transaction and use tax at a rate of one-half of one percent (0.5%) for thirty years

	po
	
	CT'
r _	C—
r  <r . _•	P 3!
	5 n
v-	
cp. •	§ t-
n	O
	*r
	CC

commencing on April 1, 2017, which shall be operative if a two-thirds (2/3rds) majority of the electors
voting on the measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax at an election call for that purpose; and

WHEREAS, the on June 22,2016, the Authority adopted Resolution No. 16-03, requesting that the Placer
County Board of Supervisors call a special election and consolidate that special election with the
November 8,2016 statewide presidential general election for the purpose of obtaining voter approval of
Authority Ordinance No. 16-02; and

WHEREAS, Section 180203 of the California Public Utilities Code requires the County to call and
conduct the special election in the same manner as provided by law for the conduct of special elections of
the County and requires the Authority to reimburse the County for its costs in conducting the special
election if the measure is approved by the voters;

NOW THEREFORE, THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS OF THE COUNTY OF PLACER, STATE OF
CALIFORNIA, HEREBY; RESOLVES, DETERMINES, AND ORDERS AS FOLLOWS:

1.	Call for Election. The Board hereby orders a special election for the purpose of submitting to the
voters the question of whether Authority Ordinance No. 16-02, imposing a retail transactions and use tax
at a rate of one-half of one percent (0.5%) for thirty years to provide supplemental funding for
transportation improvements throughout Placer County should be approved or rejected. This Resolution
constitutes the order of the Board to call such election.

2.	Election Date. The date of the election shall be November 8,2016, and shall be a County-wide
special election, consolidated with the Statewide Presidential General Election.

3.	Purpose of Election; Ballot Proposition. The purpose of this election shall be for the voters of the
County to vote on the approval or rejection of Authority Ordinance No. 16-02. The ballot language for
measure as adopted and approved by the Authority is attached hereto as Exhibit A The full text of
Authority Ordinance 16-02, that also contains the question to be put before the voters is attached as

Exhibit B. The ballot measure shall be submitted as a proposition on the ballot as Measure_, and the

County Clerk-Registrar of Votes is hereby instructed to place Measure__on the ballot consistent with

the California Elections Code and in the form attached as Exhibit A and to include the full text Authority
Ordinance 16-02 and the Placer County Transportation Improvement Expenditure Plan, attached to the
ordinance as an exhibit

4.	Authority for Election. The authority for ordering the election is contained in CaL Public Utilities
Code Sections 180201 and 180302 and California Elections Code Sections 9342 and 12001.

5.	Delivery of this Resolution. The Gerk of this Board is hereby authorized and directed to send or
hand deliver a copy of this Resolution to the County Clerk-Registrar of Voters by no later than August 12,
2016.

5.	Ballot Arguments. Any and all members of this Board are hereby authorized to act as an author
of any ballot argument prepared in connection with the election, including a rebuttal argument. The
Chairman of the Board, the County Executive Officer, or their designees, are hereby authorized to
perform all acts necessary to place this ballot measure on the ballot.

6.	Consolidation of Election; Election Sendees. The Board of Supervisors is hereby requests this
election be consolidated with any and all other elections to be held on November 8, 2016. The Board of
Supervisors hereby directs the County Elections Official to render all services necessary in connection
this this measure. California Elections Code Sections 9160, et. seq., shall apply to this consolidated
special election, except that a fiscal impact statement by the County Auditor is not required.

7.	Severability. If any section, subsection, phrase or clause of this Resolution, or its application to
any person or circumstance, is for any reason held to be invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity
of the remaining portions of this Resolution, or their application to any other person or circumstance. The
Board declares that it would have adopted this Resolution and each section, subsection, phrase or clause
thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, subsections, sentences, phrases or clauses, or
their application to any person or circumstance, shall be declared invalid.

8.	Effective Date. This Resolution shall be effective immediately upon its adoption.

EXHIBIT A

BALLOT MEASURE PROPOSING A RETAIL
TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX FOR
COUNTYWIDE TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENTS

Measure _______

Shall Placer County reconfigure the 80/65 Interchange to relieve congestion;
better maintain roads countywide; provide dedicated funding for rural road
pothole repair; widen roadways/expand transit; expand Highway 65 in each
direction; provide safe routes to school; add senlors/disabled persons transit;
widen Baseline Road and build Placer Parkway creating 1-80 alternatives, by
establishing a one-half cent sales tax, limited to 30 years, raising $53 million
annually, with independent audits, citizens' oversight, and Increasing eligibility
for state/federal matching?

YES

NO

EXHIBIT A

BALLOT MEASURE PROPOSING A RETAIL
TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX FOR
COUNTYWIDE TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENTS

Measure________

Shall Placer County reconfigure the interchange to relieve congestion; 9
better maintain roads countywide; provide dedicated funding for rural road {°
pothole repair; widen roadways/expand transit; expand Highway 65 in each
direction; provide safe routes to school; add seniors/dlsabled persons transit; i \
widen Baseline Road and build Placer Parkway creating 1-80 alternatives, by <=)
establishing a one-half cent sales tax, limited to 30 yearsTralsing $53 million ' 7
annually, with Independent audits, citizens' oversight, and Increasing eligibility ^
for state/federal matching?	y

YES	NO

EXPENDITURE PLAN
EXHIBIT A TO
ORDINANCE NO. 16-02

Placer County
Transportation Improvement Plan

This TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENT PLAN, which shall act as the County's
Expenditure Plan (the "Plan"), was prepared by the Placer County Local Transportation
Authority (the "Authority7') for the purpose of establishing a one-half of one percent
(0.5%) retail transactions and use tax for transportation purposes (the "Transportation
Tax") to be collected for thirty (30) years, if approved by the voters on November 8,
2016. This is proposed by the Authority as a means to fill the shortfall in funding needed
to: implement necessary highway, rail, and transit projects; secure new transportation
corridors through environmental clearance and right of way purchases; provide adequate
maintenance and Improvements on the local street and road system; promote economic
growth throughout the County; and meet the needs of commuters and the specialized
needs of the growing senior and disabled population.

CHAPTER 1: GOALS AND OBJECTIVES

1.1	MAINTAIN AND IMPROVE THE QUALITY OF LIFE IN PLACER COUNTY BY
SUPPLEMENTING EXISTING FUNDS FOR TRANSPORTATION

Reduce current congestion and provide adequate transportation facilities to
accommodate reasonable growth in the future.

Provide funding for the adequate maintenance and improvement of local streets and
roads in the cities, town, and unincorporated areas.

Enhance Placer County's ability to secure state and federal funding for transportation by
offering local matching funds.

1.2	PROVIDE FOR ACCOUNTABILITY IN THE EXPENDITURE OF TAXPA YER
FUNDS

Provide for mandatory dedication of Transportation Tax funds only for the transportation
improvements and programs identified In this Plan and no other purpose.

i

Provide for a mandatory, annual financial audit of program expenditures to insure that all
funds are spent in accordance with this voter adopted Plan and associated legal
ordinance.

Provide for an independent Citizen Oversight Committee to review the mandatory annual
financial audits of program expenditures and to produce an annual report of findings to
the Board and the public.

Provide for a Maintenance of Effort requirement in funds made available to city, town,
and County governments for local street and road programs to Insure the new money for
this purpose is adding to current funding levels.

Provide for the strict limitation of administrative staff costs in implementing this Plan, by
limiting, in law, funds expended for salaries and benefits to no more than
one percent (1%) of the annual amount of revenues raised by the Transportation Tax as
provided in Section X of the Ordinance, net of the amount of fees paid to the State Board
of Equalization for collection of the sales tax.

Provide for this Plan to be reviewed at least every ten (10) years for the period it is in
effect to ensure that the changing needs and priorities of the jurisdictions are met, as
provided in Section XIII of the Ordinance.

Provide for the mandatory termination of the Transportation Tax in thirty (30) years from
the operative date, requiring additional voter approval at a County general election for
any extension.

1.3	PROVIDE FOR EQUITY IN THE DISTRIBUTION OF TRANSPORTA TION TAX

REVENUES

Address the unique needs of each of the areas of the County.

Provide a reasonable balance between competing highway, rail, transit,
bicycle/pedestrian, and local streets and road needs.

Return to the Tahoe Area a proportional share of the Transportation Tax generated in
that area.

1.4	PROVIDE FOR LOCAL CONTROL OF THE TRANSPORTATION
IMPROVEMENT PLAN

Provide for cost effective, local administration of the Plan through the existing Placer
County Transportation Planning Authority. No new agency would be required to
administer these funds.

2

Delegate appropriate administrative responsibility to the cities, town, and the County and
other local agencies designated by a city, town, the County, or the Authority for local
programs.

CHAPTER 2: TAXPAYER ACCOUNTABILITY SAFEGUARDS

2.1	LEGAL DEDICA TION OF FUNDS

Funds generated by the Transportation Tax, net of the amount of fees paid to the State
Board of Equalization, may only be used for transportation purposes as described in the
Ordinance governing this Plan, including the acquisition, construction, environmental
mitigation, maintenance, and operation of streets, roads, highways, including state
highways and public transit systems and equipment, and for related transportation
purposes. These purposes include but are not limited to expenditures for planning,
environmental reviews, engineering and design costs, related right-of-way acquisition,
and construction, engineering, project management, and administration.

2.2	MANDA TORY ANNUAL FISCAL AUDIT

No less than annually, the Authority shall conduct an independent fiscal audit of the
expenditure of all funds generated by the Transportation Tax. The audit, which shall be
made available to the public, shall report on evidence that the expenditure of funds is in
accordance with this Plan as adopted by the voters in approving the Ordinance on
November 8, 2016. In addition, the audit shall determine compliance with the
Maintenance of Effort requirements and requirements described in Section 3.3 of this
Plan entitled "Local Transportation Programs." The audit shall also ensure that no more
than one percent (1%) of the annual amount of Transportation Tax is used for
administrative staff salaries and benefits in implementing this Plan, as required under
Section X of the Ordinance.

2.3	INDEPENDENT CITIZEN OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE

An eight (8) member Independent Citizen Oversight Committee shall be formed to review
the annual independent fiscal audit of the expenditure of the Transportation Tax funds
and issue an annual report on its findings regarding compliance with the requirements of
the Expenditure Plan and the Ordinance to the Authority Board of Directors. The annual
report shall also be made available to the public. Membership in the Independent Citizen
Oversight Committee shall be composed of one registered voter appointed by the
governing body of each city and town, and two appointed by the Placer County Board of
Supervisors. The two appointees of the County shall include at least one representing
the Tahoe Area. Persons currently employed by the County of Placer or any incorporated
city or town therein, or currently serving as a city or town councilmember or member of
the Board of Supervisors, are not eligible for membership on the Citizen Oversight
Committee.

3

In the event a new city or town is incorporated, the Independent Citizen Oversight
Committee membership would be expanded to include one voter appointed by the
governing body of that new city or town.

2.4	MANDA TORY PLAN UPDA TE AND TERMINA UON OF TRANSPORTA TION

TAX

This Plan shall be reviewed by the Authority at least every ten (10) years that the
Transportation Tax is in effect to reflect current and changing transportation priorities
and needs in the County, as defined by the duly elected local government representatives
on the Authority Board. Any changes to this Plan must be adopted in accordance with
Section XIII of the Ordinance and with current law in effect at the time of the update,
and must be based on findings of necessity for change by the Authority. The
Transportation Tax authorized to be collected by the voters shall expire in exactly thirty
(30) years, unless the voters approve an extension of the Transportation Tax prior to the
expiration date, as may be required under state law in effect at the time of the vote for
extension.

CHAPTER 3: SPECIFIC TRANSPORTATION PROGRAMS TQ_.BE FUNDED

3.1	MAJOR HIGHWA Y/ ROAD PROGRAMS - 44.75%

Many more state highway improvement projects are needed to deal with
congestion and safety problems in Placer County than existing state and federal
revenues can fund. Programmed and projected formula funds from these sources
over the thirty (30) years are estimated to be $117 million and will fund about 8%
of the improvements needed and identified in this Plan. Funds generated by the
Transportation Tax will supplement those funding sources with an estimated $716
million and, along with an estimated $715 million in developer impact fees, will
cover the remaining costs estimated to accomplish these improvements. The
actual amount of funds available for expenditure on state highway
improvement projects from the identified sources and the amount
expended for such purposes may vary from these estimates.

44.75% of the Transportation Tax is allocated to Major Highway/Road Projects.
The Major Highway/Road projects to be implemented with the Transportation Tax
revenues are as follows:

4

ROUTE	LIMITS	PROJECT
I-80/SR 65	Interchange Phase 1-3	Improve interchange operations and capacity
n-80	I-80/SR 174 Interchange I-80/Rocklin Road Interchange I-80/Horseshoe Bar Rd Interchange	Improve interchange capacity and operations
1-80	Douglas Blvd to Riverside Ave (westbound)  SR 65 to Rocklin Rd (eastbound)	Add/extend auxiliary lanes
SR 65	Galleria Blvd/Stanford Ranch Blvd to Lincoln Blvd.	Widen to 3-5 lanes each direction
SR 65	SR 65/Nelson Lane Interchange	Improve to grade  separated  interchange
SR 49	1-80 to Dry Creek Road	Operational and safety improvements including widening, bikeways, sidewalks, signal  synchronization and complete streets
Baseline  Road	Foothills Blvd to SR 70/99	Widen to 4-6 lanes
Placer  Parkway	SR 65 to SR 70/99	Construct 4 lane expressway

The final scope and project limits of all improvements proposed for the
State Highway system will be determined through the environmental
clearance process.

The Authority may add additional Major Hlghway/Road projects, should the
Transportation Tax produce more revenue than now predicted or the Authority be
more successful than anticipated in attracting state/federal matching funds,
developer impact fees, or obtaining other grants and funds for transportation
infrastructure purposes.

5

3.2.	RAIL AND TRANSIT PROGRAM -11,875%

This Plan will provide an estimated $190 million of Transportation Taxes to expand
rail, add bus rapid transit, and implement services and continue and expand
programs to meet the transit needs of seniors, disabled persons and commuters.

3.2.	a, Transportation Services for Seniors and Disabled

Persons

Seniors and disabled persons are becoming an increasing percentage of
the population each year, and will drive demand for more frequent transit
service to more areas. In addition, a number of transportation programs
have been implemented which meet specialized needs for transportation
to medical services, social service agencies and programs, shopping and
other purposes that cannot be met by conventional transit. An estimated
$55 million in Transportation Tax funds will be used to expand these
transit services.

3.2.	b. Capitol Corridor Rail and Bus Rapid Transit Service

The existing Capitol Corridor rail service has provided a viable alternative
to the automobile for daily commuters to downtown Sacramento and
reduces traffic on 1-80. The current service level needs to be augmented
by expanding capacity between Sacramento and Roseville to bring ten
(10) round trips per day to Placer County. In addition, establishment of
frequent and timely bus rapid transit service that provides a reasonable
alternative to the automobile for existing and future daily commuters who
travel to and within the South Placer area is needed. An estimated $90
million of Transportation Tax funds will be made available for capital and
operations of these rail and bus rapid transit services and to match
available federal funds.

3.2.	c. Commuter Bus Service

Placer County's existing commuter bus services provide a safe,
convenient, and comfortable alternative to driving and removes
congestion from highways. There Is strong demand to expand this highly
popular effective service to connect more residential areas and major
employment centers. An estimated $45 million of Transportation Tax
funds will be made available for capital and operations of commuter bus
services, and to match available federal and state funds.

The actual amount of funds available for expenditure on transit and
other projects described in this Section from the identified sources and
the amount expended for such purposes may vary from these estimates.

6

3.3.	LOCAL TRANSPORTA TION PROGRAM ~ 30%

The local transportation systems, particularly local streets and roads, are critical
to the everyday movement of people within the cities, town, and the County.

Much of the road system is aging, has potholes, and is in need of expanded
maintenance and rehabilitation. New local roads adjacent to new residential and
business developments will continue to be constructed and paid for by the
developers. Current resources, without the establishment of Transportation Tax
revenues for transportation, cannot provide adequate funding to maintain the local
street and road system at the level necessary to adequately serve the public.

The priorities for local transportation vary among individual local jurisdictions.
While overlay, reconstruction, repair, and maintenance of the local road system
are needs common to all and is specifically allowable as an expenditure of these
funds, there are additional needs as well. Transportation Tax funds can be used
for transportation projects, transit operations, projects that support
transportation/land use coordination, and air quality improvement projects, as
designated by this Plan, Some examples of allowable projects include bike paths,
transit centers, widening of existing local roads, local matching funds for
transportation grants or earmarks, fueling stations for electric vehicles,
compressed natural gas or other alternative fuels, sidewalks and pedestrian paths,
transportation demand management programs, lighting, landscaping, security for
transportation facilities, park and ride lots, Safe Routes to School programs, and
traffic signal synchronization.

This Plan will provide an estimated $ 480 million of Transportation Taxes
specifically for these purposes. The funds will be distributed to the cities, town,
and the County by a formula based on an equal weighting of each jurisdiction's
proportionate share of the total County population and road miles, with a minimum
allocation of $250,000 for each jurisdiction. Allocations will be updated annually
based on California Department of Finance population data and reported road
miles.

The actual amount of funds available for expenditure on local
transportation projects from the identified sources and the amount
expended for such purposes may vary from these estimates.

In order to be eligible for these funds, each jurisdiction shall satisfy and continue
to satisfy the following requirements:

1.	On July 1 of each year, file a Five-Year Capital Improvement Program including
all capital transportation projects, Including projects funded by the jurisdiction's
share of the Transportation Tax.

7

2.	The portion of funds under this Program designated to the Non-Tahoe portion
of Placer County shall include a minimum of 50% into a "Placer County Rural Roads
Maintenance and Repair Fund." Expenditures from this Fund shall be restricted to
the repair, safety, and maintenance of existing county roads, and not used for
capacity increasing transportation improvements, in the areas represented by the
following Municipal Advisory Councils (MACs):

•	Donner Summit

•	Foresthili Forum

•	Horseshoe Bar/Penrvn

•	Meadow Vista

•	Newcastle/Qphir
. North Auburn

•	Rural Lincoln

•	Sheridan

•	Wfflmar/Aj2p|qgate/ftlfax

•	West Placer

The County shall consult with each MAC at least once annually as part of the
development of the MAC'S Five-Year Capital Improvement Program to identify local
priorities for resurfacing, pothole repair, and other road maintenance and repair.

3.	Adopt and administer a development impact fee program that requires new
development to pay a fair share of necessary transportation improvements
attributable to the new development.

4.	On July 1 of each year, file with the Authority an annual Expenditure Report
for the prior fiscal year identifying the amount of Transportation Taxes, developer
impact fees and other local agency funds expended by the jurisdiction and certify
that the maintenance of effort requirements of the Ordinance and the Expenditure
have been satisfied.

3.4	TAHOE AREA PROGRAM - 3%

The Tahoe Area of Placer County is that area east of the summit of the Sierra
Nevada Mountains located within Placer County, including but not limited to Tahoe
City, Kings Beach, Carnelian Bay, Squaw Valley, Martis Valley, Northstar, and
Alpine Meadows. This Plan is designed to recognize the unique transportation
challenges and priorities for the Tahoe Area by providing an estimated $48 million
for improvements such as:

•	Provide funding for the improvement and expansion of the bicycle and
pedestrian trail system, including maintenance and snow removal

•	Improve and Expand Public and Specialty Transit Service

•	Provide funding for Local Streets and Roads Improvements, including road
rehabilitation

8

• Improve Safety and Visibility at Major Intersections and Arterial Roads,
including snow removal

In order to be eligible for these funds, the Tahoe Area, as represented by the
County of Placer, will be required to file a Five-Year Capital Improvement Program,
updated annually, with the Authority outlining anticipated expenditures. The North
Lake Tahoe Transportation Authority, created pursuant to Government Code
Section 67964, will not have any role in developing or administering said programs
or funds unless expressly designated by subsequent action of the Placer County
Board of Supervisors.

3.5	BICYCLE AND PEDESTRIAN PROGRAM - 4.75%

Bicycle, pedestrian, and neighborhood electric vehicle (NEV) travel provide a viable
alternative for short distance trips and enhance the quality of life in our
neighborhoods. Safe, easy to use facilities in key areas support the attractiveness
of these clean and healthy transportation modes. An estimated $76 million in net
Transportation Tax funds will be used to match local, state, and federal funds to
construct and improve bicycle, pedestrian, and neighborhood electric vehicle
facilities and otherwise to support walkable and bikeable communities including
Safe Routes to School.

The Authority shall establish, in the first year after the adoption of this Ordinance,
the criteria by which projects are deemed eligible for funding under this Program,
and the selection criteria by which such eligible projects are selected. The eligibility
and selection criteria shall include safety, connectivity to schools and to the overall
system estimated demand/usage, ability to attract matching funds, and lack of
other funding In the overall Transportation Expenditure Plan.

3.6	COMPETITIVE PROJECTS PROGRAM - 4.625%

It is recognized that the Plan cannot anticipate every factor that could affect
transportation needs over its thirty (30) year life. New technologies, new travel
patterns, and new transportation modes are amongst the many possibilities that
may arise in the future. To provide the flexibility to meet those unanticipated
needs and opportunities, the Transportation Plan is anticipated to provide
approximately $74 million to a Competitive Projects Program. The Authority shall
establish, in the first year after the adoption of this Ordinance, the criteria by which
projects are deemed eligible for funding under this Program, and the selection
criteria by which such eligible projects are selected. The eligibility and selection
criteria shall include safety, congestion relief, ability to attract matching funds, and
lack of other funding in this overall Transportation Expenditure Plan. Any
Competitive Projects Program funds unspent at the conclusion of the thirty (30)
year Plan would be added to the Local Transportation Program.

9

CHAPTER 4: BOND FINANCING

Construction of the highway and rail projects and implementation of the local streets and
roads and other programs identified in this Plan are needed as soon as possible. In order
to accomplish this, some level of borrowing will be required, with debt to be repaid with
Transportation Tax revenues. The Authority will determine the extent of borrowing that
is reasonable and that can be supported by Transportation Tax revenues as the Plan is
implemented.

CHAPTER 5: ALLOCATIONS SUMMARY

TRANSPORTATION TAX REVENUE ALLOCATIONS	
Major Highway/Road Program	44.750%
Rail and Transit Program	11.875%
Bicycle and Pedestrian Proqram	4.750%
Local Transportation Program/Rural Roads Maintenance and Repair Program	30.000%
Tahoe Area Program	3.000%
Competitive Projects Program	4.625%
Transparency, Accountability, and Administration	1.000%
TOTAL	100.000%

The Authority may reallocate the expenditure of Transportation Taxes in any
given year on a different percentage basis provided that the percentage allocations set
forth above are achieved over the duration of the Ordinance.

CHAPTER 6. FUNDING FLEXIBILITY AND BONDING TO EXPEDITE
PROJECTS

To more quickly deliver transportation projects for the benefit of Placer County
residents, visitors, and businesses, the Authority may temporarily shift
Transportation Tax revenues and developer impact fees administered by the South
Placer Regional Transportation Authority (5PRTA) amongst projects in any given
year. However, the proportionate shares for funding contributions and purposes
over the 30-year period may not be changed without an amendment of this Plan
as required by law and Section XIII of the Ordinance. Transportation Tax revenues
subject to this temporary shift specifically exclude those annually allocated to the
cities, town, and County under the Local Transportation Program (Section 3.3 of
this Plan) and those allocated to the Tahoe Area under this Plan (although Tahoe
Area funds may be shifted between projects benefiting the Tahoe Area). Shifts
may not be made without previous consultation with the affected local agencies
and two-thirds majority approval of the Authority Board of Directors.

10

CHAPTER 7, INEgRMJNglilE PUBLIC OF LQQAL FUNDING SUPPORT

All projects using $1 million or more of Transportation Tax revenues shall be signed
to inform the public that Transportation Tax revenues support the project.

CHAPTER 8. SEVERANCE PROVISIONS

If any provision of this Plan, or the application thereof, is for any reason held
invalid and unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction to a person or
circumstance, the remainder of the Plan and the application of such provision to
other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby, and the Authority
declares that it would have passed each part of this Plan Irrespective of the validity
of any other part.

ti