CITY OF DEL MAR

(This Measure will appear on the ballot in the following form.)

MEASURE Q

To provide funding for general city services and infrastructure projects, such as
improvement of streets and sidewalks, utility undergrounding, public landscapes,
improvement of community parks, trails and recreation facilities; police, crime
prevention, fire prevention and other public safety services, shall an ordinance that
establishes an ongoing one-cent sales tax be adopted, providing an estimated 2
million dollars annually for the City of Del Mar, requiring citizen oversight and
independent audits, and all funds controlled locally?

This measure requires approval by a simple majority (over 50%) of the voters voting on the
measure. Full text of this measure follows the argument.

CITY ATTORNEY IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

The Del Mar City Council approved Measure Q at its meeting of August 1, 2016 and requested
that San Diego County place Measure Q on the ballot at the November 8, 2016 general election.
Measure Q is a transactions and use tax within the City of Del Mar that would tax retail sales at
one percent (1%) of the retail sales price, i.e. one cent for an item that costs one dollar.

The current sales tax rate in Del mar is 8%. The City receives 1%. The State General Fund
receives 3.9375%. San Diego County receives 1.8125%. Proposition 30 receives 0.25%.
Proposition 172 receives 0.5% and SANDAG receives 0.5%

Measure Q is a “transactions and use tax” as opposed to a “sales tax.” A transactions and use
tax is collected in the same manner as a traditional sales tax with minor exceptions. Measure Q
would authorize a one percent (1%) transactions and use tax which would increase the combined
sales tax rate in Del Mar to nine percent (9%). Taxes collected pursuant to Measure Q would be
deposited into the City’s general fund and used for any purpose for which general fund revenues
may be used. Measure Q is classified as a general tax and not a special tax. General tax
proceeds may be used for any municipal purpose including, but not limited to, undergrounding
utilities, street improvements, park improvements, police, fire, senior programs and youth
programs. Retailers collect the tax from customers at the time of a retail purchase and remit the
funds to the State Board of Equalization, which administers the tax. The tax will be paid by
anyone, including residents of Del Mar, who purchase goods at retail establishments within Del
Mar. In addition, Del Mar residents will be required to pay the tax when they purchase an
automobile, boat or aircraft anywhere in California and register it to an address in Del Mar.
Measure Q is estimated to generate approximately $2 million of revenue annually.

Measure Q requires oversight by a citizens committee. In addition, expenditures of Measure Q
funds are subject to audit by the City’s auditors. Any report by the citizens committee as well as
any audit are public records and available for inspection by any member of the public.

A “Yes” vote is a vote in favor of the tax. A “No” vote is a vote against the tax. Measure Q will be
approved if it receives a simple majority of “Yes” votes.

Is/ Leslie E. Devaney, City Attorney

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE Q

Based upon the goals of the Community Plan and community input, the City of Del Mar maintains
a list of capital projects that are important to the community, but must be scheduled for
completion over an extended period of time because funding is not available.

Increasing the sales tax rate by 1% enables the City to fund projects that are important to the
community, but not yet included in the City budget such as Shores Park development, the
undergrounding of utility wires, Streetscape, public landscapes, public safety and other General
Fund projects.

At present Del Mar keeps 1% of the current 8% sales tax with the first 7% going to the State and
County. The additional 1% increase would be fully retained by Del Mar. This increase would
provide approximately $1.6 to $2.0 million per year in new revenues to help the City fund
important projects.

Del Mar’s ability to increase the sales tax for local projects is subject to a District Sales Tax cap.
This means that if the available sales taxes are approved for County purposes, the City of Del
Mar may not be able to increase its sales tax rate. This measure would allow Del Mar to capture
its fair share of sales tax revenues for Del Mar specific projects.

Finally, it is estimated that the millions of visitors to Del Mar each year pay over 80% of the sales
tax collected in Del Mar. Residents pay less than 20% of the sales tax. In effect, the funding for
these priority projects is being spread across the millions of visitors to Del Mar each year through
this sales tax increase. In effect, visitors will then pay their fair share of costs to make
improvements in Del Mar.

SHERRYL L. PARKS
Mayor, City of Del Mar

TERRY L. SINNOTT
Member, Del Mar City Council

THOMAS K. MCGREAL
Chair, Del Mar Finance Committee

JAMES K. ECKMANN

Past Chair, Del Mar Finance Committee

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE Q

No argument against Measure Q was filed in the office of the City Clerk

PR-09D0-Q-2

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE Q

ORDINANCE NO. 916

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF DEL MAR IMPOSING
A TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX TO BE ADMINISTERED
BYTHE STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION

BE IT ORDAINED BYTHE VOTERS OF THE CITY OF DEL MAR:

SECTION 1: Chapter 3.32 ““Transactions and Use Tax”“ shall be added to the Del Mar
Municipal Code and shall read as follows:

Section 3.32.010 TITLE. This ordinance shall be known as the City of Del Mar
Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance. The City of Del Mar hereinafter shall be
called “City.” This ordinance shall be applicable in the incorporated territory of the City.

Section 3.32.020 OPERATIVE DATE. ““Operative Date”11 means the first day of the first
calendar quarter commencing more than 110 days after the adoption of this ordinance, the date
of such adoption being as set forth below.

Section 3.32.030 PURPOSE. This ordinance is adopted to achieve the following,
among other purposes, and directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to
accomplish those purposes:

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the provisions of
Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code
and Section 7285.9 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 which authorizes the City to adopt this tax
ordinance which shall be operative if a majority of the electors voting on the measure vote to
approve the imposition of the tax at an election called for that purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates provisions
identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California insofar as those
provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax and
provides a measure therefore that can be administered and collected by the State Board of
Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and requires the least
possible deviation from, the existing statutory and administrative procedures followed by the
State Board of Equalization in administering and collecting the California State Sales and Use
Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be administered in a
manner that will be, to the greatest degree possible, consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6
of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting the
transactions and use taxes, and at the same time, minimize the burden of record keeping
upon persons subject to taxation under the provisions of this ordinance.

Section 3.32.040 CONTRACT WITH STATE. Prior to the operative date, the City shall
contract with the State Board of Equalization to perform all functions incident to the
administration and operation of this transactions and use tax ordinance; provided, that if the
City shall not have contracted with the State Board of Equalization prior to the operative

PR-09D0-Q-3

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE Q (CONTINUED)

date, it shall nevertheless so contract and in such a case the operative date shall be the
first day of the first calendar quarter following the execution of such a contract.

Section 3.32.050 TRANSACTIONS TAX RATE. For the privilege of selling tangible
personal property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated
territory of the City at the rate of 1% of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of
all tangible personal property sold at retail in said territory on and after the operative date
of this ordinance. The tax imposed hereby shall be in addition to the tax imposed pursuant
to Chapter 3.24 of the Del Mar MunicipalCode.

Section 3.32.060 PLACE OF SALE. For the purposes of this ordinance, all retail
sales are consummated at the place of business of the retailer unless the tangible
personal property sold is delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination
or to a common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts from
such sales shall include delivery charges, when such charges are subject to the state
sales and use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is made. In the event a
retailer has no permanent place of business in the State or has more than one place of
business, the place or places at which the retail sales are consummated shall be
determined under rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the State Board
ofEqualization.

Section 3.32.070 USE TAX RATE. An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage,
use or other consumption in the City of tangible personal property purchased from any
retailer on and after the operative date of this ordinance for storage, use or other
consumption in said territory at the rate of 1% of the sales price of the property. The
sales price shall include delivery charges when such charges are subject to state sales
or use tax regardless of the place to which delivery is made. The tax imposed hereby
shall be in addition to the tax imposed pursuant to Chapter 3.24 of the Del Mar Municipal
Code.

Section 3.32.080 ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW. Except as
otherwise provided in this ordinance and except insofar as they are inconsistent with the
provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the provisions of
Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are
hereby adopted and made a part of this ordinance as though fully set forth herein.

Section 3.32.090 LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF STATE LAW AND COLLECTION

OF USE TAXES. In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue

and Taxation Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing
agency, the name of this City shall be substituted therefor. However, the substitution shall
not be made when:

1.	The word “State” is used as a part of the title of the State
Controller, State Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Board of Equalization, State
Treasury, or the Constitution of the State of California;

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by
or against this City or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by or against
the State Board of Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the administration
or operation of this Ordinance.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sections
referring to the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the result of the
substitution would be to:

PR-09D0-Q-4

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE Q (CONTINUED)

a. Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain
sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property which would not
otherwise be exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other consumption
remain subject to tax by the State under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code, or;

b. Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use
or other consumption of tangible personal property which would not be subject to tax by the
state under the said provision of that code.

4.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711,
6715, 6737, 6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

B.	The word “City” shall be substituted for the word “State” in the phrase
“retailer engaged in business in this State” in Section 6203 and in the definition of that phrase
in Section 6203.

Section 3.32.100 PERMIT NOT REQUIRED. If a seller's permit has been issued to a
retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional transactor's
permit shall not be required by this ordinance.

Section 3.32.110 EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and
the use tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or by
any city, city and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and
Use Tax Law or the amount of any state-administered transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions
tax the gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum
products, to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the county in
which the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common
carriers of persons or property under the authority of the laws of this State, the United
States, or any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the City which is shipped to a
point outside the City, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by the
retailer or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at
such point. For the purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point outside the City shall be
satisfied.

a.	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject to
registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the
Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code,
and undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of
the Vehicle Code by registration to an out-of-City address and by a declaration under penalty
of perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that such address is, in fact, his or her principal place
of residence; and

b.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of
business out-of-City and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, that the
vehicle will be operated from that address.

PR-09D0-Q-5

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE Q (CONTINUED)

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to
furnish the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the
operative date of this ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of
such property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the
property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section (B),
the sale or lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant
to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has
the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such
right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this ordinance, the
storage, use or other consumption in this City of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a
transactions tax under any state-administered transactions and use tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of
aircraft and used or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the use of such
aircraft as common carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under a
certificate of public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this State, the
United States, or any foreign government. This exemption is in addition to the exemptions
provided in Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of
California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed
price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the
tangible personal property arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such
property for any period of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the property for an
amount fixed by a lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section (C),
storage, use, or other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power
over, tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract
or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the
unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is
exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (C)(7), a retailer engaged in
business in the City shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible
personal property, unless the retailer ships or delivers the property into the City or
participates within the City in making the sale of the property, including, but not limited to,
soliciting or receiving the order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of business of the
retailer in the City or through any representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or
person in the City under the authority of the retailer.

7.	“A retailer engaged in business in the City” shall also include any
retailer of any of the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1
(commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in
compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels
registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That
retailer shall be required to collect use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the
vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the City.

PR-09D0-Q-6

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE Q (CONTINUED)

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit against
that tax any transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district imposing,
or retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code with respect to the sale to the person of the property the storage, use or other
consumption of which is subject to the use tax.

Section 3.32.120 AMENDMENTS. All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this
ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use
taxes and which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part of this ordinance, provided however, that no
such amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this ordinance.

Section 3.32.130 CITIZENS OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE. Prior to the operative date, the City
Council shall (a) adopt a resolution establishing the composition of a committee of no more than
five (5) residents of the City to review and annually report on the revenue and expenditure of the
funds from the tax adopted by this ordinance, (b) define the scope of the committee's
responsibilities, and (c) appoint at least a quorum of the members of the committee. City
employees, consultants, or vendors are expressly precluded from serving as members of the
committee. The committee's reports shall be presented to the Council and made available to the
public.

Section 3.32.140 ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN. No injunction or writ of mandate or
other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit, action or proceeding in any court against
the State or the City, or against any officer of the State or the City, to prevent or enjoin the
collection under this ordinance, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of
any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.

SECTION 2 SEVERABILITY. Ifany provision of this ordinance or the application thereof to any
person or circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the ordinance and the application of such
provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

SECTION 3 EFFECTIVE DATE. This ordinance relates to the levying and collecting of the City
transactions and use taxes and shall take effect immediately.

PR-09D0-Q-7