The Question for Measure P

City of Fairfield	
To renew expiring funding without increasing tax rates, shall the Ordinance be adopted extending the existing 1% sales tax for fifteen years to preserve approximately $16 million in local annual funding for the City of Fairfield that the state cannot take away to support neighborhood police patrols, firefighting and rapid 9-1-1 emergency response, crime prevention programs, fixing potholes and repairing neighborhood streets, parks and recreation, and other general services, with mandatory audits and independent oversight?	YES
	NO

Ballot Measure P asks the voters of the City of Fairfield to adopt an ordinance (the “sales tax
ordinance”) that would extend for fifteen years the City’s existing sales tax rate of 1.0%, which
is part of the total 8.625% sales tax rate imposed in the City. The City’s authority to collect the
existing sales tax rate of 1.0% will expire March 31, 2018. If Measure P is approved, the City’s
authority to collect the existing sales tax rate of 1.0% will continue until March 31, 2033.

The City’s sales tax rate of 1.0% is a general tax. These tax revenues are deposited in the City’s
general fund and may be used for any municipal purpose. It is estimated by the City’s Finance
Director that the City’s sales tax rate of 1.0% raises approximately $16 million per year in
general fund revenues for the City.

The tax is subject to an independent annual financial audit that reviews whether the tax is
collected, managed and expended in accordance with the requirements of the sales tax ordinance.
In addition, the expenditure of the City’s sales tax revenues is subject to review by an
independent Fairfield Taxpayer’s Committee established by the City Council. A full copy of the
text of the sales tax ordinance is printed in these ballot materials.

Article XIIIC of the California Constitution, commonly known as Proposition 218, requires that
the proposed extension of the City’s sales tax rate of 1.0% must be approved by a majority of the
voters voting on the measure. A “yes” vote on Measure P authorizes the City to continue to
collect the existing sales tax rate of 1.0% until March 31, 2033. A “no” vote will result in the tax
expiring on March 31, 2018.

Gregory W. Stepanicich
City Attorney
City of Fairfield

RECEIVED

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE P

Vote YES on P to PROTECT FAIRFIELD WITHOUT RAISING TAXES!

CITY CLEI^/Cfty'of fifeirfi^

YES on P preserves LOCAL funding for LOCAL needs in Fairfield - NO funds can be taken by
Sacramento!

YES on P RENEWS expiring local funding for POLICE. FIRE and RAPID 9-1-1 EMERGENCY
RESPONSE.

In 2012 nearly 70% of Fairfield voters approved local funding to prevent devastating cuts to
police patrols, fire protection, fast emergency response, pothole and street repair, programs for
youth, seniors and more.

Over the past four years these funds have been used to protect vital city services from cuts. An
independent Citizens' Oversight Committee and annual audits have confirmed that funds were
used as promised.

Unless Measure P is approved by local voters, this funding is set to expire and Fairfield will lose
$16 million annually or 20% of Fairfield's general fund budget. This would require deep cuts
including the loss of 30-40 police positions, closing a fire station, reduced street maintenance
and repair and closure of city facilities including youth and recreation centers.

Voting YES on P will renew locally-controlled funding without increasing taxes to:

•	Maintain rapid 9-1-1 police, fire and emergency medical response times

•	Preserve neighborhood police patrols and special enforcement units such as
investigations, drug enforcement, crime prevention, and homeless intervention

•	Keep all five of Fairfield's existing fire stations open

•	Fix potholes and repair streets

•	Reduce homelessness

•	Prevent cuts to afterschool programs for children and senior daycare programs and
support services for older residents with dementia

Measure P requires an INDEPENDENT CITIZENS' OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE and MANDATORY
ANNUAL AUDITS to ensure funds continue to be spent properly. BY LAW. NO MEASURE P
FUNDS CAN BE TAKEN BY THE STATE.

Join Fairfield's business and community leaders, police officers and firefighters in voting
YES on P to PROTECT FAIRFIELD WITHOUT INCREASING TAXES!

RECEIVED

Fool me once, shame on you.

Fool me twice, shame on me.

In 2012 Fairfield put Measure P, a 1 percent sales tax, on the ballot. Among its promises
was to restore police and fire protection to full strength and to take care of our
deteriorating streets. Citizens agreed and passed P. Police and fire services were
restored...and then some.

The City soon replaced much of the police fleet with new SUVs. They added two new
motorcycles. They instituted a project called the Homeless Intervention Team - two
policemen seeking out and talking with homeless people - a task better suited to Social
Services than gun-toting officers.

They re-opened a fire station. Good.

They rebuilt the reserve fund. Good.

But they continued old boondoggles like buying lobbyists in Washington, DC and
Sacramento. They poured millions of dollars into the new train station overpass.

Streets? Before P, the City spent about $2 million each year patching up the worst
potholes. Nearly all of this money was from federal and state gasoline excise
taxes. Public Works estimated that it would take about $13 million annually to do it
right.

Measure P produces about $16 million each year. The City puts a bit more than $2
million of this new revenue into the streets program - a total of $4.2 million, not $13
million. Most goes into into re-sealing streets in the newer neighborhoods, not fixing
our older crumbling streets.

Instead of the new tax money buying time to get the budget under control, it was back
to business as usual. They never intended the tax to expire after 5 years!

They're coming at us again - another P - now for 15 years. Does anyone think the City
will try to reduce spending this time?

Fool me again? NO!

Argument Against Measure P Central Solano Citizen/Taxpayer Group	August 18,2016

"There they go again." President Ronald Reagan was commenting on forecasts of disaster if he
was reelected.

We are seeing the same kind of scare tactic in the City's ballot argument -- cutbacks in police
and fire protection; no more money to fix potholes; losing many community programs.

Don't they understand that public safety and infrastructure are their primary responsibilities!
Everything else has to fit within available resources - without taxing us any more.

Furthermore, every program should be evaluated on a regular basis to ensure that it meets its
objectives and is the best use of our taxes.

Nowhere -- in the text of Measure P or in the past three years of City Council minutes -- do we
see efforts to reduce spending or to examine whether programs are successful.

The first Measure P meant a return to business as usual. The City never intended that the tax
be used to make city government more efficient and less costly, and to do it within five years.

The only way to get their attention is to say NO. No, we will not extend the tax!

That leaves a year for the City Council to convince us that it's serious about using our tax dollars
efficiently, for the most important purposes.

Let's demand that the City do better.

Vote NO on Measure P.

/s/ Janet S. Roberts, President
/s/ Benjamin J. Michels
/s/ John F. Takeuchi
/s/ Vern F. Van Buskirk
/s/ Robert D. Jarvis

Rebuttal to Argument in Favor of Measure P
Central Solano Citizen,/Taxpayer Group
August 29, 2016

REBUTTAL TO THE ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE P

Don't be fooled! The opponents of Measure P are misrepresenting the truth about this
critical measure to protect Fairfield without increasing taxes.

Here are the facts:

FACT: Measure P was approved in 2012 following consecutive years of state takeaways
of local funding for Fairfield. This funding has not been restored by the state. Without
Measure P, Fairfield will lose $16 million annually and have to cut 20% of Fairfield's
budget. This would require the same deep cuts to vital city services that were being
considered when Measure P was originally approved in 2012, including:

-	Eliminating 30-40 police positions

-	Closing a fire station

-	Reduced street maintenance and repair

-	Closure of youth and senior centers

FACT: Each year since Measure P was approved, an independent Citizens' Oversight
Committee comprised of Fairfield residents has reviewed the specific uses of Measure P
funds and confirmed that all funds have been used as promised to preserve essential
services such as police patrols, fire protection, fast emergency response, pothole and
street repair, and programs for youth and seniors. Read the oversight committee
reports and independent annual audits:

www.fairfield.ca.gov/MeasureP

FACT: We cannot count on the State to fund services that keep our community safe.
That's why the locally-controlled funding from Measure P is so important. Sacramento
cannot take away one penny.

FACT: Voting YES on P does NOT INCREASE OUR TAXES. Measure P simply extends
existing funding that is set to expire.

Vote YES on P to PROTECT FAIRFIELD WITHOUT INCREASING TAXES!

www.ProtectFairfield.com

/s/ Harry T. Price
Mayor

/s/ Teresa Courtemanche
President, The Matt Garcia Foundation

/s/ Rev. Dr. Mervin Davis Jr.

Senior Pastor, True Love Baptist Church

/s/ Margaret Manzo

Executive Director, Fairfield Main Street Association
/s/ Lewis Broschard

19-year Fairfield resident and 25-year Fire Service Professional

ORDINANCE NO.

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF FAIRFIELD
EXTENDING THE TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE

BOARD OF EQUALIZATION

Section 1. Article VII of Chapter 18 (“Taxation”) of the Fairfield Municipal Code is
hereby amended and restated to read as follows:

“18.70 TITLE. This ordinance shall be known as the Fairfield Transactions and
Use Tax Ordinance. The City of Fairfield hereinafter shall be called "City." This
ordinance shall be applicable in the incorporated territory of the City.

18.71.	OPERATIVE DATE. "Operative Date" means the first day of the first
calendar quarter commencing more than 110 days after the adoption of this ordinance,
the date of such adoption being as set forth below.

18.72.	PURPOSE. This ordinance is adopted to achieve the following, among
other purposes, and directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to
accomplish those purposes:

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the provisions of
Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code and Section 7285.9 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 which authorizes the City to adopt
this tax ordinance which shall be operative if a majority of the electors voting on the
measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax at an election called for that purpose.

B. To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates
provisions identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California
insofar as those provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and limitations
contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax and
provides a measure therefore that can be administered and collected by the State
Board of Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and
requires the least possible deviation from, the existing statutory and administrative
procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization in administering and collecting
the California State Sales and Use Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be administered
in a manner that will be, to the greatest degree possible, consistent with the provisions
of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of
collecting the transactions and use taxes, and at the same time, minimize the burden of
record keeping upon persons subject to taxation under the provisions of this ordinance.

1

18.73.	CONTRACT WITH STATE. Prior to the operative date, the City shall
contract with the State Board of Equalization to perform all functions incident to the
administration and operation of this transactions and use tax ordinance; provided, that if
the City shall not have contracted with the State Board of Equalization prior to the
operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract and in such a case the operative date
shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter following the execution of such a
contract.

18.74.	TRANSACTIONS TAX RATE. For the privilege of selling tangible
personal property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated
territory of the City at the rate of 1.0% of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale
of all tangible personal property sold at retail in said territory on and after the operative
date of this ordinance.

18.75.	PLACE OF SALE. For the purposes of this ordinance, all retail sales are
consummated at the place of business of the retailer unless the tangible personal
property sold is delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to
a common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts from
such sales shall include delivery charges, when such charges are subject to the state
sales and use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is made. In the event a
retailer has no permanent place of business in the State or has more than one place of
business, the place or places at which the retail sales are consummated shall be
determined under rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the State
Board of Equalization.

18.76.	USE TAX RATE. An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use
or other consumption in the City of tangible personal property purchased from any
retailer on and after the operative date of this ordinance for storage, use or other
consumption in said territory at the rate of 1.0% of the sales price of the property. The
sales price shall include delivery charges when such charges are subject to state sales
or use tax regardless of the place to which delivery is made.

18.77.	ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW. Except as otherwise
provided in this ordinance and except insofar as they are inconsistent with the
provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the
provisions of Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a part of this ordinance as though fully set
forth herein.

18.78.	LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF STATE LAW AND COLLECTION OF
USE TAXES. In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code:

A. Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing
agency, the name of this City shall be substituted therefor. However, the substitution
shall not be made when:

2

1.	The word "State" is used as a part of the title of the State Controller,
State Treasurer, Victim Compensation and Government Claims Board, State Board of
Equalization, State Treasury, or the Constitution of the State of California;

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or
against this City or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by or against
the State Board of Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the
administration or operation of this Ordinance.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sections
referring to the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the result of the
substitution would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales,
storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property which would not
otherwise be exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other consumption
remain subject to tax by the State under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other
consumption of tangible personal property which would not be subject to tax by the
state under the said provision of that code.

4.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711,
6715, 6737, 6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

B. The word "City" shall be substituted for the word "State" in the phrase
"retailer engaged in business in this State" in Section 6203 and in the definition of that
phrase in Section 6203.

18.79.	PERMIT NOT REQUIRED. If a seller's permit has been issued to a
retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional
transactor's permit shall not be required by this ordinance.

18.80.	EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS.

A. There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and
the use tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or
by any city, city and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local
Sales and Use Tax Law or the amount of any state-administered transactions or use
tax.

B. There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions
tax the gross receipts from:

1. Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum
products, to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the county
in which the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as
common carriers of persons or property under the authority of the laws of this State, the
United States, or any foreign government.

3

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the City which is shipped to a
point outside the City, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by the
retailer or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a
consignee at such point. For the purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point outside
the City shall be satisfied:

a.	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles)
subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of
Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the
Public Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5
(commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration to an out-of-City
address and by a declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that
such address is, in fact, his or her principal place of residence; and

b.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place
of business out-of-City and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer,
that the vehicle will be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to
furnish the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the
operative date of this ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of
such property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the
property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, the
sale or lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant
to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease
has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not
such right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this ordinance, the
storage, use or other consumption in this City of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a
transactions tax under any state-administered transactions and use tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of
aircraft and used or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the use of
such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under
a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this
State, the United States, or any foreign government. This exemption is in addition to
the exemptions provided in Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code of the State of California.

4

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price
pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the
tangible personal property arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such
property for any period of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the property for
an amount fixed by a lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section,
storage, use, or other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power
over, tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a
contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has
the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not
such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in
business in the City shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of
tangible personal property, unless the retailer ships or delivers the property into the City
or participates within the City in making the sale of the property, including, but not
limited to, soliciting or receiving the order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of
business of the retailer in the City or through any representative, agent, canvasser,
solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the City under the authority of the retailer.

7.	"A retailer engaged in business in the City" shall also include any
retailer of any of the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1
(commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in
compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels
registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code.
That retailer shall be required to collect use tax from any purchaser who registers or
licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the City.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit against
that tax any transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district
imposing, or retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code with respect to the sale to the person of the property the
storage, use or other consumption of which is subject to the use tax.

18.81.	AMENDMENTS. All amendments subsequent to the effective date of
this ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to
sales and use taxes and which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part

1.7	of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part
of this ordinance, provided however, that no such amendment shall operate so as to
affect the rate of tax imposed by this ordinance.

5

18.82.	ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN. No injunction or writ of
mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit, action or proceeding
in any court against the State or the City, or against any officer of the State or the City,
to prevent or enjoin the collection under this ordinance, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.

18.83.	SEVERABILITY. If any provision of this ordinance or the application
thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the ordinance
and the application of such provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be
affected thereby.

18.84.	INDEPENDENT FINANCIAL AUDIT. By no later than December 31 of
each year, the City’s independent auditors shall complete a Transactions and Use Tax
Ordinance Compliance and Internal Control Audit Report. Such report shall review
whether the tax revenues collected pursuant to this ordinance are collected, managed
and expended in accordance with the requirements of this ordinance.

18.85.	FAIRFIELD TAXPAYERS COMMITTEE. The City Council shall continue
the Fairfield Taxpayers Committee established in 2013 to review the expenditure of
revenues collected pursuant to this ordinance. The Committee shall consist of at least
five members appointed by the City Council. The Committee members shall be
residents and taxpayers in the City. The terms of the Committee members and their
specific duties established by Resolution No. 2013-31 on February 19, 2013 shall
continue in full force and effect; provided, however, that the City Council may amend
Resolution No. 2013-31 by resolution of the City Council.

18.86.	TERMINATION DATE. The authority to levy the tax imposed by this
ordinance shall expire on March 31,2033, at 11:59 p.m.”

Section 2. This ordinance relates to the levying and collecting of the City
transactions and use taxes and shall take effect immediately.

Section 3. The City Clerk shall certify the passage of this ordinance and forward a
copy of the adopted ordinance to the Board of Equalization.

PASSED AND ADOPTED by the People of the City of Fairfield, State of California,
on November 8, 2016.

Mayor

Attest:____________________

(Signature)

6

City Clerk