Ballot question

The following question appeared on the ballot:[i]

u

To maintain and improve city servi ces including city-run

police and fire departments, paramedic/9-1-1 emergency
response, anti-gang/drug/crime programs, school safety,
after-school and seniors programs; ensure fire engines and
emergency vehicles have updated equipment; and repair
streets/potholes; shall the ordinance to increase the sales

tax by one- half of one percent, providing $9,000,000

annually, to expire after 20 years, requiring audits, public

JJ

disclosure of funds, and all funds only for Downey be

adopted? [2]

Impartial analysis

The following impartial analysis of the measure was prepared by
the office of the Downey City Attorney:

& t

Voter approval of this Measure would amend the Downey

Municipal Code to add a transactions and use (sales) tax for a
period of twenty years on the sale and/or use of all non-exempt
tangible personal property sold at retail in the City at the rate of
1/2 cent for every dollar spent (or 1/2 percent). The tax would
automatically terminate after the 20th year. If approved, the tax
would go into effect on or after April 1,2017.

The Measure was placed on the ballot by the Downey City
Council and proposes a general tax, the revenue from which
would be placed in the City’s general fund to be used for city
services such as police and fire services, paramedic and
emergency response services, afterschool and senior programs,
and to repair and maintain city streets. The Measure requires a
majority vote of the electorate casting votes at the election.

The measure requires that a five-member independent citizens’
advisory committee be established to review expenditures of the
revenue generated from the tax, to examine annual audit reports
related to the tax, and to make a written annual report to the City
Council summarizing the committee’s findings and appropriate
recommendations. The committee would meet at least quarterly
and its meetings would be open to the public.

The proposed tax would be administered by the California State
Board of Equalization in the same manner that sales tax is
currently administered so as to reduce the cost of collecting the
tax and to minimize the burden of record-keeping upon retailers.

A “yes” vote is a vote in favor of authorizing the 1/2 cent
transactions and use tax for a

period of twenty years. A “no” vote is a vote against authorizing
the transaction and use	tax.[2]