IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE F
CITY OF ARCATA

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE F

Measure F was placed on the ballot by the Areata City Council to ask whether
the City of Areata should continue its utility users tax (UUT) without change
tor eight years. All revenue generated by the UUT goes into the Cityls general
fund and pays for essential governmental services including, but not limited to,
police, public works, parks, recreation and other City services. The tax generated
roximately $900,000 during fiscal year 2015-2016, which was approximately
% of the City’s net general fund revenue.

The UUT imposes a lax at the rate of three percent (3%) of the usage of the following
utility services used within the City’s boundaries: (1) communication services,
including telephone and video programming services regardless of the method
by which they are provided; (2) electrical energy services; (3) gas services; (4)
water services; and (5) wastewater collection services. Communication services
billed to an address located in Areata are presumed to have been used in Areata
and subject to the tax.

Beginning in 1993, the residents of Areata have paid a Utility Users Tax to make
up for the loss in General Fund revenue from state and federal funding cuts.

Voters in Areata have approved the current Utility Users Tax four times since
its inception. It is set to expire in November 2016. Again, the City Council is
unanimously asking the community to vote YES and continue this tax for another
eight years.

Money generated from this tax is approximately $900,000 per year, representing
about 10% of the City's operating General Fund. When considering why the
funds generated by the Utility Users Tax are important, consider the services it
helps pay for:

•	Safer streets by repairing and maintaining streets, providing street sweeping,

and maintaining street lights;

The tax is computed on the basis of monthly usage and service charges, and
is collected by the service provider. For eacn service user, the combined total
tax would continue to be capped at $1500 per fiscal year, subject to annual
adjustment in accordance with the Consumer Price Index (CPI) beginning July
1, 2010. The adjusted cap for fiscal year 2016-2017 is equal to $1,657.20.
Existing tax exemptions would remain in place. These exemptions include gas
and electric usage by persons who receive Low Income Rate Assistance ('‘LIRA’’);
basic telephone service usage by persons who receive "universal lifeline service;"
and any additional exemptions for specific classes of persons or utilities adopted
by the Areata City Council by ordinance or resolution.

The City first adopted the UUT in 1993, and voters renewed it in 1996,2000,2004
and 2008. In 2012, voters approved the addition of a high electricity usage utility
users tax in the amount of 45% taxed on residential electric customers whose
electricity usage exceeds 600% over the baseline allowance. The high electric
use tax approved in 2012 expires in 2024 and is not affected by Measure F. The
current UUT, exclusive of the high electricity use tax, will expire automatically
on December 1,2016. Voter approval of this Measure would continue the UUT
without change for eight years, terminating automatically on November 30,2024.
This Measure must be approved by a majority of the voters.

A YES vote approves the measure.

A NO vote rejects the measure.

Respectfully submitted,

/s/Nancy Diamond
City Attorney, City of Areata

Enhanced public safety through the support of critical community policing
programs and services including dedicated patrol of the Areata Plaza, Valley
West and the Areata Community Forest and Marsh;

•	Healthier residents and a stronger community through Areata Recreation
Division‘s educational, sports and arts programs for youth and adults;

•	Our neighborhood parks, the Plaza, the Ball Park, the Sporis Complex, the
Community Center, and Redwood Park; and

•	Economic development consistent with our small-town values funding
projects and programs complementary to the efforts of the Areata Chamber
of Commerce and Areata Main Street.

Funding Arcata's critical services and programs makes Areata a safer and more
livable community, and improves the quality of life for all its residents. Please
join us in voting YES on the Utility Users tax to fund eight more years of essential
community services.

By: City Council, City of Areata

/s/ Paul Pitino

/s/Susan Ornelas

/s/Sofia Pereira

/s/ Mark Wheetley

/s/ Michael Winkler

THE ABOVE STATEMENT IS AN IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE
F. IF YOU DESIRE A COPY OF THE FULL UTILITY USERS TAX
RESOLUTION, PLEASE CALL THE CITY CLERK’S OFFICE AT 822-5953
AND A COPY WILL BE PROVIDED TO YOU AT NO COST, OR YOU MAY
VIEW THE RESOLUTION (No. 156-63) AT: www.cityofarcata.org.