Santa Barbara, California, Marijuana
Business Tax, Measure D2016
(November 2016)

Text of measure

Ballot question

The following question appeared on the ballot:^

££ Shall the ordinance entitled the "Santa Barbara Marijuana Control Act"
which taxes marijuana businesses to help fund general city services,
including crime prevention, police services, and zoning enforcement under
state and local marijuana laws, at a rate of 20% of gross receipts for
medical marijuana and non- medical marijuana and generating estimated
revenues of between $1,100,000 and $2,200,000 annually, with no
terminate date, be adopted?^

Impartial analysis

The following impartial analysis of the measure was prepared by the office of the
Santa Barbara City Attorney:

Measure____would enact the Santa Barbara Marijuana Control Act (the “Act”).

The Act would establish a new City tax on medical and non-medical marijuana
businesses at a rate of up to 20% of their gross receipts.

The Act declares that it “is enacted solely to raise revenue for general municipal
purposes, including but not limited to crime prevention, police services and zoning
enforcement, and is not intended for regulation.”

The Act does not legalize or otherwise allow new medical or non-medical
(recreational) marijuana businesses in Santa Barbara.

If the statewide initiative called the “Adult Use of Marijuana Act” is approved by
California voters this November, non-medical (recreational) marijuana use and
sales would generally be legalized in California. The Santa Barbara Marijuana
Control Act allows the City to tax new non-medical marijuana businesses that may
be legalized by the Adult Use of Marijuana Act.

Under existing City law, up to three storefront medical marijuana dispensaries can
be permitted and regulated by the City. These businesses would also be taxed.

The Act authorizes the City Council to reduce the tax rate for any marijuana
businesses or to establish different tax rates for different categories of marijuana
businesses, always subject to the 20% maximum rate. On the other hand, the Act
and state law prohibit the City Council from increasing the tax rate without future
voter approval. The City Council may amend or repeal the Act without future voter
approval.

The Act’s marijuana business tax would apply to the gross receipts from the
planting, cultivation, harvesting, transporting, manufacturing, compounding,
converting, processing, preparing, storing, packaging, wholesale, collective or
cooperative distribution, provision, and/or retail sales of marijuana and any
ancillary products in the City, whether or not carried on for gain or profit, and
whether the business is legal or illegal.

The revenues from the tax imposed by the Santa Barbara Marijuana Control Act
will be subject to the annual audit performed by the City's independent auditor
which is reported in the City's Comprehensive Annual Financial Report.

Measure______was placed on the ballot by the City Council of the City of Santa

Barbara.

A "yes" vote is a vote to approve the Santa Barbara Marijuana Control Act and
impose a new business tax on medical and non-medical marijuana businesses at a
rate of up to 20% of gross receipts.

A "no" vote is a vote not to approve the Santa Barbara Marijuana Control Act and
not to impose a new business tax on medical and non-medical marijuana businesses
at a rate of up to 20% of gross receipts.^

—Santa Barbara City

Attorney http://www.santabarbaraca.gov/civicax/filebank/blobdload.aspx?BloblD^-173921