COUNTY OF SAN DIEGO

(This Measure will appear on the ballot in the following form.)

MEASURE A

SAN DIEGO COUNTY ROAD REPAIR, TRANSIT, TRAFFIC RELIEF, SAFETY AND
WATER QUALITY MEASURE

Shall an ordinance be adopted to: repair roads, deteriorating bridges; relieve
congestion; provide every community funds for pothole/street repairs; expand public
transit, including improved services for seniors, disabled, students, veterans; reduce
polluted runoff; preserve open space to protect water quality/reduce wildfires by
enacting, with independent oversight/audits, a 40-year, half-cent local sales tax ($308
million annually) that Sacramento cannot take away?

This measure requires approval by two-thirds of the voters voting on the measure.

COUNTY COUNSEL IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

The San Diego Association of Governments (SANDAG), acting as the San Diego County
Regional Transportation Commission (Commission), has placed this measure on the ballot. This
measure would:

1.	Authorize the Commission to impose an additional transactions and use tax of Vi
percent in San Diego County for a period not to exceed forty years.

2.	Authorize the Commission to issue bonds payable from the proceeds of the tax to
accelerate the construction of public infrastructure improvements.

3.	Require all revenues to be deposited into a special fund and limit the use of such
revenues to public improvements that qualify as eligible uses under state law, including:

•	Local Infrastructure Projects: transit youth passes, increased transit services, habitat,
roads, sidewalks, beach sand replenishment, greenhouse gas reduction, climate
action plans, and watershed management.

•	Regional Corridors Projects: new and expanded bus, train and Trolley services and
facilities, improved intermodal centers at the airport and border, highway express
lanes, carpool lanes, and carpool connectors, and highways and general purpose lane
connectors.

•	Active Transportation Projects: bikeway facilities and connectivity improvements,
pedestrian and walkable community projects, bicycle and pedestrian safety projects
and programs, pedestrian grade separation projects, and traffic calming projects.

•	Open Space Funding: implementation of the regional share of habitat conservation
plans, including acquiring, managing, and monitoring conservation lands.

PR-CW01-A-1

COUNTY COUNSEL IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS (CONTINUED)

•	Transit Operator Funding: funding for the region’s transit operators for operation of
new, expanded, or enhanced services included in the Ordinance.

•	Grants Program: local rail and road grade separation projects, synchronized traffic
signal projects on local arterial roads, and specialized transportation grants to address
the needs of people who are seniors, students, disabled, low-income, and veterans in
need of transportation services, or implement innovative projects/programs that
provide better access to public transit and support smart growth and transit oriented
development.

4.	Require	the Commission to make every effort to combine revenues with federal, state,

local and private funding to maximize the amount of money available in the region for
infrastructure.

5.	With the exception of certain sections, which require a vote of the electors of San Diego
County to amend, the ordinance may only be amended with a favorable vote of at least two-thirds
of the SANDAG Board of Directors.

6.	Require local agencies to maintain the same level of discretionary funding, including
local agency general funds, expended for streets and roads, transit, and specialized
transportation.

7.	Require that SANDAG use its best efforts to complete the projects in the Priority
Corridors Program within 15 years. These include highway improvements in the SR 78, 1-5, SR
52, SR 67, 1-8, and SR/94/SR125 corridors; increased Trolley service and capacity; COASTER
commuter rail improvements; and new Trolley and Rapid bus services.

8.	Establish a goal of using 80% to 100% local workers on capital projects funded by the
ordinance.

9.	Require that skilled and trained workers be used and responsible bidders be hired to
carry out capital projects constructed by SANDAG.

10.	Require continuation and expansion of the Independent Taxpayer Oversight Committee
(ITOC), which will oversee the financial integrity and performance of the program.

If passed, the measure shall become effective on November 9, 2016, and operative on April 1,
2017.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure A. A copy of the
measure is also available for viewing at the Registrar of Voters website at
www.sdvote.com/en/measure-a.pdf If you desire a copy of the measure,
please call the Registrar of Voter’s office at 858-505-7260 and a copy will be
mailed at no cost to you. (NOTE: Web address is in a|l lower case letters.)

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE A

San Diego County Road Repair, Transit, Traffic Relief & Water Quality Measure

Reverse decades of neglect to San Diego’s infrastructure by providing funding for:

•	Making urgent, critical repairs to roads, bridges & overpasses.

•	Synchronizing traffic lights/upgrading freeways to relieve congestion.

•	Expanding transit for seniors, students, disabled and veterans.

•	Preserving open space to protect habitat/watersheds.

•	Improving brush management to reduce wildfires.

•	Improving water Quality by treating polluted runoff.

•	Funding pothole/street repairs for every community.

Local Nurses, Fire Fighters & First Responders: Critical Safety Repairs Save Lives.

Badly needed repairs to streets, bridges, interchanges/overpasses make roads safer, reduce
response times, and get emergency crews to accidents/disasters faster to save lives.

Paramedics. 911 operators, police and sheriff’s deputies support Measure A.

Prevent Devastating Wildfires/Protect Water Quality.

Preserve 25,000-plus acres of open space. Protect endangered habitat/watershed. Clean polluted
runoff.

Fire chiefs: active brush removal/open space management helps prevent wildfires.

Strict Accountability/Transparency.

Every project online, detailing exactly what Measure A does in your community.

Annual independent audits posted online.

All funds, by law, must be spent locally - funding Sacramento CANNOT take away.

A Citizens Oversight Committee will ensure every dollar is spent as promised.

Relieve Traffic Congestion/Reduce Air Pollution.

San Diego drivers average 42 hours/year stuck in traffic. Idling cars and trucks worsen air
pollution. Measure A synchronizes traffic lights, upgrades congested freeways and expands
transit to reduce pollution/relieve traffic congestion.

A Sustainable, Viable Future.

Investing in infrastructure creates tens of thousands of good-paying jobs. Repairing/upgrading
roads and freeways insures our economic vitality. Preserving open space, protecting water
quality, and expanding transit protects our environment.

Measure A will protect and enhance San Diego’s Quality of Life for our children and their

children.

YES on Measure A
Repair San Diego with Funding Sacramento CANNOT Take Away.

www.repairsandiego.com

HANEY HONG
President & CEO,

San Diego County Taxpayers Association

JACK HARKINS

Chair, United Veterans Council

of San Diego

CARA A. LACEY
The Nature Conservancy

MARY ENYEART

San Diego 911 Emergency Dispatcher

ALLAN ARROLLADO
President,

San Diego Fire Fighters

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE A

No Real Accountability Over the Bureaucrats

Despite a voter-friendly name, the deceptively-titled ‘Independent Oversight Committee’ is nothing
more than an insiders’ club. The media has exposed the committee’s chairman as a registered
lobbyist for the construction industry which is making millions on these projects. He lobbies the
very government officials he is supposed to oversee! Worse yet, in 2010 SANDAG reduced the
conflict of interest rules governing this so-called committee.

A Tax that Hurts Working Families

Many working families are struggling in this high-tax state. This $18 Billon tax will be paid by our
children and grandchildren and last for 40 years! Twelve years ago voters passed a 40-year sales
tax increase for SANDAG’s transportation improvements but commutes have not gotten any
better. With billions and billions of dollars in proposed tax increases on this year’s ballot already,
send a message and vote NO on Measure A!

A Transportation Tax that Doesn’t Pay for Transportation

Read the fine print. Bureaucrats expanded the definition of “Local Infrastructure Projects” ($4.3
Billion) to include: incentives for infill developers, bike paths, sidewalks, streetlights, beach sand
replenishment, greenhouse gas reduction, monitoring open space and other non-transportation
pet projects. There is $2.54 Billion for bike lanes and open space but only $0.6 Billion for normal
highway lane expansions.

No Traffic Congestion Relief

Measure A documents literally state “travel times to work remain flat for drivers alone and improve
for transit uses.” So while over % of commuters travel alone, only 3.4% of this tax is going to help
them. Additionally, over $7.5 Billion is earmarked for mass transit despite the fact only 2.7% of
commuters use it - and the percentage of transit riders has decreased since 2005.

Bi-partisan Opposition

Both the Republican Party and the Democrat party oppose Measure A.
www.NoWavOnA.org

KRISTINE C. ALESSIO
La Mesa City Council
SANDAG Board Member

BILL WELLS
Mayor El Cajon
SANDAG Board Member

AMANDA YOUNG RIGBY
Deputy Mayor, City of Vista

JOHN MCCANN

Chula Vista City Councilmember

STEVE VAUS
Mayor, City of Poway
SANDAG Board Member

PR-CW01-A-4

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE A

Measure A is a deceptive and harmful 40-year sales tax increase that would raise taxes in
San Diego County with little accountability or transparency and no clear plan to improve our
quality of life.

Reject Measure A. Vote NO on a 40-year tax increase that gambles with the health of our
children and grandchildren. The American Lung Association gave San Diego County an “F” in the
2016 State of the Air report. Measure A does not offer real solutions to solve our dangerous air
pollution problems.

Reject Measure A. Vote NO on bureaucrats getting a blank check
with little accountability or transparency.

Reject Measure A. Vote NO on a 40-year tax increase with no guaranteed solutions to address
climate change or reduce traffic congestion in our region.

Reject Measure A. Vote NO on a flawed Measure that raises taxes for 40 years, yet does not do
nearly enough to improve water quality and clean up the pollution harming our creeks and coastal
waters.

Reject Measure A. Vote NO on Measure A with nurses, teachers, the Sierra Club, the National
City Chamber of Commerce and working families.

Reject Measure A. Our communities deserve better, our children deserve better, our taxpayers
deserve better.

Measure A is dangerous, reckless, and does more harm than good.

Don’t be fooled.

VOTE NO ON MEASURE A.

Oppose Measure A. Get the facts about this deceptive measure at StopMeasureA.org.

RUBEN ARIZMENDI, Chair
Sierra Club, San Diego Chapter

DIANE TAKVORIAN, Executive Director
Environmental Health Coalition

JIM MAHLER, College Professor/President
American Federation of Teachers

Ms. PAT ZAHAROPOULOS, Esq., President/CEO
Middle Class Taxpayers Association

DAVID ALVAREZ, Councilmember
City of San Diego, District 8

PR-CW01-A-5

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE A

The opponents just don’t get it.

Measure A repairs roads/relieves congestion while improving water quality

REPAIR ROADS, BRIDGES & OVERPASSES. FILL POTHOLES IN
EVERY COMMUNITY.

Deteriorating roads cost San Diegans $1858/year.

Wear/tear $722. Lost time/wasted fuel $887. Accidents/insurance $247. (CBS)

•	FATAL ACCIDENTS: Poor roads responsible for 1/3 of traffic fatalities. (KNSD7/39)

•	UNSAFE ROADS: 67% local roads rated poor/mediocre. (KPBS)

Local Nurses. Paramedics/Emeraencv Room Doctors: Measure A gets first responders to
accidents/natural disasters quicker to save lives.

IMPROVE WATER QUALITY
Measure A will clean up millions of gallons of toxic roadway runoff.

In 2015, polluted runoff was a major cause in 762 Beach Advisories. (U-T San Diego)

Measure A preserves 25,000 acres of open space/wetlands, protecting rivers/streams.

Former County Water Authority Chair Mike Madigan: “Measure A is needed to protect San
Diego’s water quality.”

REDUCE TRAFFIC CONGESTION & AUTO EMISSIONS
Measure A spends millions to relieve traffic congestion, reduce idling, synchronize traffic
signals, and build bus/trolley lines to move people out of cars.

JOBS-JOBS-JOBS

TENS OF THOUSANDS OF JOBS: $40+ billion annual San Diego imports/exports. Infrastructure
investments guarantee these jobs remain here.

PREVENT WILDFIRES

Fire Chiefs/ Fire Fighters: Measure A funds aggressive brush management to prevent wildfires
and repairs back country roads to improve emergency access/evacuation.

ACCOUNTABILITY/TRANSPARENCY

•	Independent Annual Audits.

•	Citizens Oversight Committee.

•	Funding Sacramento Cannot Take Away!

San Diego County Taxpayers Association: Strict accountability/oversight are built in.

YES on Measure A
Repair San Diego with Funding Sacramento CANNOT Take Away.

www.repairsandiego.com

JOE HUNT	AUGUST	“AUGIE”	GHIO

San Diego Paramedic	San	Diego	Fire	Chief	(retired)

JAMES STONE
The San Diego
Environment Coalition

JACKIE CONSIDINE
Registered Nurse (RN)

ROBERT “SKIP” CARTER
Commander, San Diego Sector
California Highway Patrol (retired)