Voter Information Guide

and
Sample Ballot

Presidential General Election
Tuesday, November 8,2016

Elections Office of the Registrar of Voters
777 E. Rialto Avenue, San Bernardino, CA 92415
www.SBCountyElections.com

Gula de informacion el votante
en espanol en el interior

Shall an ordinance be adopted authorizing the
Town of Apple Valley to finance the acquisition
of the Liberty Utilities water system and to
acquire, improve, or finance other projects, by
issuing public debt in excess of $5,000,000, if
the Town obtains voter approval or the Town
Council holds a public hearing, certifies that the
revenues from the project will cover debt
payments, prohibits the use of taxpayer
revenues to repay the debt, and conducts an
annual independent audit?

YES ^ ^
NO ^ ^

City of Victorville Measure
Measure X

REMOVE RESTRICTIONS ON METHOD OF
ELECTING VICTORVILLE CITY COUNCIL
MEMBERS. Shall Article III of the Victorville
City Charter, Method of Election, be amended
to: (1) delete Charter Section 300’s requirement
that the City elect its council members "at
large"; and (2) remove Charter Section 301 ’s
prohibition on electing council members either
"by" districts or "from" districts?

	YES ^ ^
	NO ^ ^
Town of Yucca Valley Measures	
Measure Y	

To provide funding, that cannot be taken by the
State, to maintain Yucca Valley services and
help make neighborhoods safer, including:
violent crime/burglary/home invasion
prevention; youth crime prevention; anti-gang/
anti-drug programs; adding police officers/
neighborhood patrols; fixing potholes/
maintaining Town streets; senior/youth
programs; and other general Town services;
shall Yucca Valley enact a 0.5% sales tax, for
10 years, providing approximately $1,500,000
annually, with annual audits, citizens’ oversight,
and all funds spent in Yucca Valley?

YES ^ ^
NO 4" H

To reduce the cost to taxpayers for funding the
sewer system up-to 30% per year; ensure a
safe, clean, reliable water supply; and, improve
water conservation; shall Yucca Valley enact a
0.5% sales tax, for 10 years, providing
approximately $1,500,000 annually, that cannot
be taken by the State, with annual audits,
citizens’ oversight, and all funds required by
law to be spent locally to equitably reduce the
costs of the sewer system for all residents?

YES ^ ^
NO ^ ^

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE Y

This Impartial Analysis of Measure Y has been prepared by the Town
Attorney pursuant to Section 9280 of the California Elections Code.

The Town Council has prepared and is submitting Measure Y to the voters of the Town
of Yucca Valley to add a new Chapter 3.26 to the Town's Municipal Code, titled
"Temporary Transactions and Use Tax." If approved at the November 8, 2016 election,
Measure Y will impose a /4 cent per dollar (0.5%) transaction and use tax for general
fund purposes lasting for 10 years. Specifically, Measure Y places a tax of 0.5% upon
Town retailers' gross receipts from the retail sale of most tangible personal property sold
within the Town for 10 years, and an excise tax upon the storage, use or other
consumption of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer for storage, use
or other consumption within the Town at a rate of 0.5% for 10 years.

It is estimated that revenues from this tax will be on the order of $1,500,000 annually.
Funds generated by the proposed tax are not restricted and may be used for any Town
general fund purposes; but the Town Council has declared certain priorities for use of
the tax proceeds, including the following:

1)	Maintaining neighborhood safety, police patrols and 911 response,

2)	Maintaining and repairing existing neighborhood streets and alleys,

3)	Maintaining the Town's quality of life basic programs.

Measure Y includes provisions for the establishment of an independent taxpayers'
oversight committee, mandatory financial audits and yearly reports to the community.

As a sales tax, Measure Y will apply to everyone who purchases retail goods within
Town limits. Visitors and tourists who visit Yucca Valley will also bear part of the tax
burden imposed by their local activities and thus contribute to the Town's ability to
maintain roads, sidewalks, parks, police and other general public services that they use
while visiting.

The tax would be administered by the California Board of Equalization under contract
with the Town of Yucca Valley.

A "YES" vote is a vote to approve a 0.5% retail transactions and use general tax. A
"NO" vote is a vote against a 0.5% retail transactions and use general tax. The
transactions and use tax in Measure Y would take effect only if it receives a majority
"YES" vote at the November 8, 2016 general municipal election. The tax, if approved
by the voters, will not be imposed before March 1,2017.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure Y prepared by the Town
Attorney. If you desire a copy of the ordinance or measure, please call the
elections official (Town Clerk) at (760) 369-7207, x 226, and a copy will be mailed
at no cost to you.

Dated: August 17, 2016

s/ Lona N. Laymon
Yucca Valley Town Attorney

PR-9025-IA-1

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE Y

This Argument in Favor of Measure Y was submitted pursuant to Section
9282 of the California Elections Code. It is the opinion of the author (s), and
has been printed exactly as submitted.

Vote YES on Y to improve safety and repair our streets. More and more gang
members are coming into Yucca Valley from other communities to commit crimes. More
and more parolees and sex offenders are being released early from state prisons. And
Yucca Valley's streets continue to deteriorate.

Yes on Y repairs Yucca Valley's deteriorating streets now, before they deteriorate
further and become more costly to fix in the future.

STATE TAKEAWAYS of local funds and unfunded STATE MANDATES—like requiring
Yucca Valley to track more parolees without any additional funding—have impacted our
community's safety, economy, and property values - vote YES on Y.

YES on Y gives Yucca Valley local control over local funds, for our local public safety
needs.

•	YES on Y puts more police officers on the streets

•	YES on Y ensures rapid response times for fires and emergencies

•	YES on Y repairs our streets and potholes

•	YES on Y funds anti-drug and gang teams

•	YES on Y improves tracking of parolees and sex offenders

•	YES on Y supports fire protection services

Measure Z, also on your ballot, is a separate measure specifically dedicated to saving
taxpayers money on the sewer assessments, while maintaining a safe, clean reliable
water supply for Yucca Valley - vote YES on both Y and Z!

YES on Y and Z includes TOUGH ACCOUNTABILITY and TAXPAYER
SAFEGUARDS including independent annual audits and a citizen's oversight committee
to monitor funds. YES on Y and Z funds stay local and cannot be taken by the state.

For factual information about Measures Y and Z visit, www.yucca-vallev.org

Join community leaders, business owners, and the Citizens for Lower Sewer Costs
Committee in voting YES on Y and Z.

s/ Lori Herbel, Chair "Citizens for Lower Sewer Cost Committee"

s/ Robert (Bob) Leone, Mayor of Yucca Valley

s/ Sabrina Peukert, Realtor

s/ Sarann Graham, Resident

s/ Bob Stadum, Resident and small business owner

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE Y

No Argument Against Measure Y was filed.