Ventura County, California, Sales
Tax Increase, Measure AA
(November 2016)

Ballot question

The following question appeared on the ballot:m

// To help preserve Ventura County’s quality of life by: fixing potholes, repaving
streets, repairing bridges; improving traffic flow and safety on 101 and 118;
keeping senior, veteran, disabled, and student bus fares affordable;
increasing bicycle and pedestrian safety; protecting waterways and beaches
from polluted runoff and restoring watersheds; shall Ventura County’s sales
tax be increased by one-half cent for thirty years, raising $70 million annually,
with independent oversight and audits, and with all funds benefiting local
residents?13

Impartial Analysis by County Counsel*

The Ventura County Transportation Commission (“Commission”) is a public agency comprised of elected officials representing the cities
and the County, plus two public members. Measure “AA” is an ordinance of the Commission (acting as the Ventura County Local Transportation
Authority under state law) placed on the ballot by the Ventura County Board of Supervisors at the request of the Commission. The ordinance,
described below, is being submitted to the voters for approval and will become effective and operative only if a two-thirds majority of the voters
who cast ballots vote “yes” on the measure.

The ordinance would impose a retail sales and use tax of one-half cent throughout Ventura County, which would remain in effect for 30
years. The tax would be in addition to any existing or future state sales tax. Revenues of the tax imposed by this ordinance would be: dedicated
solely to transportation purposes in Ventura County; placed in a separate account; and used exclusively to fund transportation projects and
programs set forth in the Ventura County Transportation Investment/Expenditure Plan (“Plan”). The Plan includes projects and programs such as
repairing local streets, improving regional roads, improving traffic flow and safety on Highways 101 and 118, keeping senior, veteran, disabled and
student bus and rail fares affordable, increasing pedestrian and bicycle safety, protecting waterways and beaches, and enhancing safe and
reliable commuter/passenger rail service. The ordinance would allow the Commission to amend the Plan pursuant to law and as provided in the
Plan, including to account for additional funds, unexpected revenues and unforeseen circumstances.

The ordinance would require that all revenues of the tax, less required State Board of Equalization costs and administrative costs (which
the ordinance would cap at 1 percent of total revenues), be expended solely in accordance with the Plan. The revenues provided by the ordinance
are intended to supplement, not replace, existing funding for transportation improvements and services. Accordingly, the ordinance would require
the Commission to annually publish a public report on how revenues of the tax have been spent and progress on implementing the Plan. Funds
and expenditures will annually be subject to an audit and a review by a taxpayer oversight committee.

“Pay as you go” is the preferred method of financing transportation projects and programs under the Plan. However, the ordinance
would also authorize the Commission to use bond financing under certain circumstances. The maximum bonded indebtedness outstanding at any
one time cannot exceed the estimated proceeds of the tax. The ordinance also establishes an appropriations limit of $495 million for fiscal year
2017-2018, adjusted thereafter pursuant to law. All expenditures of the tax revenues are subject to the appropriations limit.

If the measure is approved, it will become operative upon the initiation of revenue collection, which the Commission anticipates will be
April 1,2017.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure “AA.” If you want a copy of the measure, please call the election
official’s office at (805) 654-2664 and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you. The voter information handbook includes the entire Plan.

* Section 9160 of the California Elections Code requires the County Counsel to prepare an Impartial Analysis for each county measure appearing on the ballot.

Argument in Favor of Measure AA

Measure AA will make critical investments in Ventura County's future. Our transportation system is under serious strain. There is too much traffic
congestion on our highways, too many potholes in our streets, and transit services are struggling to maintain service. The longer we wait to make
necessary improvements, the worse these problems will become and the more expensive it will be to fix them.

Measure AA includes strict accountability provisions and independent annual audits. It establishes a Citizens’ Oversight Committee and a Ventura
County Transportation Trust Fund to ensure all funds are used for local transportation priorities and cannot be taken by Sacramento or
Washington, DC.

Measure AA will improve the 101 freeway, which cannot handle the number of cars on the road during peak rush hour traffic. Measure AA will
ensure that traffic flow and safety are improved at all times, bottlenecks are reduced, potholes are quickly repaired, and on- and off-ramps are
upgraded.

Measure AA will improve vanpools and public transit that our growing population of seniors, veterans, and people with disabilities rely on to remain
independent.

Measure AA will ensure funding to protect Ventura County’s waterways and beaches from the harmful pollution caused by street runoff.

N VE 092-031

Argument in Favor of Measure AA (continued)

Measure AA will help strengthen our economy, help local businesses, and create good jobs. Economists estimate that the freeway, local streets
and public transit projects alone will create thousands of local jobs directly and indirectly and generate hundreds of millions of dollars in revenues
for our small, medium and large businesses.

Please join us, along with many elected officials, public safety leaders, educators and the Southern California Automobile Club in supporting
Measure AA.

s/Julia Brownley	s/Geoff Dean	s/Jeff Gorell

Congresswoman	Ventura County Sheriff	Former Assemblymember

Rebuttal to Argument in Favor of Measure AA

Measure AA is a $3.3 Billion TAX INCREASE. In the argument in favor they never mention this is a tax. This tax takes $3.3 billion from you and
gives it to government to spend. The oversight will be provided by people appointed by the very same unelected agency wanting the $3.3 billion
tax.

In 1999 and again in 2004 Ventura County voters rejected this tax realizing that ridership is declining and billions are wasted on their new
government program. Experts investigation of Los Angeles and Orange Counties mass transportation confirmed that ridership had declined 10%
and 30% respectively and that $10 Billion dollars had been wasted on mass transit taxes. Ventura County needs current and objective studies to
coordinate on demand ride-sharing, specialized transportation for senior citizens and getting cars off the roads rather than a new $3.3 Billion tax.

They want to tax seniors, veterans and disabled to make this happen. Measure AA provides $191 million for more empty riderless buses to clog
streets and freeways, $191 million for more trains, and $99 million for more bike lanes. Except for proponents, no one believes we have a train
crisis in the County.

Measure AA is about an out of control unelected agency. Just say NO to the $3.3 Billion tax on you, your family and business. This weakens the
private economy by TAKING MONEY FROM YOU AND GIVING IT TO BIG GOVERNMENT.

This is a TAX! And TEMPORARY is hardly 30 years.

s/Peter Foy	s/Elton Gallegly	s/Rob McCoy	s/Kelly Long

Ventura County Supervisor	U.S. Representative	Thousand Oaks City Councilman	Pleasant Valley School District

1986-2013	Board T rustee

Argument Against Measure AA

When government says it wants to impose a “TEMPORARY 30 YEAR” tax, that usually means it’s time for taxpayers to hold on to their wallets -
and not let go.

This year, the Ventura County Transportation Commission is sponsoring a $3 billion tax increase, made up of a thirty-year increase in the sales tax
that it says will fund “transportation.”

Ventura County certainly has transportation needs, and investment in infrastructure is important. But this sounds a lot more like the terribly flawed
high speed rail project California voters were sold just a few years ago.

Back then, we were given vague promises and optimistic forecasts about the project coming in on time and under budget. But that wasn’t true.

And the high speed rail boondoggle just keeps getting worse.

The VCTC proposal wants to spend $191 million on trains and another $191 million on more empty buses. The VCTC plan also calls for $99
million in new bike lanes and pedestrian trails.

It is also estimated that most cities in Ventura County will receive only 50 percent of the funds generated by the tax increase. Is that fair?

N VE 092-032

Argument Against Measure AA (continued)

Our concern is that the Ventura County Transportation Commission plan is full of generalities and short on specifics.

We need to demand accountability in government and responsibility from our representatives - not more taxes and larger government. This is one
tax increase too many and for too long. WE SHOULD JUST SAY NO!

s/Peter Foy	s/Elton Gallegly	s/Rob McCoy	s/Kelly Long

Ventura County Supervisor	U.S. Representative	Thousand Oaks City Councilman	Pleasant Valley	School District

1986-2013	Board Trustee

Rebuttal to Argument Against Measure AA

Funds from Measure AA are controlled by you— it has very strict accountability provisions including a Citizens’ Oversight Committee, annual
audits, and all revenues will go into a Ventura County Transportation Trust Fund.

Congestion on the 101 and 118 freeways is bad and it's going to get much worse in the coming years if we don’t act now—Measure AA will
improve traffic flow and safety on our freeways.

Our streets and roadways are crumbling and the number of potholes will continue to increase because of deferred maintenance in every city in
Ventura County—50% of the funds from Measure AA will go directly to road repairs and maintenance in your community.

Our senior, veteran and disabled population continues to grow—Measure AA will help maintain the quality of life they deserve by keeping our
transit services reliable and affordable.

Street runoff is polluting our beaches and waterways—Measure AA funds will protect our pristine coastlines and water supplies from the harmful
impact of street runoff.

Ventura County's economy cannot thrive without investing in our future—Measure AA will reduce worker commute times, create thousands of
good paying local jobs, and allow our small, medium and large businesses to operate more efficiently.

Please join us in supporting Measure AA.

s/Hank Lacayo	s/Harold Edwards	s/Elaine Freeman

U.S. Air Force Veteran	President and CEO	Simi Valley Local Businesswoman

President, California Congress of Seniors Limoneira Corp.

Full Text of Measure AA

AN ORDINANCE OF THE VENTURA COUNTY TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION ACTING IN ITS CAPACITY AS THE VENTURA COUNTY

LOCAL TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY
IMPOSING A ONE-HALF OF ONE PERCENT TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX
TO BE ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION

THE VENTURA COUNTY TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION, ACTING IN ITS CAPACITY AS THE VENTURA COUNTY LOCAL
TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY, does hereby ordain as follows:

Section 1. PREAMBLE.

A.	Ventura County's transportation system is used by everyone. Our population is mobile and while Ventura County’s population
grows slower than the rest of southern California, residents are living longer and our young families are growing, and communities are more
connected than ever before for jobs, schools, shopping and entertainment. Unfortunately this means more traffic. Hours wasted in traffic stifle
productivity and rob us of time spent with our families and friends. Our transportation infrastructure is deteriorating. Dramatic reductions in federal
and state funding have left cities struggling to maintain local streets and roads and the Ventura County Transportation Commission unable to fund

N VE 092-033

Measure AA - County of Ventura

Full Text of Measure AA (continued)

major freeway corridor improvements to the 101 and 118. Our population is aging. Without greater investment our seniors face a future of limited
transportation options to access basic services. The Ventura County Transportation Commission has developed a comprehensive and accountable
plan to address our long-term transportation needs while preserving Ventura County’s quality of life. The Plan would:

1.	PRESERVE VENTURA COUNTY’S GUALITY OF LIFE: make transportation improvements that preserve the
character and mobility of local communities and that keep Ventura County moving.

2.	REPAIR LOCAL STREETS: fix potholes, repave roads and repair bridges; provide funding to local cities to maintain
and improve neighborhood streets and sidewalks.

3.	IMPROVE FREEWAY SAFETY AND TRAFFIC FLOW: improve traffic flow and safety on 101 and 118; ensure people
and freight move safely and efficiently on regional roads.

4.	KEEP RAIL AND TRANSIT AVAILABLE AND AFFORDABLE: keep senior, veteran, disabled, student fares affordable;
maintain a sustainable bus and rail system.

5.	IMPROVE SAFETY: increase bicycle and pedestrian safety; earthquake retrofit bridges and overpasses; make
merging onto freeways safer and easier and improve safety at intersections and rail crossings.

6.	PROTECT WATER WAYS AND BEACHES: protect water ways and beaches from polluted runoff and restore
watersheds.

B.	Pursuant to California Public Utilities Code Section 180050, the Ventura County Transportation Commission has been
designated as the Ventura County Local Transportation Authority (hereinafter called the "Authority”) by the Ventura County Board of Supervisors.

C.	Pursuant to California Public Utilities Code Section 180206, a countywide transportation expenditure plan, referred to as the
Ventura County Transportation Investment/Expenditure Plan (hereinafter called the “Plan”), dated July 8, 2016, has been adopted and will be
administered and implemented by the Authority.

D.	The Plan provides for needed countywide transportation facility, service and related improvements funded, in whole or in part,
by a transactions and use tax of one-half of one percent for a period of thirty (30) years. The Plan is incorporated herein by this reference as though
fully set forth herein, and as that Plan may be amended from time to time pursuant to applicable law and as provided for in the Plan and this
ordinance.

Section 2. TITLE. This ordinance shall be known as the Ventura County Transportation Commission Transactions and Use Tax
Ordinance, and may also be referenced herein as the “ordinance.” This ordinance shall be applicable in the incorporated and unincorporated territory
of the County of Ventura, which shall be referred to herein as “District.”

Section 3. OPERATIVE DATE. “Operative Date” means the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing more than 110 days after
the adoption of this ordinance, the date of such adoption being as set forth below.

Section 4. PURPOSE. This ordinance is adopted to permit implementation of the Plan and achieve the following, among other purposes.
It directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish those purposes:

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code and Section 180000 et seq. of the Public Utilities Code which authorizes the Authority to adopt this
tax ordinance which shall be operative if the legally required number of electors voting on the measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax at
an election called for that purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates provisions identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax
Law of the State of California insofar as those provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of Division
2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

N VE 092-034

Full Text of Measure AA (continued)

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax and provides a measure therefor that can be
administered and collected by the State Board of Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and requires the least possible
deviation from, the existing statutory and administrative procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization in administering and collecting the
California State Sales and Use Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be administered in a manner that will be, to the greatest degree
possible, consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting the transactions
and use taxes, and at the same time, minimize the burden of record keeping upon persons subject to taxation under the provisions of this ordinance.

Section 5. CONTRACT WITH STATE. Prior to the operative date, the Authority shall contract with the State Board of Equalization to
perform all functions incident to the administration and operation of this transactions and use tax ordinance; provided, that if the Authority shall not
have contracted with the State Board of Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract and in such a case the operative
date shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter following the execution of such a contract.

Section 6. TRANSACTIONS TAX RATE. For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon
all retailers in the incorporated and unincorporated territory of the District at the rate of one-half of one percent of the gross receipts of any retailer
from the sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail in said territory on and after the operative date of this ordinance.

Section 7. PLACE OF SALE. For the purposes of this ordinance, all retail sales are consummated at the place of business of the retailer
unless the tangible personal property sold is delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for delivery
to an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery charges, when such charges are subject to the state sales
and use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the State or has more
than one place of business, the place or places at which the retail sales are consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations to be
prescribed and adopted by the State Board of Equalization.

Section 8. USE TAX RATE. An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other consumption in the District of tangible personal
property purchased from any retailer on and after the operative date of this ordinance for storage, use or other consumption in said territory at the
rate of one-half of one percent of the sales price of the property. The sales price shall include delivery charges when such charges are subject to
state sales or use tax regardless of the place to which delivery is made.

Section 9. ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW. Except as otherwise provided in this ordinance and except insofar as they
are inconsistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing with
Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a part of this ordinance as though fully set forth herein.

Section 10. LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF STATE LAW AND COLLECTION OF USE TAXES. In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the name of this Authority shall be substituted
therefor. However, the substitution shall not be made when:

1.	The word “State” is used as a part of the title of the State Controller, State Treasurer, Victim Compensation & Government
Control Board, State Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or the Constitution of the State of California.

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against this Authority or any agency, officer, or
employee thereof rather than by or against the State Board of Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the administration or operation of
this ordinance.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sections referring to the exterior boundaries of the State of
California, where the result of the substitution would be to:

a. Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal
property which would not otherwise be exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other consumption remain subject to tax by the State
under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

N VE 092-035

Full Text of Measure AA (continued)

b. Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property, which
would not be subject to tax by the state under the said provision of that code.

4.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711, 6715, 6737, 6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and

Taxation Code.

B.	The word “District” shall be substituted for the word “State” in the phrase “retailer engaged in business in this State” in Section
6203 and in the definition of that phrase in Section 6203.

Section 11. PERMIT NOT REQUIRED. If a seller’s permit has been issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, an additional transactor’s permit shall not be required by this ordinance.

Section 12. EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the use tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax
imposed by the State of California or by any city, city and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or
the amount of any state-administered transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax the gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum products, to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed
principally outside the County in which the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or
property under the authority of the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the District which is shipped to a point outside the District, pursuant to the contract
of sale, by delivery to such point by the retailer or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at such point. For
the purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point outside the District shall be satisfied:

a.	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1
(commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code,
and undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration to an out-of-District
address and by a declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that such address is, in fact, his or her principal place of residence;
and

b.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of business out-of-District and declaration under
penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, that the vehicle will be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to furnish the property for a fixed price pursuant to a
contract entered into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such property, for any period of time for which the
lessor is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, the sale or lease of tangible personal property shall be
deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional
right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this ordinance, the storage, use or other consumption in this District of
tangible personal property:

1. The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a transactions tax under any state-administered
transactions and use tax ordinance.

N VE 092-036

Full Text of Measure AA (continued)

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of aircraft and used or consumed by such operators directly
and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under a certificate of public convenience
and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign government. This exemption is in addition to the exemptions
provided in Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the
operative date of this ordinance.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the tangible personal property arises under a lease, which
is a continuing purchase of such property for any period of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by a lease
prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, storage, use, or other consumption, or possession of, or
exercise of any right or power over, tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of
time for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right
is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in business in the District shall not be required to collect use
tax from the purchaser of tangible personal property, unless the retailer ships or delivers the property into the District or participates within the District
in making the sale of the property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving the order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of business of
the retailer in the District or through any representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the District under the authority of the
retailer.

7.	“A retailer engaged in business in the District” shall also include any retailer of any of the following: vehicles subject to
registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section
21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code.
That retailer shall be required to collect use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the
District.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit against that tax any transactions tax or reimbursement for
transactions tax paid to a district imposing, or retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code with respect to the sale to the person of the property the storage, use or other consumption of which is subject to the use tax.

Section 13. AMENDMENTS. All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part of
this ordinance, provided however, that no such amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this ordinance.

Section 14. USE OF PROCEEDS. The proceeds of the transactions and use tax imposed by this Ordinance shall be used solely for the
projects, programs and purposes set forth in the Ventura County Transportation Investment/Expenditure Plan, as it may be amended from time to
time, and for the administration thereof.

Section 15. MAINTENANCE OF EFFORT. It is the intent of the Legislature and the Authority that proceeds from the transactions and use
tax be used to supplement, not replace, existing funds being used for transportation improvements and services. Maintenance of Effort standards
are established in the Plan. Under no circumstances shall proceeds from the transactions and use tax be used to substitute or replace obligations
that new development may incur for mitigating impacts on infrastructure or the environment.

Section 16. BONDING AUTHORITY. “Pay as you go” is the preferred method of financing transportation improvements and services
under the Plan. However, the Authority may and is authorized to use bond financing as an alternative method if the scope and timing of planned
expenditures makes “pay as you go” infeasible. Following approval by the electors of the ballot proposition authorizing imposition of the transactions
and use tax, bonds may be issued by the Authority pursuant to Division 19 of the Public Utilities Code, at any time after imposition of taxes, and from
time to time, payable from the proceeds of the tax and secured by a pledge of revenues from the proceeds of the tax, in order to finance and refinance
improvements authorized by the ordinance. The maximum bonded indebtedness which may be outstanding at any one time shall be an amount

N VE 092-037

Full Text of Measure AA (continued)

equal to the sum of the principal of, and interest on, the bonds, but shall not exceed the estimated proceeds of the transactions and use tax, as
determined by the Plan.

Section 17. APPROPRIATIONS LIMIT. For purposes of Public Utilities Code section 180202, the appropriations limit for the Authority for
fiscal year 2017-18 shall be $495,000,000 and thereafter that amount should be amended pursuant to applicable law. All expenditures of the
transactions and use tax authorized herein shall be subject to the appropriations limit of the Authority.

Section 18. ADMINISTRATION AND SPENDING LIMIT. The Authority shall allocate revenues from the transactions and use tax to fund
facilities, services and projects as specified in the Plan and shall administer the ordinance and the Plan consistent with the authority cited. Revenues
from the tax may be expended by the Authority for salaries, wages, benefits, and overhead for those services, including contractual services,
necessary to carry out its responsibilities; however, in no case shall the tax revenues expended for salaries and benefits of the Authority
administrative staff exceed more than one percent (1 %) of the funds generated by the tax in any year. The Authority may, as the law permits, contract
with any public agency or private firm for services necessary to carry out the purposes of the ordinance and the Plan.

Section 19. SAFEGUARDS ON USE OF TAX PROCEEDS. The following safeguards are hereby established to ensure strict adherence
to limitations on the use of the proceeds from the transactions and use tax:

A.	A transportation special revenue fund (the “Local Transportation Authority Special Revenue Fund”) shall be established to
maintain all proceeds from the transactions and use tax.

B.	Receipt, maintenance and expenditure of proceeds from the transactions and use tax by any entity shall be distinguishable in
the entity's accounting records from other funding sources and expenditures shall be distinguishable by program or project. Interest earned on funds
allocated pursuant to the ordinance and the Plan shall be expended only for those purposes for which the funds were allocated.

C.	No proceeds from the transactions and use tax shall be used by any entity for other than the purposes authorized by the
ordinance and the Plan. Any entity that violates this provision must fully reimburse the Authority for the funds misspent, plus any accrued interest,
and will have any further allocations withheld until all funds are reimbursed.

Section 20. ALLOCATION OF FUNDS TO LOCAL JURISDICTIONS. The allocation formula for funds provided to local jurisdictions for
Local Streets, Roads and Transportation Priorities as shown in the Table on Page 2 of the Plan was established by a cooperative effort with all
jurisdictions in the county represented. The formula is based on the percentages of total road miles and total lane miles provided to the Authority as
of April 21,2016 by the local jurisdictions. The formula provides the following:

A.	The County of Ventura shall receive a percentage of the funds based upon the percentage of total road miles occurring within
the unincorporated area. These funds shall come “off the top” of the total funds available for Local Streets, Roads, and Transportation Priorities in
the Plan.

B.	Each city shall receive a percentage of the remaining funds based upon the percentage of total lane miles occurring within
the city relative to all incorporated lane miles for cities within the county.

C.	If a city's lane miles are such that its annual allocation does not equal at least $500,000, funds shall be deducted from the
County of Ventura’s share such that no city receives less than $500,000 annually.

D.	These formulas may be updated on an annual basis by local jurisdictions submitting evidence of new lane miles constructed
within a city or new road miles constructed within the unincorporated area of the county at which time all local jurisdiction shares will be adjusted
accordingly.

Section 21. ANNUAL REPORT. Annually the Authority shall publish a report on how all proceeds from the transactions and use tax have
been spent and on progress in implementing the Plan, and shall publicly report on the findings.

Section 22. REQUEST FOR ELECTION. Pursuant to California Public Utilities Code Section 180201, the Authority hereby requests that
the County of Ventura Board of Supervisors call a special election to be conducted by the County of Ventura on November 8, 2016 to place the
following measure before the electors:

N VE 092-038

Full Text of Measure AA (continued)

To help preserve Ventura County’s quality of life by:

fixing potholes, repaving streets, repairing bridges;

improving traffic flow and safety on 101 and 118;

keeping senior, veteran, disabled, and student bus fares affordable;

increasing bicycle and pedestrian safety; protecting waterways and

beaches from polluted runoff and restoring watersheds;

Shall Ventura County’s sales tax be increased by one-half cent for
thirty years, raising $70 million annually, with independent
oversight and audits, and with all funds benefiting local residents?

Section 23. COMPLIANCE WITH CALIFORNIA ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY ACT. The Authority finds that this ordinance is exempt
from the California Environmental Quality Act (Public Resources Code §§ 21000 ef “CEQA,” and 14 Cal. Code Reg. §§ 15000 etseq., “CEQA
Guidelines”). The transactions and use tax authorized by this ordinance is a special tax that can only be used to fund the projects, facilities, and
services described in the Plan but does not approve any of the described projects or services. As such, under CEQA Guidelines section 15378(b)(4),
the tax is not a project within the meaning of CEQA because it creates a government funding mechanism that does not involve any commitment to
any specific project or service that may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the environment. If revenue from the tax were used for a
purpose that would have such effect, the Authority or appropriate lead agency would undertake the required CEQA review for that particular project
or service. Therefore, pursuant to CEQA Guidelines Section 15060, review of the ordinance under CEQA is not required. Prior to commencement
of any project or service included in the Ventura County Investment/Expenditure Plan, any necessary environmental review required by CEQA shall
be completed. The Authority or appropriate lead agency for any project funded by the revenue from the tax shall perform CEQA analysis for the
project prior to approving the project or service, if the project or service requires analysis under CEQA.

Section 24. ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN. No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in
any suit, action or proceeding in any court against the State or the Authority, or against any officer of the State or the Authority, to prevent or enjoin
the collection under this ordinance, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be
collected.

Section 25. VALIDATION OF TAX AND BONDS. Any action or proceedings questioning, contesting, or denying the validity of the adoption
of this transactions and use tax ordinance or issuance of any bonds thereunder or any proceeding related thereto shall be commenced within six
months from the date of the election at which this ordinance is approved. Otherwise, the bonds and all proceedings related thereto, including the
adoption and approval of this ordinance, shall be held valid and in every respect legal and incontestable.

Section 26. SEVERABILITY. If any provision of this ordinance or the application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the
remainder of the ordinance and the application of such provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

Section 27. EFFECTIVE DATE. This ordinance relates to the levying and collecting of the District transactions and use taxes and shall
take effect immediately.

Section 28. TERMINATION DATE. The authority to levy the tax imposed by this ordinance shall expire March 31,2047.

N VE 092-039