Fillmore, California, Marijuana
Distribution Tax, Measure I
(November 2016)

| Text of measure

Ballot question

The following question appeared on the ballot:m

// Marijuana Distribution Tax. Shall the ordinance approving a permanent tax
not to exceed fifteen percent (15%) of all proceeds of marijuana sales in the
City, which is anticipated to raise approximately $665,000 annually, be
adopted? ®

Impartial analysis

The following impartial analysis of the measure was prepared by the office of the
Fillmore City Attorney:

Ballot Measure I was placed on the ballot by the City Council of the City of Fillmore.

A “Yes” vote on Measure I will approve a tax of up to fifteen percent of proceeds
from the sale or provision of marijuana within the City of Fillmore. The tax would
apply to the sale or provision of marijuana for medical purposes, as well as the sale or
provision of marijuana for recreational use.

The tax would not be payable to the City by the customer purchasing or receiving
marijuana. Payment of the tax shall be made to the City by the person or entity selling
or providing the marijuana.

The tax would be due to the City monthly. Any person that fails to pay the tax will be
subject to nonpayment penalties.

The City Council would have the power to amend or repeal the provisions of the tax
in any manner that does not result in an increase in the amount of the tax or broaden
the scope of the tax. This includes imposing the tax at a rate lower than the authorized
maximum rate, and establishing exemptions, incentives, or other reductions that are
otherwise allowed by California law. The City Manager would be authorized to
promulgate rules, regulations, and procedures to implement and administer the tax.

Measure I provides that any violation of the tax, or a violation of the rules,
regulations, or procedures promulgated by the City Manager to administer the tax
would be a misdemeanor. Such violations would also be public nuisances, and may
be abated as such. Knowingly or intentionally misrepresenting material facts
regarding the amount of tax owed would also be a misdemeanor.

The sale of marijuana in the City is currently prohibited by the Fillmore Municipal
Code. The tax does not authorize the conduct or continuance of any illegal or
unpermitted business or activity.21

Fillmore City Attorney121

Measure I - City of Fillmore

Impartial Analysis by City Attorney

Ballot Measure I was placed on the ballot by the City Council of the City of Fillmore.

A “Yes” vote on Measure I will approve a tax of up to fifteen percent of proceeds from the sale or provision of marijuana within the City of
Fillmore. The tax would apply to the sale or provision of marijuana for medical purposes, as well as the sale or provision of marijuana for
recreational use.

The tax would not be payable to the City by the customer purchasing or receiving marijuana. Payment of the tax shall be made to the
City by the person or entity selling or providing the marijuana.

The tax would be due to the City monthly. Any person that fails to pay the tax will be subject to nonpayment penalties.

The City Council would have the power to amend or repeal the provisions of the tax in any manner that does not result in an increase in
the amount of the tax or broaden the scope of the tax. This includes imposing the tax at a rate lower than the authorized maximum rate, and
establishing exemptions, incentives, or other reductions that are otherwise allowed by California law. The City Manager would be authorized to
promulgate rules, regulations, and procedures to implement and administer the tax.

Measure I provides that any violation of the tax, or a violation of the rules, regulations, or procedures promulgated by the City Manager
to administer the tax would be a misdemeanor. Such violations would also be public nuisances, and may be abated as such. Knowingly or
intentionally misrepresenting material facts regarding the amount of tax owed would also be a misdemeanor.

The sale of marijuana in the City is currently prohibited by the Fillmore Municipal Code. The tax does not authorize the conduct or
continuance of any illegal or unpermitted business or activity.

Tiffany J. Israel, City Attorney
City of Fillmore

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure I. If you desire a copy of the ordinance pertaining to Measure I, please call the City
Clerk’s office at 805-524-1500 ext. 211 and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you.

Argument in Favor of Measure I

A “Yes” vote on Measure I approves a tax of up to 15% of the proceeds from the sale or provision of marijuana within Fillmore. The adoption of
the tax does not make the sale of marijuana, for medical or recreational purposes, legal in Fillmore, but allows the City to tax the sale of marijuana
if it does become legal in the City.

The tax is a general tax and the proceeds will be used to help fund basic City services such as public safety; public parks and building
maintenance; youth, adult, and senior programs; and public infrastructure improvements.

The tax will not be charged directly to any customers purchasing or receiving marijuana. Payment of the tax is solely the responsibility of the
person or entity selling the marijuana.

There is at least one statewide proposition on the ballot that would legalize the sale of marijuana for recreational use in California if it passes.
Measure I will help Fillmore be prepared for this possibility by allowing the City to tax the sale of marijuana from the first day that recreational use
is legal. If the recreational use of marijuana is approved this November and this tax is not approved, the City would not have an opportunity to
enact a marijuana sales tax until the November 2018 election. The City would miss out on two years of tax revenue.

VOTE “YES” ON MEASURE I to help fund basic City services and allow the City to tax the sale of marijuana from the first day it is legal, if and
when it becomes legal, in Fillmore.

s/Diane McCall	s/Carrie Broggie	s/Manuel Minjares	s/Douglas Tucker	s/Rick Neal

Mayor	Mayor Pro Tern	Council Member	Council Member	Council Member

No Argument Against This Measure Was Submitted