MEASURE C

Shall the Ordinance establishing a cannabis cultivation tax of $2.00 per square foot of
licensed outdoor/mixed canopy area, increasing to $45.00 per pound maximum; and $5.00
per square foot of licensed indoor canopy area, increasing to $70.00 per pound maximum;
and a gross proceeds tax of (7%) on the manufacturing of cultivated cannabis; and a
gross proceeds tax of (7%) on medicinal or legal cannabis storefronts and collectives for
general governmental purposes be adopted?

CALAVERAS COUNTY
MEASURE C
IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL

FILED

JUL 1 5 2016

calAvera&county

COUNTY OF CALAVERAS	R^ccftTm^r/County Clerk

Cannabis General Tax — Measure C	----ijX. .	 •	Deputy

“Shall the Ordinance establishing a cannabis cultivation tax of $2.00 per square foot of licensed outdoor/mixed
canopy area, increasing to $45.00 per pound maximum; and $5.00 per square foot of licensed indoor canopy area,
increasing to $70.00 per pound maximum; and a gross proceeds tax of (7%) on the manufacturing of cultivated
cannabis; and a gross proceeds tax of (7%) on medicinal or legal cannabis storefronts and collectives for general
governmental purposes be adopted?”

A "YES” vote on this Measure would grant the County of Calaveras ("County”) legal authority to levy an annual
general tax in the unincorporated area of the County as follows:

1)	For Outdoor and Mixed Light Cannabis Cultivation Licensees or Registrants: $2.00 per
square foot of registered or permitted canopy area commencing upon adoption of the voters until
the Department of Food and Agriculture has established and implemented a track and trace
program under Business and Professions Code 19335 et seq. and thereafter $45.00 per pound of
dry weight flower and bud and $10.00 per pound of dry weight trim; and

2)	For Indoor Cannabis Cultivation Licensees or Registrants: $5.00 per square foot of
registered or permitted canopy area commencing upon adoption of the voters until the
Department of Food and Agriculture has established and implemented a track and trace program
under Business and Professions Code 19335 et seq; and thereafter $70.00 per pound of dry
weight flower and bud and $15.00 per pound of dry weight trim; and

3)	A gross proceeds tax of seven percent (7%) on the manufacturing of cultivated cannabis;
and a gross proceeds tax of seven percent (7%) on retail medicinal or legal cannabis storefronts,
collectives, and dispensaries.

A “NO” vote on this Measure is a vote against the levy of the general tax.

Measure C has been placed on the ballot by the Board of Supervisors, and must be approved by_
the voters of Calaveras County voting upon said Measure to become effective

.ajority of

tfAVID E. SIRIAS
ASSISTANT COUNTY COUNSEL

Any person desiring a copy of the details of this proposed Measure may telephone the Calaveras County
Board Clerk at (209) 754-6370.

THE ABOVE STATEMENT IS AN IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE C. IF YOU DESIRE A COPY OF
THE MEASURE, PLEASE CALL THE ELECTIONS OFFICE AT (209) 754-6376, AND A COPY WILL BE
MAILED TO YOU FREE OF CHARGE.

SIGNATURE STATEMENT

All arguments concerning measures filed pursuant to Division 9 of the California Elections Code shall be
accompanied by the following form statement, to be signed by each proponent and by each author, if
different, of the argument. Only the first five signatures will be printed in the Sample BallotA/oter
Information Pamphlet Sign in the order you would like to be placed in the Sample Ballot.

I I Argument Against
□ Rebuttal to the Argument in Favor of

The undersigned proponent(s) or author(s) of the
0 Argument in Favor of

0 Rebuttal to the Argument Against

ballot measure (insert letter)_

at the (insert type of election - Primary, General, Special)^ ___Oipne.	^Election

for the__

(insert name of jurisdiction - County, Special District, School District)
to be held on (insert election date)_ NCsVeMA,	Z£>[lr>	^hereby state that such

argument is trjdie^and corredj to^the^best of (insert his, her or their) ~~Hai \ knowledge and belief.

Signed	  Date	IL?_________

Print Name
Signed____

%Jr\

Print Name,
Signed____

Print Name,
Signed____

Print Name
Signed____

Date

Date

Date

Date

Print Name

Contact person:	It	Ig> j	i

1	Q

RGUMENT/REBUTTAL filed by (check any of the following that apply):

Id t)cKts

Phone # ~75Li

Board of Supervisors or Governing Board
0 Bona Fide Sponsors or Proponents of the Measure
0 Bona Fide Association of Citizens- Name of Association:
Principal Officers:_______________________________________

0 Individual Voter Eligible to Vote on the Measure

Calaveras County has experienced massive declines in revenue and staffing levels due to the loss of local
industries, coupled with the longest recession in our county's history, and the cost of the response and
recovery from one of the costliest fires in California's history. The revenue losses that have occurred
over the past years have negatively impacted our public safety and support. We are now in the process
of strictly regulating the cannabis cultivation industry. The passage of this initiative to tax cannabis
cultivation will increase the county's discretionary revenue that will provide the county with the ability
to properly manage important and necessary government services and programs, directly benefiting the
public. This may include additional public safety personnel and equipment, social service programs,
road improvements, parks and recreation, and other programs that the Board of Supervisors and public
deem necessary. Voting YES on this measure is independent of any other cannabis initiative on the
ballot. However, whether or not another cannabis initiative passes, the urgency ordinance adopted by
the Board of Supervisors remains in effect necessitating the cannabis cultivation tax. Proceeds from the
cannabis cultivation tax will remain in the County. Regardless of your opinion on cannabis, we look for
your vote to tax cannabis cultivation.

This Taxation Initiative is supported by our Board of Supervisor Chair, County Sheriff, Auditor-Controller,
and Chief Administrative Officer.

\

CALAVERAS COUNTY BOARD OF SUPERVISORS AGENDA SUBMITTAL

Short Name/Subject  Adopt an Ordinance Calling for an Election	Board Meeting Date  July 12, 2016	Agenda Number
Dept: County Counsel Contact: Megan Stedtfeld Phone: 209/754-6314	Supervisorial District Number  Countywide	Regular Agenda
Published Notice Required? Yes Public Hearing Required? No		Estimated Time:  0 Minutes
Type of Document?Ordinance  PowerPoint Presentation lncluded?No  Budget Transfer Included (Must be signed by Auditor)? No  Complete Agreement Required?No  Position Allocation Change?No		

RECOMMENDATION:

Adopt an Ordinance Calling a Special Election and consolidating it with the November 8, 2016
statewide presidential general election for the purpose of enabling the people of Calaveras
County to vote on the question of, whether a commercial cannabis cultivation tax of $2.00 per
square foot of licensed outdoor/mixed light canopy area, increasing to a maximum of $45.00 per
pound; and $5.00 per square foot of licensed indoor canopy area, increasing to a maximum of
$70.00 per pound; and a gross proceeds tax of seven percent (7%) on the manufacturing of
cultivated cannabis; and a gross proceeds tax of seven percent (7%) on retail medicinal or legal
cannabis storefronts, collectives and dispensaries for general governmental purposes.

DISCUSSION/SUMMARY:

Under Elections Code section 9140, the County Board of Supervisors may submit to the voters
an ordinance for enactment to be voted on at any succeeding regular election.

On June 21, 2016, the County Board of Supervisors introduced and waived reading of an
Ordinance Calling for the Special Election on Measure C to create a new County Code Chapter
3.56 and result in a tax on commercial cannabis cultivations. The proposed ordinance was
approved with a minor modification removing the reference to "leaf" throughout by a 4/5ths vote
of the Board.

On June 28, 2016, the Board of Supervisors approved the Minutes from the June 21, 2016
meeting at which this Ordinance was introduced and it is being brought back to the Board for
formal adoption.

In compliance with Government Code section 25142(b)(1), a copy of the full text of the
Ordinance is posted and is available to the public through the Calaveras County website at
http://calaverascountvca.iqm2.com/Citizens/Detail Meeting.aspx?ID=1997 and on June 28,
2016, a summary of the proposed Ordinance was published in the Calaveras Enterprise. Proof
of Publication is attached. The summary will also be published within 15 days after adoption of
the Ordinance.

The Tax Ordinance sought to be voted on under proposed Measure C is attached hereto would
create new County Code Chapter 3.56 and result in a tax on commercial cannabis cultivators,
but not medical patient or provider cultivators, along with ancillary businesses as follows:

1)	For Outdoor and Mix Light Registrants/Licensees: $2.00 per square foot of licensed
canopy area commencing upon adoption of the voters until the Department of Food and
Agriculture has established and implemented a track and trace program under Business and
Professions Code section 19335 et seq. and thereafter $45.00 per pound of dry weight flower
and bud and $10.00 per pound of dry weight trim; and

2)	For Indoor Registrants/Licensees: $5.00 per square foot of licensed canopy area
commencing upon adoption of the voters until the Department of Food and Agriculture has
established and implemented a track and trace program under Business and Professions Code
section 19335 et seq; and thereafter $70.00 per pound of dry weight flower and bud and $15.00
per pound of dry weight trim; and

3)	A gross proceeds tax of seven percent (7%) on the manufacturing of cultivated
cannabis; and a gross proceeds tax of seven percent (7%) on retail medicinal or legal cannabis
storefronts, collectives, and dispensaries for general governmental purposes upon approval of
the voters.

FINANCING:

The Elections Department will bear the cost of the Election.

ALTERNATIVES:

The Board could choose not to formally adopt this Ordinance Calling for an Election on
Commercial Cannabis Cultivation Tax - Measure C. However, failure to act will effectively result
in the tax measure not going before the voters.

OTHER AGENCY INVOLVEMENT:

Elections
APPROVED BY:

David Sirias, Assistant County Counsel	7/1/2016	David	Sirias,	Assistant	County	Counsel	7/1/2016

BOARD OF SUPERVISORS, COUNTY OF CALAVERAS
STATE OF CALIFORNIA
July 12, 2016

Ordinance	AN	ORDINANCE	OF	THE	BOARD	OF	SUPERVISORS	OF

No. 20160712O3070 THE COUNTY OF CALAVERAS, STATE OF CALIFORNIA,

CALLING A SPECIAL ELECTION AND CONSOLIDATING
IT WITH THE NOVEMBER 8,	2016 STATEWIDE

PRESIDENTIAL GENERAL ELECTION FOR THE PURPOSE
OF ENABLING THE PEOPLE OF CALAVERAS COUNTY TO
VOTE ON THE QUESTION OF, WHETHER A
COMMERCIAL CANNABIS CULTIVATION TAX OF $2.00
PER SQUARE FOOT OF LICENSED OUTDOOR/MIXED
LIGHT CANOPY AREA, INCREASING TO A MAXIMUM OF
$45.00 PER POUND; AND $5.00 PER SQUARE FOOT OF
LICENSED INDOOR CANOPY AREA, INCREASING TO A
MAXIMUM OF $70.00 PER POUND; AND A GROSS
PROCEEDS TAX OF SEVEN PERCENT (7%) ON THE
MANUFACTURING OF CULTIVATED CANNABIS; AND A
GROSS PROCEEDS TAX OF SEVEN PERCENT (7%) ON
RETAIL MEDICINAL OR LEGAL CANNABIS
STOREFRONTS, COLLECTIVES AND DISPENSARIES FOR
GENERAL GOVERNMENTAL PURPOSES, SHOULD BE
ADOPTED

The Board of Supervisors of the County of Calaveras ordains as follows:

SECTION 1. Recitals.

The Board finds that:

(a)	The County of Calaveras (hereafter the “County”), is a local agency, general law County,
and political subdivision of the State of California and with all necessary police powers reserved
under California Constitution Article 11.

(b)	California Business and Professions Code section 19348, Government Code sections
53723 and 53724, and Elections Code section 9140 provide that the County may impose a
general tax if said tax is adopted by a two-thirds vote of the Board of Supervisors and
subsequently approved by a majority of the electors voting on the measure at a special election
called for that purpose by the Board of Supervisors.

(c)	The Ordinance imposes a cultivation tax as follows: For Outdoor/Mixed Light
Commercial Licensees or Registrants under any cultivation ordinance, including an urgency
ordinance, in effect and adopted by the Board of Supervisors or ordinance initiated and passed
by the voters: $2.00 per square foot of licensed canopy area until the Department of Food and
Agriculture has established and implemented a track and trace Program under Business and
Professions Code 19335 et seq, at which time the tax rate shall be $45.00 per pound of dry
weight flower and bud and $10.00 per pound of dry weight trim.

For Indoor Commercial Licensees or Registrants under any cultivation ordinance, including an
urgency ordinance, in effect and adopted by the Board of Supervisors or ordinance initiated and
passed by the voters: $5.00 per square foot of licensed canopy area until the Department of
Food and Agriculture has established and implemented a track and trace program under

Business and Professions Code 19335 et seq, at which time the tax rate shall be $70.00 per
pound of dry weight flower and bud and $15.00 per pound of dry weight trim.

A gross proceeds tax of seven percent (7%) on the manufacturing of cultivated cannabis; and a
gross proceeds tax of seven percent (7%) on retail medicinal or legal cannabis storefronts,
collectives, and dispensaries for general governmental purposes upon approval of the voters.

(d)	Elections Code section 9140 authorizes the County to submit to the voters, without
Petition, the Ordinance and call and conduct the special election in the same manner as
provided by law.

SECTION 2. Approval or Rejection of the Ordinance by the voters.

The Board has concluded that it is required to provide the voters of Calaveras County with the
opportunity to approve or reject the Ordinance, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit "A"
and incorporated by reference herein, which would impose a cultivation tax as set forth in
Section 1 (c) above for general governmental purposes.

SECTION 3. Calling the Special Election.

The Board hereby calls a special election for the purpose of submitting to the voters the
question of whether the Ordinance should be approved or rejected. The Board further orders
and declares that:

(a)	Pursuant to Elections Code section 9140, the Board hereby orders and proclaims that
the question of whether the Ordinance should be approved, imposing a tax on Outdoor/Mix
Light Commercial Licensees and/or Registrants at the rate of $2.00 per square foot of licensed
canopy area until the Department of Food and Agriculture has established and implemented a
track and trace program under Business and Professions Code 19335 et seq, at which time the
tax rate shall be $45.00 per pound of dry weight flower and bud and $10.00 per pound of dry
weight trim; and on Indoor Licensees and/or Registrants at the rate of $5.00 per square foot of
licensed canopy area until the Department of Food and Agriculture has established and
implemented a track and trace program under Business and Professions Code 19335 et seq,
at which time the tax rate shall be $70.00 per pound of dry weight flower and bud and $15.00
per pound of dry weight trim; and a gross proceeds tax of seven percent (7%) on the
manufacturing of cultivated cannabis; and a gross proceeds tax of seven percent (7%) on retail
medicinal or legal cannabis storefronts, collectives, and dispensaries, for general governmental
purposes; and the question shall be submitted to the voters of the County of Calaveras at a
special election as Measure “C” to be held and conducted on the 8th day of November, 2016;
and the Elections Official is hereby instructed to place the matter on the November 8, 2016
ballot and include the full text of the Ordinance in the official ballot materials in the manner
mandated by the Elections Code.

(b)	Measure C shall be submitted as a measure on the ballot at said statewide presidential
general election, and the Elections Official hereby is instructed to place same on the ballot at
said election in a manner consistent with California Elections Code sections 13120 and 13247 in
the following form:

Shall the Ordinance establishing a cannabis cultivation tax of $2.00 per square
foot of licensed outdoor/mixed canopy area, increasing to $45.00 per pound
maximum; and $5.00 per square foot of licensed indoor canopy area, increasing
to $70.00 per pound maximum; and a gross proceeds tax of (7%) on the
manufacturing of cultivated cannabis; and a gross proceeds tax of (7%) on
medicinal or legal cannabis storefronts and collectives for general governmental
purposes be adopted?

□	Yes

□	No

(c)	The precincts shall be established and elections officers appointed for said election in
the manner required by law, and the elections officers shall conduct the election and make the
return thereof according to law.

(d)	This special election shall be, and it is, hereby consolidated with the statewide
presidential general election to be held on November 8, 2016, and all precincts established and
all election officers appointed for the statewide presidential general election shall be the
precincts and election officers for this special election, and these election officers shall conduct
the consolidated election and make the return thereof according to law.

(e)	California Elections Code section 9160, et seq., shall apply to this consolidated special
election.

(f)	The polls shall be open from the hours of 7:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. on said election day,
and the manner of holding the election and the procedure for voting for and against the question
presented shall be as set forth in the Elections Code for a local county special election which is
consolidated with a statewide presidential general election.

(g)	The Impartial Analysis by the County Counsel in the form required by subparagraph (b)
of Elections Code section 9160 shall be prepared on or before August 12, 2016, and filed with
the Elections Official no later than 4:00 p.m. on said day and included in the official ballot
materials.

(h)	Notice be, and it hereby is given that the final date for submission to the Elections
Official of arguments not to exceed 300 words in length for or against the measure shall be July
22, 2016, and such arguments shall be submitted to the Elections Official, 891 Mountain Ranch
Road, San Andreas, CA 95249, no later than 4:00 p.m. on said day and included in the official
ballot materials.

(i)	The final date for submission to the Elections Official of rebuttal arguments for or against
the measure, to the extent rebuttal arguments are permitted by section 9167 of the Elections
Code, shall be August 2, 2016, and such arguments shall be submitted to the Elections Official,
891 Mountain Ranch Road, San Andreas, CA 95249, no later than 4:00 p.m. on said day and
included in the official ballot materials.

(j)	A fiscal impact statement by the County Auditor, which is authorized by Elections Code
section 9160(c), is not required.

(k)	The Clerk conducting the election may publish a notice of the election in a newspaper of
general circulation within the County of Calaveras not later than fifty (50) days prior to the
election.

(l)	The sample ballot to be mailed to the voters, pursuant to Sections 9160 and 13303 of
the Elections Code, shall include a statement that voters may contact the Elections Official at
(209) 754-6376 for a copy of the full text of the Ordinance, and a complete copy of the
Ordinance can be mailed to the voter at no charge.

(m)	Pursuant to Elections Code section 12001, a Proclamation of Election is hereby issued
for said election and the measure to be voted on in accordance with the terms hereinabove
stated.

SECTION 4. Severance.

If any section, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this Ordinance is for any reason held to be
invalid or unconstitutional by the decision of any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision
shall not affect the validity of the remaining portion of this Ordinance, or any amendments
thereto.

SECTION 5. Effective Date.

Pursuant to Elections Code section 9141 and Government Code sections 25123 and 25131,
this ordinance shall take effect immediately as an ordinance calling or otherwise relating to an
election.

The foregoing ORDINANCE was introduced on June 21, 2016 and duly passed by the Board of
Supervisors of the County of Calaveras at a regular meeting held on July 12, 2016.

AYES:	Edson,	Wright,	Oliveira,	Ponte,	Kearney

ATTEST