online EDiTiONSan Francisco Voter Information Pamphlet & Sample

BallotConsolidated General Election
November 8, 2016

V

Tax on Distributing Sugar-Sweetened
Beverages

Shall the City collect a tax of one cent per ounce from the distributors of sugar-sweetened
beverages?

Digest by the Ballot Simplification Committee

The Way It Is Now: The City does not impose a tax on the distribution of sugar-sweetened beverages.

The Proposal: Proposition V would place a tax of one cent per ounce on the distribution of sugar-sweetened
beverages.

A sugar-sweetened beverage is a beverage that contains added sugar and 25 or more calories per 12 ounces.
These include some soft drinks, sports drinks, iced tea, juice drinks and energy drinks. The tax would also
apply to syrups and powders that can be made into sugar-sweetened beverages, for example, fountain drinks
from beverage-dispensing machines.

The distributors of sugar-sweetened beverages in San Francisco would be responsible for paying the tax. The
tax would not apply to retail sales of sugar-sweetened beverages.

Some beverages would not be subject to the tax, including:

•	Diet sodas;

•	Beverages that contain only natural fruit and vegetable juice;

•	Infant formula;

•	Milk from animal or vegetable sources, including soy, rice and almond milk;

•	Nutritional therapy, rehydration and other beverages for medical use; and

•	Alcoholic beverages.

A 16-member Advisory Committee would be established to evaluate the impact of the tax on beverage pricing,
consumer purchasing behavior, and public health. The Committee would also advise the Mayor and Board of
Supervisors about how to reduce the consumption of sugar-sweetened beverages in San Francisco.

The City could use the proceeds of the tax for any governmental purpose.

A “YES” Vote Means: If you vote “yes,” you want the City to collect a tax of one cent per ounce from the
distributors of sugar-sweetened beverages.

A “NO” Vote Means: If you vote “no,” you do not want this tax.

Controller’s Statement on “V”

City Controller Ben Rosenfield has issued the following statement on the fiscal impact of Proposition V:

Should this ordinance be approved, in my opinion, it would result in an annual tax revenue increase to the City
of approximately $7.5 million in fiscal year (FY) 2017-2018 and $15 million in FY 2018-19. The tax is a
general tax and proceeds would be deposited into the General Fund.

The measure would amend the City’s Business Tax and Regulations Code to impose a one cent per fluid ounce
tax on the initial distribution within San Francisco of sugar sweetened beverages, beginning on January 1,
2018. Administrative costs to implement this ordinance would have a minimal impact on the cost of
government.

The proposed amendment would establish a Sugary Drinks Distributor Tax Advisory Committee that would
make recommendations to the Mayor and the Board of Supervisors on the effectiveness of the tax. Starting in
2018 the committee would submit an annual report that evaluates the impact of the tax on beverage prices,
consumer purchasing behavior, and public health, and makes recommendations on the potential establishment
and/or funding of programs to reduce the consumption of sugar-sweetened beverages in San Francisco. The
committee would be in place until December 31, 2028 unless extended by the Board of Supervisors.

How “V” Got on the Ballot

On June 21, 2016, the Department of Elections received a proposed ordinance signed by the following
Supervisors: Cohen, Farrell, Mar, Wiener.

The Municipal Elections Code allows four or more Supervisors to place an ordinance on the ballot in this
manner.

This measure requires 50%+l affirmative votes to pass.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of this measure. Some of the words used in the ballot digest are

explained in Words you need to know >.

HideProponent’s Argument in Favor of Proposition V

Scientific evidence demonstrates that there is a direct link between sugary drinks and diseases like obesity,
diabetes, dental decay and even liver disease, driving up healthcare costs for everyone. San Francisco pays
over 87 million dollars for direct and indirect costs of diabetes.

Sugar is a toxin that goes straight to the liver and other vital organs. 46 percent of the population has diabetes
or is on the path to getting it. For Latinos and African Americans, the rate is even higher. One of every three
children born after 2000 will develop diabetes during their lifetimes. Prop V will help to turn these trends
around.

Prop V is a one-penny per ounce tax, paid only by the distributors of sodas and sugary drinks, generating $15
million annually that can be used to support health education programs, improving access to drinking water,
expanding school nutrition programs, to improve children’s health.

Prop V requires the distributors of sugary beverages pay the tax. It is not a grocery tax or a tax on
consumers.

Berkeley approved a similar measure in 2014, and has been a success. It has raised almost two million dollars
per year for health programs, with no negative impacts on businesses or jobs.

Prop V is a result of advocates from low-income and communities of color, asking policy leaders to address
the health needs of their communities.

The American Heart Association, San Francisco Medical Society, San Francisco Dental Society, local doctors,
dentists, nurses and public health professionals all urge your support of Proposition V.

Please vote yes for children’s health. Vote Yes on Prop V.

Supervisor Malia Cohen
Mayor Ed Lee
Supervisor Eric Mar
Supervisor Scott Wiener
Supervisor Mark Farrell
Supervisor John Avalos

San Francisco Medical Society
NAACP

American Heart Association
San Francisco Dental Society
NICOS Chinese Health Coalition

Arguments are the opinions of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency. Arguments are
published as submitted. Spelling and grammatical errors have not been corrected.

HideRebuttal to Proponent’s Argument in Favor of Proposition V

Please do the research for yourself on Proposition V. The politicians say it is about health—but a few
moments of research online will show it is a tax that will raise the cost of food and groceries.

A close read of the ballot digest in this voter guide also shows thatALL OF THE PROCEEDS of the
proposed grocery tax go to the general fund—which means the politicians can spend it on anything they
want.

The same is true in Berkeley where a grocery tax is working to increase costs.

Proposition V is a tax on the distributors of hundreds of beverages and products, not on the products
themselves.The distributors are people like your neighborhood grocery store or restaurant owner. Nothing in
the law prevents all of the tax from being passed on to consumers by increasing the price of any items in a
store or restaurant and the grocers and restaurant owners report that is exactly what they will be forced to do.
Because low-income families spend a greater percentage of their income on groceries, they are hurt the
most. A new study by leading economists showed that raising grocery taxes increases food insecurity for the
poorest Americans. You can read this research at www.SFGROCERYTAXFACTS.ORG.

Proposition V was placed on the ballot by four supervisors after they failed to submit enough signatures
from voters. San Francisco voters rejected a similar measure in 2014.

Enough is enough. Vote NO on Proposition V.

Henry Karnilowicz, President

San Francisco Council of District Merchant Associations
Mitchell Omerberg, President
Affordable Housing Alliance

Arguments are the opinions of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency. Arguments are
published as submitted. Spelling and grammatical errors have not been corrected.

HideOpponent's Argument Against Proposition V

The politicians say this tax is about health, but not one penny is dedicated to health programs. The official
digest states, “The City could use the proceeds of the tax for any governmental purpose.”

San Franciscans are already being priced out of our city.

Now a few politicians want to make San Francisco even more expensive with a grocery tax — even though
voters rejected a similar tax in 2014.

The politicians call it a tax on sodas. If you do your own research you will see that is not true.

Instead of being imposed directly on beverages, this tax is imposed on “distributors,” including small business
owners like me. This is because state law restricts the ability of local governments to impose a sales tax
directly on most beverages. Nothing prevents this tax from being passed on to any item in our grocery stores
and restaurants.

Small businesses like mine are under so much pressure from rising costs we will be forced to pass this tax on
to customers - meaning higher food and grocery prices.

So even if consumers don’t buy sodas, their grocery bills could still go up. That is not fair.

Senator Bernie Sanders disagrees with these types of regressive taxes, saying it is “...a regressive grocery tax
that would disproportionately affect low-income and middle-class Americans.”

Even the chief sponsor of this tax admits it hurts poor people the most. Her direct quote is: “This tax definitely
affects those folks at the bottoms.”

Over a thousand neighborhood grocers and restaurant owners oppose Proposition V because it is a tax on
groceries.

Enough is enough. We have higher priorities, and the last thing we need is a grocery tax. Vote NO on
Proposition V.

Learn the facts yourself at www.DontTaxOurGroceries.com.

Troy Reese

Owner, Queen’s Louisiana Po Boy Cafe

Arguments are the opinions of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency. Arguments are
published as submitted. Spelling and grammatical errors have not been corrected.

HideRebuttal to Opponent’s Argument Against Proposition V

The Beverage Industry is solely funding the campaign against Prop V.

Don't let Big Soda fool you. Prop V is NOT a grocery tax. There is no data that supports Big Soda's claim
that this tax will be passed onto other products. Berkeley passed a nearly identical tax in 2014 and consumers
have NOT seen the costs of groceries go up.

The Beverage Industry calls this a regressive tax, but let's be honest - Type 2 Diabetes is a REGRESSIVE
DISEASE. If the Beverage Industry is so concerned about the health of people in low income communities,
they would stop targeting them with aggressive marketing. They would not have spent $28 million last year on
marketing specifically targeting African American and Latino youth. 50 percent of African American youth
(vs. 25 percent White youth) after 2000 will contract Type 2 Diabetes in their lifetime. This is not a
coincidence.

Big Soda is concerned about the scientific evidence that health problems, including diabetes and obesity, are
linked with drinking sugary drinks.

Big Soda disputes medical research and uses the same arguments Big Tobacco used against cigarette taxes. But
cigarette taxes work, and save lives. Who do you trust: doctors, dentists and researchers, or Big Soda?
Accountability is written into Prop V. The measure creates a committee of experts in medicine, oral health and
education to make recommendations to the Board of Supervisors about funding programs that improve
children's health in San Francisco. This system has been proven to work.

YES ON PROP V.

Get the facts yourself - www.sfunitedtoreducediabetes.com
San Francisco Medical Society
American Heart Association

Arguments are the opinions of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency. Arguments are
published as submitted. Spelling and grammatical errors have not been corrected.

HidePaid Arguments in Favor of Proposition V
Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition V

As the nation's oldest and largest organization committed to fighting cardiovascular diseases, the American
Heart Association proudly supports Prop V.

Our mission is to build healthier lives, free of cardiovascular disease and stroke. Most people consume more
sugar than is healthy. The AHA recommends that women consume no more than five teaspoons of added sugar
a day and men consume no more than nine teaspoons a day. Yet, a 20-ounce bottle of soda contains the
equivalent of approximately 17 teaspoons of sugar. Sugary drinks contribute to an epidemic of obesity and
diabetes, especially among children of color. We must do something today to address this crisis.

The damage caused by these sugars goes beyond our waistlines. We know they also hurt our heart health.
Research suggests that high intake of added sugar in your diet could increase your risk of dying from
cardiovascular disease and exacerbate existing health problems.

Stand with health researchers and doctors at the American Heart Association.

Support Prop V.

American Heart Association

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this argument: American Heart Association.

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition V

Join doctors and medical professionals at the San Francisco Medical Society and support Prop V.

The rise in obesity among both American children and adults presents a looming health disaster, and also an
economic one. Obesity, diabetes, heart disease are all linked to overconsumption of sugar. $41 billion is spent
treating obesity in our state annually. Taxes can not only decrease consumption, but the revenues can also be
used for education to prevent over consumption and to treat related conditions.

The soda industry is a multi-billion dollar interest that spends hugely to market soda and is expected to mimic
the tobacco industry in its opposition to this proposal. Respected medical and public health voices are crucial
in such battles, and the SFMS is proud to join in this effort on behalf of physicians and their patients.

San Francisco Medical Society

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this argument: San Franciscans United to Reduce Diabetes in Children.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient committee: 1. Michael Bloomberg, 2. Action Now Initiative, 3.
Ben Lilienthal.

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition V

I am a small business owner in San Francisco and I support Prop V.

Prop V is NOT a grocery tax. Prop V is only a tax on sugary beverages and sodas.

There are alternatives to sugary beverages and sodas, including bottled water and diet soda. These products are
all made by the same companies, brought by the same truck drivers and sold in the same stores that dispense
regular soda, so don’t believe the lies.

Prop V will NOT cost any jobs or hurt small business.

Big tobacco said the same thing when communities asked to remove smoking from restaurants and bars - and
they were wrong!

Stand with me and other small businesses in San Francisco. Support Prop V.

Carmen Elias, Bakery La Mejor

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this argument: San Franciscans United to Reduce Diabetes in Children.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient committee: 1. Michael Bloomberg, 2. Action Now Initiative, 3.
Benjamin Lilienthal.

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition V

The San Francisco Parent PAC supports Prop V because the health of our children is of the utmost importance.
We recognize that soda and sugary beverages are empty calories, and we are concerned about the
disproportionate impact they are having in the Type II diabetes epidemic. Prop V is sensible public health
policy that is backed by years of research.

Too many kids are becoming regular soda drinkers, and teens often don’t understand the serious health
impacts. Prop V will help reverse this trend.

Funds from Prop V can also expand physical education and nutritious foods at our public schools, as well as
provide much needed funds for after-school program.

Parents in San Francisco urge you to vote YES on Prop V.

San Francisco Parent PAC

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this argument: San Franciscans United to Reduce Diabetes in Children.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient committee: 1. Michael Bloomberg, 2. Action Now Initiative, 3.
Benjamin Lilienthal.

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition V

The San Francisco Dental Society supports Proposition Vbecause it will improve the health of all San
Franciscans.

Reducing the amount of soda consumed by San Francisco’s children and adolescents will reduce chronic
diseases including diabetes, as well as dental disease - the number one chronic disease in children. The high
levels of sugar and acid make these beverages exceptionally damaging to teeth.

Oral health is essential to overall health. Dental disease is experienced by over two thirds of California
children. Nearly 40% of San Francisco children have experienced caries by the time they reach kindergarten,
impacting school attendance, and their ability to learn.

Dental caries are largely preventable and prevention includes reducing the consumption of sugary beverages.

We support this measure to improve the oral health and the overall health of San Francisco’s resident by
curbing the consumption of sugary beverages.

San Francisco Dental Society

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this argument: San Franciscans United to Reduce Diabetes in Children.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient committee: 1. Michael Bloomberg, 2. Action Now Initiative, 3.
Benjamin Lilienthal.

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition V

The National Coalition for 100 Black Women supports Prop V.

Diseases linked to consumption of soda and sugary beverages is hurting our community. We can no longer sit
in silence while a crisis is unfolding in the Black community and causing the highest rates of diabetes and
hypertension among our children and adults. African Americans are twice as likely to be diagnosed with
diabetes as whites. In San Francisco, 40 percent of African American women over 45 have some form of
diabetes.

Big Soda’s marketing continues to target African Americans disproportionately relative to the white
community. Black youth saw more than twice as many TV ads for sugary drinks. If soda companies were
really concerned about the health of our community, they wouldn’t market to us relentlessly. Prop V will help
us change these statistics.

SUPPORT PROP V.

National Coalition for 100 Black Women

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this argument: San Franciscans United to Reduce Diabetes in Children.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient committee: 1. Michael Bloomberg, 2. Action Now Initiative, 3.
Ben Lilienthal.

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition V

Soda and sugary beverages are harming our parishioners and our community. As faith leaders, when we see
something harming our communities, we are obligated to speak up and take action. Our communities aren't just
plagued by poverty, lack of opportunity, and guns — they are plagued by the aggressive marketing tactics of
soda companies who dump their products into our neighborhoods, making them cheap and available on every
corner.

Studies show that regular consumption of sugary soda and beverages is very harmful- more harmful than
eating sugary foods. We are concerned about our families and friends who are suffering from type II diabetes
and heart disease. We need both education AND incentives for healthier choices to make a difference. Vote
YES on V.

True Hope Church of God in Christ (COGIC)

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this argument: San Franciscans United to Reduce Diabetes in Children.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient committee: 1. Michael Bloomberg, 2. Action Now Initiative, 3.
Benjamin Lilienthal.

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition V

The NAACP supports Prop V.

One-third of all children are predicted to develop diabetes in their lifetimes. African American and Latino
children are at even greater risk, with nearly one in two expected to develop diabetes in their lifetimes.

Beverage companies spend more than $28 million a year on marketing campaigns specifically targeting
African-Americans and Hispanic youth. Sugar sweetened beverages are directly correlated to this increased
consumption. This is not acceptable.

The soda industry pretends to be concerned about the pocketbooks of low-income families but they refuse to
talk about the health consequences that their products perpetuate in our community.

Sugary drinks play a large role in the alarming obesity and diabetes crisis that disproportionately affects the
African-American community.

Vote YES on Prop V.

NAACP - San Francisco Chapter

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this argument: San Franciscans United to Reduce Diabetes in Children.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient committee: 1. Michael Bloomberg, 2. Action Now Initiative, 3.
Ben Lilienthal.

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition V

Asian American Families Support Prop V

Many people in the Asian American community don’t believe sugary beverages are impacting their health, but
the truth is that many of the diseases caused by these drinks, including diabetes and dental decay are hurting
our community. While the Asian American community may be less overweight, it is actually at greater risk for
developing diabetes.

Asian Americans have the highest proportion of undiagnosed diabetes among all racial groups, and in San
Francisco, Chinatown has some of the highest rates of dental decay. In the Chinatown zip code, 53 percent of
kindergartners suffer from cavities.

Sugary beverages in our communities are directly correlated to these statistics. Prop V can help us turn this
around.

Vote Yes on Prop V.

APA Family Support Services

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this argument: APA Family Support Services.

Arguments are the opinions of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency. Arguments are
published as submitted. Spelling and grammatical errors have not been corrected.

HidePaid Arguments Against Proposition V
Paid Argument AGAINST Proposition V

Our City’s Grocers Say No On The Food And Grocery Tax, No On Prop V

Enough is enough—we don’t need a new tax on groceries.

As grocery store owners, our customers come to our markets to buy their food and we are already struggling to
keep costs down.

This new tax is placed on our shoulders. And many of us just can’t afford to pay any more. We have two
choices—go out of business and give in to the big chains or to pass some or all of the costs on to our
customers. They are both bad choices.

That’s why we are standing up, like so many others, to say NO to this tax on food and groceries.

Please join us in voting NO on V—NO on the grocery tax.

Omar Abunie, owner, Mission Groceteria*

Ramneek Singh, owner, Geary-Hyde Market*

Zinaida Fudym, owner, New World Market*

Spiros Johnson, owner, 25th & Clement Street Produce*

Ali A. Ali, owner, Jupiter Market*

Victor B. Qare, owner, New College Hill Market*

*For identification purposes only; author is signing as an individual and not on behalf of an organization.

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this argument: No on V, Enough is Enough: Don't Tax Our Groceries.
The sole contributor to the true source recipient committee: American Beverages Association California PAC.

Paid Argument AGAINST Proposition V

San Francisco Restaurant Owners Say No On Prop V, No to the Food And Grocery Tax.

As restaurant owners, we are small business owners who are proud to serve our San Francisco customers, and
we want to make sure our restaurants can continue to provide delicious and nutritious meals at an affordable
price.

That’s why we are joining a coalition of over 1,000 San Francisco restaurant owners, grocers and comer stores
opposed to Proposition V—the proposed tax on food and groceries.

Our costs and rents keep going up. Just like grocers, we will be forced to pass on much or all of this new tax to
our customers. The politicians who say otherwise just don’t understand how much pressure we face now as
small business owners.

The last thing we need to do is make groceries and food more expensive for our customers.

Say NO to Prop V. No to the food and grocery tax.

Golden Gate Restaurant Association

SoledadMarquez, owner, Grandma's Deli and Cafe*

Nagham Aboufaraj, owner, Angel Cafe and Deli
Douglas Gardali, owner, Ernesto’s Italian Restaurant

*For identification purposes only; author is signing as an individual and not on behalf of an organization.

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this argument: No on V, Enough is Enough: Don't Tax Our Groceries.
The sole contributor to the true source recipient committee: American Beverage Association California PAC.

Paid Argument AGAINST Proposition V

Vote NO on Proposition V.

In 2014, San Francisco voters rejected a tax on sodas and other drinks containing sugar. This November, we're
voting on the same issue once again.

We already pay sales taxes on sports drinks and sodas. Proposition V creates a new tax that consumers will
end-up paying.

The City can spend this new tax however it wants, even on proposals unrelated to public health.

San Francisco Republican Party
Jason P. Clark, Chairman

Chantal Anderson, Christopher L. Bowman, Charles Cagnon, Howard Epstein, Terence Faulkner, Stephanie
Jeong, Ken Loo, Lisa Remmer, Scott Williams, Josh York

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this argument: San Francisco Republican Party.

The two contributors to the true source recipient committee: Charles Moore, Stephanie Jeong.

Paid Argument AGAINST Proposition V

Would you support a law letting your doctor penalize you for buying foods or beverages s/he thinks are
unhealthy for you? For instance, requiring you to pay an extra tax on eggs if s/he thinks your cholesterol's too
high?

Or do you, like most people, prefer to limit your doctor's role to giving you advice, and then make your own
health decisions after listening to that advice?

If you don't want your food and beverage choices taxed at the doctor's office in the name of good health, how
about a law letting politicians who have no medical training and know nothing about your personal health
situation impose a penalty on you to fund their political agendas via a one-size-fits-all tax on sweetened
beverages?

Not such a hot idea, right? Yet that's what Supervisors are pushing with Paternalistic Prop. V. San Francisco
voters rejected a similar tax just two years ago, but it's back again because the busybodies at City Hall can't
stop subjecting the public to their pet social engineering schemes. Do they think wefre too dumb to make
our own health decisions and want to treat all of us like children? Or are they just pathologically greedy?
As observers of the "War on Drugs" know, treating adults like children doesn't work very well. The authors of
a recent University of Washington study stated flatly, "Our research does not support the theory that soda
taxes have a negative effect on body-mass index ”

(http://tinyurl.com/SodaTaxFail)

Another academic study, focused on fat taxes which share many similarities with taxes on sugar, characterized
them as "extremely regressive, " noting, "the elderly and poor suffer much greater welfare losses from the taxes
than do younger and richer consumers. "

( http://tinyurl.com/SodaTaxDoubleFail)

Let's keep government out of the fridge!

Vote NO on Proposition V.

Libertarian Party of San Francisco
www.LPSF.org

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this argument: Libertarian Party of San Francisco.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient committee: 1. Scott Banister, 2. Francoise Fielding, 3.

Libertarian Party of California.

Arguments are the opinions of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency. Arguments are
published as submitted. Spelling and grammatical errors have not been corrected.

HideLegal Text

Ordinance amending the Business and Tax Regulations Code by imposing a tax of one cent per ounce on the
distribution of sugar-sweetened beverages, and amending the Administrative Code by creating a Sugary Drinks
Distributor Tax Advisory Committee.

NOTE: Unchanged Code text and uncodified text are in plain font.

Additions to Codes are in single-underline italics Times New Roman font.

Be it ordained by the People of the City and County of San Francisco:

Section 1. The Business and Tax Regulations Code is hereby amended by adding Article 8, consisting of Sections 550
through 560 to read as follows:

ARTICLE 8: SUGARY DRINKS DISTRIBUTOR TAX ORDINANCE
SEC. 550. SHORT TITLE.

This Article shall be known as the “Sugary Drinks Distributor Tax Ordinance.”

SEC. 551. FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.

The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, the U.S. Department of Agriculture, and the World Health
Organization, based on a summary of the available evidence linking intake of added sugar and sugar-sweetened
beverages (SSBs) to adverse health outcomes including obesity and diabetes. have recommended that Americans consume
no more than 10% of their daily calories in the form of added sugar. Yet, standard single serving siz.es of SSBs provide all
(in a 20-ounce serving of mam SSBs) or nearly all (in a 12-ounce serving) of the recommended maximum daily added
sugar amount for most adults, and generally exceed the recommended maximum daily added sugar amount for children.

Numerous organizations and agencies, including the American Heart Association, American Diabetes Association,
American Academy of Pediatrics, Institute of Medicine of the National Academies, American Medical Association, and the
Centers for Disease Control, recommend limiting intake of added sugar and SSBs to improve health. Sugary beverages,
though they can contain hundreds of calories in a serving, do not signal '[fullness” to the brain and thus facilitate
overconsumption.

Studies show that sugary beverages flood the liver with high amounts of sugar in a short amount of time, and that this
“sugar rush” over time leads to fat deposits and metabolic disturbances that cause diabetes, cardiovascular disease, and
other serious health problems Diseases connected to sugary beverages disproportionately impact minorities and low-
income communities. For example, diabetes hospitalizations are more than triple in low-income communities as compared
with higher income areas. African American death rates from DM2 are five times higher than San Francisco’s overall

rate. DM2 is the fifth leading cause of death in SF (which is an underestimate, since heart disease, the leading killer, fs
6>/fe/2 <2 result of DM2); DM2 reduces the lifespan of San Franciscans by eight to ten years.

As recently as 2010, nearly a third of children and adolescents in San Francisco were obese or overweight: and in
San Francisco, 46.4% of adults are obese or overweight, including 61.7% of Hispanics and 51.3% of African Americans.
Nationally, childhood obesity has more than doubled in children and tripled in adolescents in the past 30 years; in 2010,
more than one-third of children and adolescents were overweight or obese. Every additional sugary beverage consumed
daily can increase a child’s risk for obesity by 60%; and one or two sugary beverages per day increases the risk of Type II
diabetes by 26%.

Sugary beverages, including sweetened alcoholic drinks, represent nearly 50% of added sugar in the American diet,
and, on average, 11% of daily calories consumed by children in the U.S.

Seven percent of San Franciscans are diagnosed with diabetes, and it is estimated that the City and County of San
Francisco pays over $87 million for direct and indirect diabetes care costs.

This Article 8 is intended to discourage the distribution and consumption of sugar-sweetened beverages in San
Francisco by taxing their distribution. Mexico, where an average of 163 liters of sugar-sweetened beverages are
consumed per person each year, enacted an excise tax on sugary drinks, with the result that the purchase of taxed sugar
sweetened beverages declined by 12% generally and by 17% among low-income Mexicans. The Mexico data indicate that,
when people cut back on SSBs, to a significant extent they choose lower-caloric or non-caloric alternatives. This body of
research demonstrates that taxation can provide a powerful incentive for individuals to reduce their consumption of SSBs,
which in turn will reduce obesity and DM2.

The City of Berkeley became the first city in the United States to follow in Mexico's footsteps, by passing a one-cent-
per-ounce general tax on distributors of SSBs within the city limits. It is estimated that the City of Berkeley, which began
implementing the tax in March 2015, will collect at least $1.2 million from the tax annually.

SEC. 552. DEFINITIONS.

Unless otherwise defined in this Article 8, terms that are defined in Article 6 of the Business and Tax Regulations
Code shall have the meanings provided therein. For purposes of this Article, the following definitions shall apply.

“Beverage for Medical Use” means a beverage suitable for human consumption and manufactured for use as an oral
nutritional therapy for persons who cannot absorb or metabolize dietary nutrients from food or beverages, or for use as
an oral rehvdration electrolyte solution formulated to prevent or treat dehydration due to illness. “Beverage for Medical
Use” also means a “medical food” as defined in Section 109971 of the California Health and Safety Code. “Beverage for
Medical Use ” shall not include beverages commonly referred to as “sports drinks,” or any other similar names.

“Bottle ” means any closed or sealed container regardless o f size or shape, including, without limitation, those made
of glass, metal, paper, plastic, or any other material or combination of materials.

“Bottled Sugar-Sweetened Beverage ” means any Sugar-Sweetened Beverage contained in a Bottle that is ready for
consumption without further processing, such as, and without limitation, dilution or carbonation.

“Caloric Sweetener ” means any substance or combination of substances that is suitable for human consumption, that
humans perceive as sweet, and that adds calories to the diet of any human who consumes it. “Caloric Sweetener”
includes, but is not limited to, sucrose, fructose, glucose, other sugars, and high fructose corn syrup.

“City” means the City and County of San Francisco.

“Distribution” includes:

(a)	The transfer in the City, for consideration, of physical possession of Sugar-Sweetened Beverages, Syrup, or
Powder by any person other than a common carrier. “Distribution” also includes the transfer of physical possession in
the City by any person other than a common carrier, without consideration, for promotional or any other commercial
purpose.

(b)	The possession, storage, ownership, or control in the City, by any person other than a common carrier, of
Sugar-Sweetened Beverages, Syrup, or Powder for resale in the ordinary course of business, obtained by means of a
transfer of physical possession outside the City or from a common carrier in the City.

“Distribution” does not include:

(a)	The return of any Sugar-Sweetened Beverages, Syrup, or Powder to a person, if that person refunds the
entire amount paid in cash or credit.

(b)	A retail sale or use.

“Distributor” means any person engaged in the business of Distribution of Bottled Sugar-Sweetened Beverages,
Syrup, or Powder. A Distributor does not include a common carrier. Where a common carrier obtains physical possession
of Sugar-Sweetened Beverages, Syrup, or Powder outside the City and transfers physical possession of the Sugar-
Sweetened Beverages, Syrup, or Powder in the City, the transferee of the Sugar-Sweetened Beverages, Syrup, or Powder
is a Distributor.

“Milk Product” means: (a) any beverage whose principal ingredient by weight is natural liquid milk secreted by an
animal. “Milk” includes natural milk concentrate and dehydrated natural milk, whether or not reconstituted; and (b) any
plant-based substance or combination of substances in which (1) water and (2) grains, nuts, legumes, or seeds constitute

the two greatest ingredients by volume. For purposes of this definition, “Milk Product” includes, but is not limited to, soy
milk, almond milk, rice milk, coconut milk,	milk, oaf milk, hazelnut milk, or flax milk;

“Natural Fruit Juice ” means the original liquid resulting from the pressing of fruit, the liquid resulting from the
complete reconstitution of natural fruit juice concentrate, or f/ie	resulting	from	the complete restoration of water to

dehydrated natural fruit juice.

“Natural Vegetable Juice” means the original liquid resulting from the pressing of vegetables, the liquid resulting
from the complete reconstitution of natural vegetable juice concentrate, or	/igmVi resulting from the complete

restoration of water to dehydrated natural vegetable juice.

“Nonalcoholic Beverage ” means any beverage that is not subject to tax under California Revenue and Taxation
Code sections 32001 et seq. as “beer, wine or distilled spirits.”

“Powder ” means any solid mixture, containing one or more Caloric Sweeteners as an ingredient, intended to be used
in making, mixing, or compounding a Sugar-Sweetened Beverage by combining the Powder with one or more other
ingredients.

“Sugar-Sweetened Beverage ” means any Nonalcoholic Beverage intended for human consumption that contains
added Caloric Sweetener and contains more than 25 calories per 12 fluid ounces of beverage, including but not limited to
all drinks and beverages commonly referred to as “soda,” “pop,” “cola.” “soft drinks,” “sports drinks ,” “energy
drinks ,” “sweetened ice teas ,” or any other similar names. “Sugar-Sweetened Beverage” does not include:

(a)	Any beverage sold for consumption by infants, which is commonly referred to as “infant formula” or “baby
formula ,” or any product whose purpose is infant rehydration.

(b)	Any Beverage for Medical Use.

(c)	Any beverage designed as supplemental, meal replacement, or sole-source nutrition that includes proteins,
carbohydrates, and multiple vitamins and minerals (this exclusion does not include beverages commonly referred to as
“sports drinks ,” or any other similar names, which are defined as Sugar-Sweetened Beverages).

(d)	Any Milk Product.

(e)	Any beverage that contains solely 100% Natural Fruit Juice, Natural Vegetable Juice, or combined Natural
Fruit Juice and Natural Vegetable Juice.

“Sugary Drinks Distributor Tax” or “Tax” means the general excise tax imposed under Section 553.

“Syrup” means any liquid mixture, containing one or more Caloric Sweeteners as an ingredient, intended to be used,
or actually used, in making, mixing, or compounding a Sugar-Sweetened Beverage by combining the Syrup with one or
more other ingredients.

SEC. 553. IMPOSITION OF TAX: DEPOSIT OF PROCEEDS.

(a)	Effective January 1, 2018, for the privilege of engaging in the business of making an initial Distribution within the
City of a Bottled Sugar-Sweetened Beverage. Syrup, or Powder, the City imposes a Sugary Drinks Distributor Tax, which
shall be a general excise tax, on the Distributor making the initial Distribution of a Bottled Sugar-Sweetened Beverage,
Syrup, or Powder in the City.

(b)	The Tax shall be calculated as follows:

(1)	One cent ($0.01) per fluid ounce of a Bottled Sugar-Sweetened Beverage upon the initial Distribution within
the City of the Bottled Sugar-Sweetened Beverage: and

(2)	One cent ($0.01) per fluid ounce of a Sugar-Sweetened Beverage that could be produced from Syrup or
Powder upon the initial Distribution of Syrup or Powder. The Tax for Syrups and Powders shall be calculated using the
largest volume of Sugar-Sweetened Beverage that would typically be produced by the amount of Syrup or Powder based
on the manufacturer’s instructions or, if the Distributor uses the Syrup or Powder to produce a Sugar-Sweetened
Beverage, the regular practice of the Distributor.

(c)	The Tax is a general tax. Proceeds of the Tax are to be deposited in the General Fund.

SEC. 554. REGISTRATION OF DISTRIBUTORS: DOCUMENTATION: ADMINISTRATION.

(a)	Each Distributor shall register with the Tax Collector according to rules and regulations of the Tax Collector, but
no earlier than 30 days after the effective date of Article 8.

(b)	Each Distributor shall keep and preserve all such records as the Tax Collector may require for the purpose of
ascertaining compliance with Article 8.

(c)	Except as otherwise provided under Article 8, the Tax shall be administered pursuant to Article 6 of the Business
and Tax Regulations Code.

SEC. 555. CREDITS AND REFUNDS.

The Tax Collector shall refund or credit to a Distributor the Tax that is paid with respect to the initial Distribution of
a Bottled Sugar-Sweetened Beverage, Syrup, or Powder: (a) that is shipped to a point outside the City for Distribution
outside the City; or (b) on which the Tax has already been paid by another Person: or (c) that has been returned to the
Person who Distributed it and for which the entire purchase price has been refunded in cash or credit.

SEC. 556. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO THE TAX COLLECTOR.

(a) The Department of Public Health shall provide to the Tax Collector technical assistance to identify Bottled Sugar -
Sweetened Beverages, Syrups, and Powders subject to the Tax.

(b) All City Departments shall provide technical assistance to the Tax Collector to identify Distributors of Bottled
Sugar-Sweetened Beverages, Syrups, and Powders.

SEC. 557. MUNICIPAL AFFAIR.

The People of the City and County of San Francisco hereby declare that the taxation of the distribution of Sugar-
Sweetened Beverages, Syrups and Powders, and that the public health impact of Sugar-Sweetened Beverages, separately
and together constitute municipal affairs. The People of the City and County of San Francisco hereby further declare their
desire for this measure to coexist with any similar tax adopted at the local or state levels.

SEC. 558. NOT A SALES AND USE TAX.

The tax imposed by this measure is a general excise tax on the privilege of conducting business within the City and
County of San Francisco. It is not a sales tax or use tax or other excise tax on the sale, consumption, or use of sugar-
sweetened beverages.

SEC. 559. SEVERABILITY.

If any provision of this measure, or part thereof. or the applicability of any provision or part to any person or
circumstances, is for any reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional, the remaining provisions and parts shall not be
affected, but shall remain in full force and effect. and to this end the provisions and parts of this measure are severable.
The voters hereby declare that this measure, and each portion and part, would have been adopted irrespective of whether
any one or more provisions or parts are found to be invalid or unconstitutional.

SEC. 560. AMENDMENT.

The Board of Supervisors may by ordinance amend or repeal Article 8 of the Business and Tax Regulations Code
without a vote of the people except as limited by Article XIIIC of the California Constitution.

Section 2. The Administrative Code is hereby amended by adding Article XXXIII, consisting of Sections 5.33-1
through 5.33-6, to Chapter 5, to read as follows:

ARTICLE XXXIII:

SUGARY DRINKS DISTRIBUTOR TAX ADVISORY COMMITTEE
SEC. 5.33-1. CREATION OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE.

There is hereby established the Sugary Drinks Distributor Tax Advisory Committee (the “Advisory Committee ”) of
the City and County of San Francisco.

SEC. 5.33-2. MEMBERSHIP.

The Advisory Committee shall consist of the following 16 voting members.

(a)	Seats 1,2, and 3 shall be held by representatives of nonprofit organizations that advocate for health equity in
communities that are disproportionately impacted by diseases related to the consumption of Sugar-Sweetened Beverages,
as defined in Business and Tax Regulations Code Section 552, appointed by the Board of Supervisors.

(b)	Seats 4 and 5 shall be held by individuals who are employed at medical institutions in San Francisco and who
have experience in the diagnosis or treatment of, or in research or education about, chronic and other diseases linked to
the consumption of Sugar-Sweetened Beverages, appointed by the Board of Supervisors.

(c)	Seat 6 shall be held by a person who is under 19 years old at the time of appointment and who may be a member
of the Youth Commission, nominated by the Youth Commission and appointed by the Board of Supervisors. If the person is
under legal voting age and unable to be an elector for that reason, the person may hold this seat, but upon reaching legal
voting age, the person shall relinquish the seat unless he or she becomes an elector, in which case the person shall retain
the seat.

(d)	Seat 7 shall be held by a person appointed by the Director of the Office of Economic and Workforce Development
or any successor office.

(e)	Seats 8 and 9 shall be held by persons appointed by the Board of Education of the San Francisco Unified School
District. If at any time the Board of Education declines to appoint a member to Seat 8 or 9 and leaves the seat vacant for
60 days or longer, the Board of Supervisors may appoint a member of the public to fill the seat until such time as the
Board of Education appoints a member.

(f)	Seat 10 shall be held by an employee of the Department of Public Health who has experience or expertise in the
field of chronic disease prevention or treatment, appointed by the Director of Health.

(g)	Seat 11 shall be held by a person with experience or expertise in the field of oral health, appointed by the
Director of Health.

(h)	Seat 12 shall be held by a person with experience or expertise in the field of food security or access, appointed by
the Director of Health.

(i)	Seat 13 shall be held by an employee of the Department of Children. Youth & Their Families, appointed by the
Director of that Department.

(i) Seat 14 shall be held by an employee of the Recreation and Park Department, appointed by the General Manager
of that Department.

(k) Seat 15 shall be held by a parent or guardian of a student enrolled in the San Francisco Unified School District at
the time of appointment, nominated by the San Francisco Unified School District’s Parent Advisory Council, and
appointed by the Board of Supervisors. If at any time the Parent Advisory Council declines to nominate a member to a

vacant seat for 60 days or longer. the Board o f Supervisors may appoint a member of the public to fill the seat until the
seat becomes vacant again.

(I) Seat 16 shall be held by a person with experience or expertise in services and programs for children five and
under. appointed by the Board of Supervisors.

SEC. 5.33-3. ORGANIZATION AND TERMS OF OFFICE.

(a)	Members of the Advisory Committee shall serve at the pleasure of their respective appointing authorities. and
may be removed by the appointing authority at any time.

(b)	Appointing authorities shall make initial appointments to the Advisory Committee by no later than September 1.

2017.	The initial term for each seat on the Advisory Committee shall begin September 1. 2017 and end December 31,

2018.	Thereafter, the term for each seat shall be two years. There shall be no limit on the number of terms a member may
serve. A seat that is vacant on the Advisory Committee shall be filled by the appointing authority for that seat.

(c)	Members of the Advisory Committee shall receive no compensation from the City, except that the members in
Seats 4. 5, 7.10,11.12.13. and 14 who are City employees may receive their respective City salaries for time spent
working on the Advisory Committee.

(d)	Any member who misses three regular meetings of the Advisory Committee within any 12-month period without
the express approval of the Advisory Committee at or before each missed meeting shall be deemed to have resigned from
the Advisory Committee 10 days after the third unapproved absence. The Advisory Committee shall inform the appointing
authority of any such resignation.

(e)	The City Administrator shall provide administrative and clerical support for the Advisory Committee, and the
Controller’s Office shall provide technical support and policy analysis for the Advisory Committee upon request. All City
o fficials and agencies shall cooperate with the Advisory Committee in the performance of its functions.

SEC. 5.33-4. POWERS AND DUTIES.

The general purpose of the Advisory Committee is to make recommendations to the Mayor and the Board of
Supervisors on the effectiveness of the Sugary Drinks Distributor Tax in Business Tax and Regulations Code Article 8.
Starting in 2018, by March 1 of each year, the Advisory Committee shall submit to the Board of Supervisors and the
Mayor a report that (a) evaluates the impact of the Sugary Drinks Distributor Tax on beverage prices, consumer
purchasing behavior, and public health, and (b) makes recommendations regarding the potential establishment and!or
funding of programs to reduce the consumption of Sugar-Sweetened Beverages in San Francisco. Within 10 days after the
submission of the report, the City Administrator shall submit to the Board of Supervisors a proposed resolution for the
Board to receive the report.

SEC. 5.33-5. MEETINGS AND PROCEDURES.

(a)	There shall be at least 10 days’ notice of the Advisory Committee’s inaugural meeting. Following the inaugural
meeting, the Advisory Committee shall hold a regular meeting not less than four times each year.

(b)	The Advisory Committee shall elect officers and may establish bylaws and rules for its organization and
procedures.

SEC. 5.33-6. SUNSET.

Unless the Board o f Supervisors by ordinance extends the term of the Advisory Committee, this Article XXXIII shall
expire by operation o f law, and the Advisory Committee shall terminate, on December 31. 2028. In that event, after that
date, the City Attorney shall cause this Article XXXIII to be removed from the Administrative Code.

Section 3. Effective Date. The effective date of this ordinance is 10 days after the date the official vote count is
declared by the Board of Supervisors.

Section 4. Conflicting Measures. This ordinance is intended to be comprehensive. It is the intent of the people of the
City and County of San Francisco that in the event that this measure and one or more other measures regarding the
taxation of Sugar-Sweetened Beverages shall appear on the same ballot, the provisions of the other measure or measures
shall be deemed to be in conflict with this measure. In the event that this measure receives a greater number of affirmative
votes, the provisions of this measure shall prevail in their entirety, and all provisions of the other measure or measures
shall be null and void. If this measure is approved by a majority of the voters but does not receive a greater number of
affirmative votes than any other measure appearing on the same ballot regarding taxation of Sugar-Sweetened Beverages,
this measure shall take effect to the extent not in conflict with said other measure or measures.

Section 5. Appropriations Limit Increase. Pursuant to California Constitution Article XIII B and applicable laws, for
four years from November 8, 2016, the appropriations limit for the City shall be increased by the aggregate sum collected
by the levy of the Sugary Drinks Distributor Tax (Business and Tax Regulations Code, Article 8) imposed by this
ordinance.

http://voterguide.sfelections.org/en/tax-distributing-sugar-sweetened-beverages