Cloverdale, California, Marijuana
Business Tax, Measure P (November

2016)

| Text of measure

Ballot question

The following question appeared on the ballot:^

// To fund essential City services such as police, streets, parks, libraries,
senior and youth programs, shall an ordinance be adopted imposing a tax
on all permitted cannabis businesses in Cloverdale, at a rate of up to 10%
on gross receipts, to raise estimated revenues of $90,000 per business, with
no sunset date, subject to audits, with funds staying in Cloverdale, allowing
for the tax rate to vary by business activity type?^

Impartial analysis

The following impartial analysis of the measure was prepared by the office of the

Cloverdale City Attorney:

// The City Council of the City of Cloverdale placed Measure P on the ballot asking
voters to consider a Cannabis (marijuana) Business Tax of up to ten percent (10%)
on gross receipts on all cannabis businesses. The tax is a gross receipts tax on
cannabis businesses and is not a sales tax imposed on individuals purchasing
cannabis.

Currently, cannabis businesses are not permitted in Cloverdale, except for limited
delivery services delivering from outside of the City. However, cannabis businesses
could be allowed in the City if the City Council approves changes to the City’s
Municipal Code, if voters pass an initiative to allow cannabis businesses in the City,
or if the state Legislature takes action requiring the City to permit cannabis
businesses.

If cannabis businesses are permitted in the City, Measure P allows the City Council
to set a maximum tax rate, by resolution, on all cannabis businesses of up to ten
percent (10%) on gross receipts. For example, a cannabis business with gross
receipts totaling $100,000 would pay up to $10,000 in taxes. The Cannabis
Business Tax revenues would be collected by the City monthly.

Measure P allows the City Council to set different tax rates for different types of
cannabis businesses, so long as the tax rate does not exceed ten percent (10%) of a

business’ gross receipts. For example, a cannabis testing business could be taxed at
a different rate than a dispensary.

The Cannabis Business Tax would apply to any business activity involving the
distribution, dispensing, exchanging, bartering or sale of either medical or non-
medical cannabis, including cultivation, planting, harvesting, transporting,
manufacturing, processing, labeling, packaging, testing and/or retail sales of
cannabis, cannabis products, whether or not done for profit. The Cannabis Business
Tax would not apply to the cultivation of cannabis for personal use allowed under
the City’s Municipal Code, so long as such cannabis is not sold, bartered, or
exchanged for anything of value in return.

Because Measure P does not limit the use of Cannabis Business Tax revenue, it is a
“general tax,” not a “special tax” restricting the funds to specific purposes. The City
could use the funds for any legitimate governmental purpose. The tax would
continue until repealed by the voters or the City Council.

A “yes” vote on Measure P would approve the Cannabis Business Tax and
authorize the City Council to establish a tax rate of up to ten percent (10%) on gross
receipts on cannabis businesses if they are allowed to operate in the City in the
future. A “no” vote would reject the Cannabis Business Tax. Measure P would be
approved if it received a simple majority of “Yes” votes.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure P. If you desire a copy of
the ordinance or measure, please call the City Clerk’s office at (707) 894-2521 or
lmoore@ci.cloverdale.ca.us and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you.[2]

—Cloverdale City Attorney™