Ballot question

The following question appeared on the ballot:[i]

Shall the ordinance imposing a tax on commercial cannabis businesses
for medical and nonmedical marijuana where permissible by state and
local law be adopted with the tax on cultivation activities not to exceed
$25.00 per square foot and adjusted annually by a CPI and the tax rate on
dispensaries, manufacturing, and delivery not to exceed 10% of annual
gross receipts, potentially generating $1-$2 million dollars annually to help
fund City services with no termination date?[2]

Impartial analysis

The following impartial analysis of the measure was prepared by the office of the
Salinas City Attorney:

Background

On January 26, 2016, the Salinas City Council adopted an ordinance to
permit a limited number of commercial cannabis businesses to open and
operate within the city. Up to twelve (12) cannabis-related businesses,
one in each of four separate categories: dispensaries, manufacturing
facilities, cultivation facilities, and delivery services. To ensure each
business pays an appropriate business tax, Chapter 19A is proposed to
be added to the Salinas Municipal Code to establish the appropriate
business categories and thus impose business tax liability on all
commercial cannabis businesses which open and operate in the city. All
businesses which operate in Salinas are required to obtain a business
license and pay the appropriate business tax. This proposed measure is
intended to ensure that commercial cannabis businesses are treated the
same as all other businesses operating in Salinas with respect to the
obligation to obtain a business license and to pay a business tax.

The Proposed Business Tax

The measure before the voters proposes to add Chapter 19A to the
Salinas Municipal Code to establish the categories and the rates for
commercial cannabis businesses, including medical cannabis cultivation,
medical cannabis manufacturing, medical cannabis dispensaries, medical
cannabis delivery services, and non-medical cannabis (recreational)
businesses. If approved by the voters, all revenues generated from the
measure would go the City’s General Fund to be expended for general
public services, including public safety and recreational programs.

For cultivation businesses, whether for-profit or not-for-profit, the measure
proposes an initial tax rate of $15.00 per square foot of canopy area. After
the third year, the tax rate would automatically increase to $25.00 per
square foot of canopy area and would be automatically adjusted based on
the Consumer Price Index (CPI).

55

For dispensary, manufacturing, and delivery service cannabis-related
businesses, the measure proposes an initial tax rate of 5% of the
businesses’ gross revenues. After the third year, the tax rate would
automatically increase to 10% of the businesses’ gross revenues.

A “YES” vote would be a vote in favor of imposing a business tax on
commercial cannabis businesses. A “NO” vote would be a vote against
imposing a business tax on commercial cannabis businesses.

The cannabis business tax measure was placed on the ballot by the
Salinas City Council.

Additional Information on City Attorney Website

The ordinance establishing commercial cannabis businesses, as well the
text of the proposed measure and the City Council’s Resolution placing
the measure on the ballot, are available on the City Attorney’s website:
www.ci.salinas.ca.us/services/cityattorney/cityattorney.cfm

[2]

■Salinas City Attorney^]