FILED

AUG 19 2016

COUNTY COUNSEL
IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS
BALLOT MEASURE I: CANNABIS BUSINESS TAX

INYO CO. CLERK
KAMMl FOOTE, CLERK



DEPUTY

The Inyo County Board of Supervisors placed Measure I on the ballot. The measure proposes voter-
approval of an Inyo County ordinance (Ordinance No. 1202) imposing a tax on commercial cannabis
(marijuana) businesses in the unincorporated areas of the County - the areas outside of the City of
Bishop. Cannabis businesses are not currently permitted in such areas of the County and approval of
Measure I would not permit them; rather, approval of Measure I would only impose a tax on any such
businesses that may exist in the future. The tax would not apply to non-commercial cultivation of
cannabis for "personal use" as defined by applicable laws.

If approved by the voters, Ordinance 1202 would impose an initial tax equal to five percent (5%) of a
cannabis businesses' gross receipts per fiscal year, effective January 1, 2017, with cultivation businesses
paying not less than the following amounts:

•	businesses cultivating twenty-five hundred (2,500) or fewer square feet of cannabis would pay
not less than twelve hundred and fifty dollars ($1,250) per "growing cycle" (defined generally as
the life of a cannabis plant until harvest)

•	businesses cultivating more than 2,500 square feet and up to five thousand (5,000) square feet
of cannabis would pay not less than twenty-five hundred dollars ($2,500) per growing cycle

•	businesses cultivating more than 5,000 square feet of cannabis would pay not less than five
thousand dollars ($5,000) per growing cycle.

Beginning July 1, 2020, the ordinance also provides that the 5% initial tax rate on gross receipts may be
increased in two and one half percent (2.5%) increments per fiscal year, not to exceed a maximum tax
rate of twelve and one half percent (12.5%). Such increases in the tax rate are not automatic; they can
only be implemented if approved by the Board of Supervisors at a regular meeting.

The ordinance further provides the Board with authority to amend or modify the ordinance, including
but not limited to reducing the tax rate or creating additional exemptions from the tax. Such
modifications could be made applicable to any or all types of commercial cannabis businesses.

The tax would apply to any cannabis businesses operating within the County, including a business
operating illegally (i.e., illegal businesses could not avoid taxation). The ordinance contains payment
and reporting requirements and enforcement provisions and authorizes the County Treasurer-Tax
Collector to administer the tax. The tax is for general governmental purposes (a "general tax") and tax
revenues would be placed in the County's General Fund and used for general County purposes at the

discretion of the Inyo County Board of Supervisors. The tax will go into effect only if Measure I is
approved by a simple majority of the voters voting on the measure at the election.

A "YES" vote on Measure I is a vote in favor of approving Ordinance 1202 and imposing a tax on
commercial cannabis (marijuana) businesses in the unincorporated areas of Inyo County,

A "NO" vote on Measure I is a vote against approving Ordinance 1202 and against imposing a tax on
commercial cannabis (marijuana) businesses in the unincorporated areas of Inyo County.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure I (and Ordinance 1202). If you desire a copy of
Measure I (and Ordinance 1202), please call the elections official's office at (760) 878-0222 and a copy
will be mailed at no cost to you. You may also access the full text of the measure (and ordinance) on the
county Web site at the following Web site address: http://elections.inyocounty.us/p/what-on-
ballot.html.