SAN FRANCISCO BAY
RESTORATION AUTHORITY

MEASURE AA

MEASURE AA: San Francisco Bay Clean Water, Pollution Prevention and Habitat Restoration Program.
To protect San Francisco Bay for future generations by reducing trash, pollution and harmful toxins,
improving water quality, restoring habitat for fish, birds and wildlife, protecting communities from
floods, and increasing shoreline public access, shall the San Francisco Bay Restoration Authority
authorize a parcel tax of $12 per year, raising approximately $25 million annually for twenty years
with independent citizen oversight, audits, and all funds staying local?

YES	NO

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE

AA

The San Francisco Bay Restoration Authority was created by the State of California to fund projects to
protect and restore the San Francisco Bay. The Authority does not receive any dedicated local, state or
federal funding to underwrite such shoreline projects.

The Authority has placed on the ballot Measure AA, which if approved by two-thirds of the voters
voting on the Measure, would assess a special parcel tax of $12 per year on each parcel of taxable real
property wholly or partially within its jurisdiction, the San Francisco Bay Area comprising the Counties
of Alameda, Contra Costa, Marin, Napa, San Mateo, Santa Clara, Solano and Sonoma and the City and
County of San Francisco. The parcel tax would be assessed for a period of 20 years, from July 1, 2017,
through June 30, 2037. According to the Measure, the parcel tax would raise approximately $25
million annually.

According to the Measure, proceeds would be used to fund shoreline projects to protect and restore
San Francisco Bay for future generations by (1) reducing trash, pollution and harmful toxins; (2)
improving water quality; (3) improving habitat for fish, birds and wildlife; (4) protecting communities
from floods; and (5) increasing shoreline access for public enjoyment.

Projects would be prioritized based on criteria set forth in the Measure, including but not limited to,
their positive impact on the San Francisco Bay as a whole, in terms of clean water, wildlife habitat,
beneficial use to the residents, and ensuring projects are funded in each of the San Francisco Bay
Area's nine counties. The Measure ensures allocation of 50% of the funds to the North Bay, East Bay,

South Bay, and West Bay proportional to their populations, with the remaining 50% allocated to
projects within the jurisdiction without regard to location.

Proceeds from the parcel tax would be used solely for the programs set forth in the Measure, would be
deposited in a separate account, would be spent exclusively for projects in the nine counties
comprising the Authority, and could not be taken by the State, with total administrative expenditures
limited to no more than 5% of the Measure's proceeds.

An independent, annual audit would be conducted of all proceeds and expenditures, and an annual
report would be published detailing the amounts deposited and expended and the status of projects
funded under the Measure.

These annual audits and reports would be submitted to an Independent Citizens Oversight Committee
for review, with the committee's findings posted on the Authority's website.

The parcel tax would appear as a separate item on residents' property tax bills and would be collected
by tax collectors at the same time as and in the same manner as other property taxes.

A "yes" vote is a vote to approve a parcel tax of $12 per parcel on taxable parcels within the San
Francisco Bay Area for a period of 20 years to fund San Francisco Bay restoration projects.

A "no" vote is a vote not to approve a parcel tax of $12 per parcel on taxable parcels within the San
Francisco Bay Area for a period of 20 years to fund San Francisco Bay restoration projects.

By:

s/Kenneth K. Moy

Counsel to the San Francisco Bay Restoration Authority

Reviewed and revised by Orry R Korb, County Counsel for the County of Santa Clara

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE

AA

Join Senator Dianne Feinstein and environmental, business and community leaders from
across Marin County in voting YES on Measure AA for a clean and healthy San Francisco
Bay.

This measure is critical to restoring wetlands and protecting wildlife habitat for future generations
throughout the Bay Area.

San Francisco Bay is a part of all of our lives - whether we live along the Bay; work there; walk, jog,
or visit parks along its shores; or simply appreciate it as we drive over a bridge. The Bay also attracts
tourists, supports commercial fishing and attracts quality employers to the region - all of which help
keep our economy strong.

But pollution and other problems have put the health of the Bay at serious risk. Fish in the Bay are
contaminated with harmful chemicals like PCBs, mercury and pesticides.

Measure AA will restore wetlands throughout the Bay Area, which provide habitat for fish and wildlife
and filter out pollutants from water to reduce toxins that threaten the ecosystem. Wetlands also act as
a natural barrier against flooding and provide urban recreational open space, a resource we all
cherish.

Voting YES on AA will:

•	Reduce trash, pollution and harmful toxins in the Bay

•	Improve water quality

•	Restore habitat for fish, birds and wildlife

•	Protect communities from floods

•	Increase shoreline public access

Measure AA includes important fiscal accountability protections:

•	All funds must stay in the Bay Area to be used only on local habitat restoration and wildlife
protection projects

•	An independent citizens' oversight committee will oversee funds to ensure they are spent
properly

•	Independent audits and annual public reports ensure transparency

Passing this critical measure will ensure that our children and grandchildren inherit a clean and healthy
San Francisco Bay. Join us—vote YES on AA to protect San Francisco Bay, our greatest natural
treasure.

www.yesonaaforthebay.com [External]
s/JARED HUFFMAN

Congressmember 2nd Congressional District, Marin County
s/STEVE KINSEY

County Supervisor, District 4 Marin
s/KATE POWERS

President Marin Conservation League
s/J DIETRICH STROEH
Civil Engineer, Business Owner
S/KATHLEEN FOOTE
Former Mayor, Mill Valley

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN
FAVOR OF MEASURE AA

Marin homeowners do not need a new $500 million parcel tax measure to protect our adjacent San
Francisco Bay.

Proponents—largely career politicians—try to appeal to our commitment to our environment, and to
reassure us with the promise of necessary fiscal accountability.

This is a lot of money being grabbed for a new regional government entity - one without Marin
representatives. Its unelected Board can select expenditure projects without being responsible to
taxpayers.

Regional government control has not been good for Marin. Think of ABAG with its affordable housing
mandates. Think of Win-Cup and its traffic-congestion-adding impacts.

This new regional entity will not provide parcel-proportional benefits for Marin's citizens. This is
taxation without representation.

Measure AA will likely create another bloated bureaucracy with focus on more populous counties of the
southern and eastern Bay.

The existing Bay Conservation and Development Commission is overseen by a 27-member body (plus
alternates) and a staff of approximately 50. Would there be overlap with BCDC? Is BCDC the new
template for staffing? What are the costs for this new bureaucracy?

Does this measure really advance Marin's Bay-interfacing conservation efforts? Marin is not heavily
industrialized or high-rise-prone versus other Bay Area counties, so we are apt to be a low priority for
project funding.

Marin can and does meet the objectives sought by the Measure on its own. We need not support
another regional bureaucracy.

Vote NO on Measure AA
s/PAUL PREMO

Core Group Member, Citizens for Sustainable Pension Plans

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE AA

Parcel taxes are regressive. The least-improved parcel's owner pays the same amount as the
most-improved parcel's owner. Parcel taxes commonly hit local properties, such as in school districts,
where the parcels are reasonably homogeneous, and the benefits generally accrue locally. But this
Measure seeks to impose the same tax amount on a residential property owner in Marin as on owners
of high-rise parcels in San Francisco, Facebook in Menlo Park and Google in Mountain View.

The moneys raised, $500 Million, are to be managed and disbursed by a 7-member non-elected
Governing Board of the San Francisco Bay Restoration Authority who are appointed by ABAG. Marin
has no representative on the Board. Those who spend the money should be elected officials
responsible to those who pay. Marin pays but has no say. Marin incurs "taxation without
representation".

The proponents intend to disburse half of the money to projects in each of the 9 Counties proportional
to population. Marin's 100,000 parcels represent about 5% of the total, but Marin's population is only
about 3.5% of the 9-County total. We pay nearly 50% more by parcel than we receive back by
population. Marin is thus subsidizing other counties that have higher population per parcel.

Marin plays a leadership role in environmental awareness and stewardship to maintain our unique
environment. That's part of why we live here. Marin is blessed with vital and effective non-profit
organizations that harness volunteers and world-class experts to protect, preserve and enhance
Marin's "footprint" on its lands, its adjacent waters, and its interface with those waters. We do not
need a "new" ABAG bureaucracy with its attendant inefficiencies to do what we can do and are doing
to preserve the Bay that we interface. And to divert our taxes to other locales.

Vote "No" on Measure AA.
s/PAUL PREMO

Core Group Member, Citizens for Sustainable Pension Plans

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST

MEASURE AA

As Marin County business, environmental and community leaders, we've researched the facts, and
that's why we are voting YES on Measure AA.

Measure AA reduces trash and pollution; protects habitat for fish, birds, and wildlife; and increases
public access for shoreline recreation. The $1 per month that Measure AA levies on all Bay Area
parcels represents a baseline funding commitment, the minimum we all can do to ensure the shared
benefits of a clean and healthy bay are preserved for our children and grandchildren.

Measure AA's detailed, equitable allocation formula ensures Marin County will benefit. We will see our
fair share of funding, as numerous local projects will be eligible to seek support, including Bothin
Marsh, Richardson Bay, Lower Gallinas Creek, Novato Creek Baylands, and others.

The Bay's unique regional challenges demand a unique regional solution. Measure AA doesn't create a
new bureaucracy, but instead disperses funds through existing public agencies and nonprofit
organizations to complete essential wetlands restoration projects. Measure AA simply generates and
distributes the revenue we badly need to protect the Bay.

Measure AA includes strict fiscal accountability protections to ensure our tax dollars are going directly
to Bay Area wetlands restoration and cannot be taken by the state. An Independent Citizens Oversight
Committee and annual public reports will ensure transparency.

Join us in voting YES on Measure AA to protect the central touchstone of our region - the San
Francisco Bay.
s/MICHAEL GALLAGHER

c.	Provide for geographic distribution across the region and ensure that there are
projects funded in each of the nine counties in the San Francisco Bay Area over the life
of the Measure.

d.	Increase impact value by leveraging state and federal resources and public/private
partnerships.

e.	Benefit economically disadvantaged communities.

f.	Benefit the region's economy, including local workforce development, employment
opportunities for Bay Area residents, and nature-based flood protection for critical
infrastructure and existing shoreline communities.

g.	Work with local organizations and businesses to engage youth and young adults and
assist them in gaining skills related to natural resource protection.

h.	Incorporate monitoring, maintenance and stewardship to develop the most efficient
and effective strategies for restoration and achievement of intended benefits.

i.	Meet the selection criteria of the Coastal Conservancy's San Francisco Bay Area
Conservancy Program and are consistent with the San Francisco Bay Conservation and
Development Commission's coastal management program and with the San Francisco
Bay Joint Venture's implementation strategy.

2.	The Authority shall ensure that 50% of the total net revenue generated during the 20-year

term of the Special Tax is allocated to the four Bay Area regions, defined as the North Bay
(Sonoma, Marin, Napa and Solano Counties), East Bay (Alameda and Contra Costa Counties),
West Bay (City and County of San Francisco and San Mateo County) and South Bay (Santa
Clara County) in proportion to each region's share of the Bay Area's population, as determined
in the 2010 census, and consistent with the priorities set forth in this section. As a result, each
region will receive the following minimum percentage of total net revenue generated during
the 20-year term of the Special Tax: North Bay: 9%, East Bay: 18%, West Bay: 11%, South
Bay: 12%. The remaining revenue shall be allocated consistent with all other provisions of
this Measure.

3.	The Authority shall conduct one or more public meetings annually to gain public input on
selection of projects under this Measure. All actions, including decisions about selecting
projects for funding, will be made by the Authority in public meetings with advance notice and
with meeting materials made available in advance to the public.

4.	The Authority may accumulate revenue over multiple years so that sufficient funding is
available for larger and long-term projects. All interest income shall be used solely to support
programs and priorities set forth in this Measure.

5.	No Special Tax proceeds shall be used for campaign advocacy.

6.	No more than 5% of the Special Tax proceeds generated in any given fiscal year may be used
by the Authority for general government purposes in such fiscal year, including to administer
the projects funded under this Measure. Any unused funds may be carried over for use in
subsequent fiscal years.

7.	The Authority shall have the right, power and authority to pledge Special Tax proceeds to the
payment of bonds of the Authority or another public agency (including, but not limited to, a
joint powers authority created pursuant to Article 1 of the Joint Exercise of Powers Act

(Government Code Section 6500 et seq.), and use Special Tax proceeds to pay debt service on
such bonds and the costs of issuance related thereto.

C. Accountability and Oversight

In order to ensure accountability, transparency and public oversight of funds collected and allocated
under this Measure and comply with State law, all of the following shall apply:

1.	The specific purpose of the Special Tax shall be to support only programs and priorities and
other purposes listed in this Measure. The Special Tax proceeds shall be applied only for
specific purposes of this Measure and shall be spent only in accordance with the procedures
and limitations set forth in this Measure.

2.	A separate account shall be created by the Authority into which all Special Tax proceeds must
be deposited. The Authority shall commission an independent annual audit of all revenues
deposited in, and all expenditures made from, the separate account and publish annual
financial statements.

3. All Special Tax revenue, except as set forth in Section 3.B.6 above, shall be spent on projects
for the benefit of the San Francisco Bay Area, and shall not be taken by the State.

4.	The Authority shall prepare annual written reports showing (i) the amount of funds collected
and expended from Special Tax proceeds and (ii) the status of any projects or programs
required or authorized to be funded from the proceeds of the Special Tax, as identified above.
The report shall comply with Government Code section 50075.3, be posted on the Authority's
website, and be submitted to the Bay Restoration Advisory Committee, established pursuant
to Government Code section 66703.7 (the "Advisory Committee"), for review and comment.

5.	The Advisory Committee shall provide advice to the Authority on all aspects of its activities
under this Measure to ensure maximum benefit, value, and transparency. Advisory Committee
meetings will be announced in advance and will be open to the public. The responsibilities of
the Advisory Committee shall include, but shall not be limited to: (a) advising the Authority
about implementation of this Measure; and (b) making recommendations regarding
expenditure priorities under this Measure.

6.	The Authority shall appoint six members of the public to an Independent Citizens Oversight
Committee that shall: (a) annually review the Authority's conformance with the Measure; (b)
review the Authority's audits and expenditure and financial reports; and (c) publish an annual
report of its findings, which shall be posted on the Authority's website. The six members shall
include residents of the North Bay, East Bay, West Bay, and South Bay, as defined in
Government Code 66703(a), who are experts in water quality, pollution reduction, habitat
restoration, flood protection, improvement of public access to the Bay, or financing of these
objectives. No person may serve on the Independent Citizens Oversight Committee who (a) is
an elected official or government employee, or (b) has had or could have a financial interest in

decisions of the Authority as defined by Government Code section 87103 and the Fair Political
Practices Commission.

Section 4. Establishment of Appropriation Limit.

Pursuant to Article XIII-B of the California Constitution and section 66704.05(b)(2) of the
Government Code, the appropriation limit of the Authority shall be set by the total revenues actually
received by the Authority from the proceeds of the Special Tax levied in fiscal year 2017-18, as
adjusted each fiscal year thereafter for the estimated change in the cost of living, population and
number of parcels on which the Special Tax is levied (such estimate to be determined by the
Governing Body of the Authority and be conclusive for all purposes after made). The appropriation
limit may be further adjusted by any other changes that may be permitted or required by Article
XIII-B of the California Constitution.

Section 5. Amendments and Severability.

A.	The Governing Board of the Authority shall be empowered to amend this Measure by majority
vote of its members to further the purposes of this Measure, to conform the provisions of this
Measure to applicable State law, to modify the methods of levy and collection of the Special
Tax, or to assign the duties of public officials under this Measure.

B.	If any part of this Measure is held to be invalid for any reason, such decision shall not affect
the remaining portions of this Measure and the voters declare that they would have passed the
remainder of this Measure as if such invalid portion were not included.