San Buenaventura, California, Sales
Tax, Measure 0 (November 2016)

Ballot question

The following question appeared on the ballot:131

U CITY CLEAN WATER/ BEACHES/ STREET REPAIRS/ SAFETY MEASURE
- To help protect local water supplies, rivers, beaches from pollution;
maintain City services, including: fire, paramedic, police emergency
response; keep all fire stations open; repair streets; earthquake retrofit
bridges; address homelessness; maintain after-school programs, services for
seniors, veterans, youth; shall the City establish a V2 cent sales tax for 25
years, providing approximately $10,800,000 annually, require independent
audits, citizens oversight, and all funds used locally?121

Impartial Analysis by City Attorney

The City's Clean Water/Beaches/Street Repairs/Safety Measure contains the following provisions:

•	General sales (transaction & use) tax for vital City services, including, but not limited to, the following as identified in Measure “0”:

o Protecting local drinking water supplies and establishing water conservation programs;
o Maintaining and improving fire, police, and paramedic response times;
o Keeping all fire stations open;

o Protecting local beaches, rivers, and coast waters from pollution;
o Keeping our neighborhood safe from gangs and drugs;
o Effectively addressing the issue of homelessness;
o Protecting and seismically repairing bridges;
o Maintaining local streets, roads, and essential City services;
o Improving services for seniors, the disabled, and veterans; and,
o Any other general fund purpose.

•	Sets the tax rate at one-half of one percent of every taxable sales dollar.

•	Becomes effective ten days after the certification by the City Council with sufficient votes for passage; the tax becomes operative April 1,
2017 for a period of 25 years.

•	Requires an independent audit of all expenditures from revenue raised by the Measure.

•	Suspends the tax, after notice to the State, should the State divert this revenue for State purposes.

•	Forms a Citizens’ Oversight Committee of five voting members who:

o	Must be registered voters of City and no elected officials or City employees are allowed to be members,

o	Meet at least quarterly to review revenues and expenditures and report findings to the City Council,

o Make budget recommendations to the City Council for expenditures of revenue raised prior to budget adoption,
o Make recommendations to the City Council after review of independent City audit,
o Are appointed to 4-year staggered terms.

•	Prior to adoption of budget, City Manager and the Director of Finance and Technology present the City Council with an accounting of
revenue and expenditures collected and made under the Measure.

•	The City Council has the authority to amend the Measure in the following areas:

o Composition of the Citizens Oversight Committee.

o To suspend or not suspend the tax if the State diverts the revenue collected under the Measure on a temporary basis and to
thereafter reactivate it.

o To remain consistent with the requirements of the State to allow for the continued collection of the tax.

•	Requires a further vote of the people before the tax rate may be increased or the term of the tax extended.

To pass, this Measure must obtain at least 50% plus one of those votes cast on the Measure as “yes” votes.

This Measure was placed on the ballot by a vote of the City Council.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure “0.” If you desire a copy of Measure “0,” please call the City Clerk’s Office at
(805) 658-4787 and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you.

‘The full text of Measure “0” can also be found on the City’s website at: citvofventura.net/election.

Respectfully submitted,

GREGORY G. DIAZ

City Attorney

N VE 104-057

Argument in Favor of Measure 0

Ventura needs Measure 0.

Ventura is 150 years old and showing its age. Measure 0 will provide critically-needed resources to ensure a better future for our City and to
address Ventura's most urgent needs.

Urgent needs like protecting our local beaches and rivers, maintaining public safety funding, addressing homelessness, and repairing our
deteriorating streets and sidewalks.

Urgent needs like protecting local drinking water supplies and upgrading storm drains to prevent pollution and trash from entering our beaches,
rivers and coastal waters.

Urgent needs like keeping all City fire stations open and fully operational to ensure fast emergency response times for every Ventura
neighborhood.

Urgent needs like maintaining after-school and summer recreational programs, as well as clean, safe parks and playgrounds, to ensure Ventura’s
children and teens are safe and supervised.

Measure 0 will help replace the state and federal funding cuts that have jeopardized the City’s ability to address its urgent needs. By law, all
Measure 0 funds must be used locally and cannot be raided by Sacramento politicians.

Vote YES on Measure 0 to protect water quality and improve local water resources, repair streets, fix potholes, and make necessary earthquake
repairs to bridges and overpasses.

Vote YES on Measure 0 to address homelessness in Ventura by creating opportunities to get homeless people off the streets and into services.
Vote YES on Measure 0 to provide resources for our growing population of seniors and veterans.

Vote YES on Measure 0 to help prevent and address the growing problem of gang and drug violence in Ventura.

Measure 0 contains STRICT FINANCIAL ACCOUNTABILITY measures, including annual independent audits, a citizens’ oversight committee to
ensure funds are spent properly, and public review of all expenditures.

Join Ventura's environmental, public safety, faith, business, and civic leaders in supporting Measure 0 to protect Ventura’s residents and our
exceptional quality of life.

Vote YES on Meausure 0.

s/Edward Wehan	s/Suz Montgomery	s/Jim Duran	s/Don McPherson

Beaches, Parks, Open Space and	Chair, Ventura	Executive Director, The City	Former City of

Water Conservation Advocate	Council for Seniors	Center For Homeless Families	Ventura Fire Chief

Rebuttal to Argument in Favor of Measure 0

Incorporated 150 years ago, half the city is 60 years old or less. City Councilman James Monahan voted “no” saying “what’s the hurry”. Serving
since 1972, Councilman Monahan experienced past City Council’s broken promises, seeing funds redirected.

In past years, Ventura City Council’s invested $2.5m WAV project; $1,0m to narrow Victoria; $1,2m for 911 tax; $9.0m Convention Center, never
built; $10.0m lost investments with Lehman and WAMU; $1,2m annually for 50% fire retirement increase; $65.m environmental settlement, $5.0m
to promote Art City Ventura and $1.2m twice sold parking spaces settlement. This is a QUESTION OF TRUST.

Ventura City Council claims everything’s “urgent”. NOT true. They want another $270,000,000 tax without prioritizing. We have a balanced budget.
They even added funds to reserves and approving 4.50% raises and $1,500 bonuses for over 270 employees making over $100,000.

s/Mark Hartley
Owner, Watermark on
Main Restaurant

N VE 104-058

Rebuttal to Argument in Favor of Measure 0 (continued)

With a $104,000,000 budget and higher water rates, funds to repair streets, water infrastructure and public safety should already have first priority.
If water, fire stations and emergencies services are not met, Ventura should demand new leadership.

Ventura City Council wants new taxes for special projects, showing little concern for Ventura families, already paying increased Health premiums,
higher taxes for Income, Payroll, Capital gains, Dividend and Estate taxes, along with over 42% water rates increases. Also on the ballot is a !4%
Transportation tax, and Ventura Unified School Board property tax.

Citizens Review Committee’s a ploy. They will have NO POWER over spending $270,000,000 over 25 years.

Budget surpluses and tax revenues are growing. Ventura City Government, like citizens, must live within their means. This FOREVER tax is
UNACCEPTABLE.

s/Robert J. Alviani	s/Robert L. McCord	s/Jack Tingstrom	s/Ron Bamieh	s/David Grau

Retired Banker	Attorney	Former	Mayor of Ventura	Attorney	Small Business	Owner

Argument Against Measure O

Attempts to increase sales taxes upon the citizens of Ventura failed in 2006 and again in 2009. Two cities, Oxnard and Port Huememe, did
increase sale taxes, but that new money did not fix their problems as promised and they continue to have budget problems. Controlled
SPENDING is the answer.

The City seeks to increase our sales tax to raise another $10.8 million per year for 25 YEARS. At the end of 25 years they promise it will “sunset.”
In truth, it is a LIFETIME of over $270,000,000 taxes for many citizens. Promises will be forgotten. Regardless of Ventura City Council promises
on how new money will be spent; there are NO RESTRICTIONS on how this money is spent. Today’s and future Ventura City Councils can and
will change spending at any time.

Is this new tax truly justified? Over the last 2 years, the City of Ventura’s property taxes have increased by 4.0% and sales tax revenues have
increased by 9.5%. The result is in 2017 general fund revenue will be $104 million, the highest in Ventura’s history. Reserves have also increased
to $12.5 million. With more funds added to reserves, more taxes are NOT NEEDED.

The Ventura City Council conducted a citizen’s poll to determine if there was support for a tax. Citizens were asked if they would support a
measure to protect local water supplies, keep all fire stations open, protect local beaches, rivers and coastal waters from pollution, maintain and
improve fire, police and paramedic emergency response, maintain essential city services and improve services for seniors, the disabled and
veterans?

This poll was misleading. Rivers, beaches and veterans are funded by federal, state and bond budgets. Your recently increased WATERRATES
of OVER 42% help fund water and wastewater issues.

There is no legitimate reason to tax ourselves more.

s/Robert J. Alviani	s/Robert L.	McCord s/Jack Tingstrom	s/Ron Bamieh	s/David Grau

Retired Banker	Attorney	Former	Mayor of Ventura	Attorney	Small Business Owner

Rebuttal to Argument Against Measure O

We live in Ventura because of its natural beauty and the best quality of life in our region.

As one of California’s oldest coastal cities, Ventura has unique and expensive challenges, like protecting our coastline and addressing aging
infrastructure. We grapple with a large homeless population and a growing number of senior citizens who depend on City services. Over the past
five years, the State has taken more than $25 million in local funds.

The need is real. Measure O asks one simple question: Do we want to protect Ventura for our future?

N VE 104-059

Rebuttal to Argument Against Measure 0 (continued)

Measure 0's half-cent sales tax increase would add only 50 cents to a $100 purchase, exempting essential items like groceries and medicine.
Every penny will be used in Ventura, under independent citizen oversight. By law, the State cannot touch Measure 0 funds.

Measure 0 will provide locally controlled funding -- paid largely by tourists -- for critically needed repairs and vital services to protect the Ventura
we know and love. The longer we wait to make these improvements, the more they will cost.

Environmentalists support Measure 0 to repair broken storm drains and protect our coastline and rivers from pollution.

Firefighters and police officers support Measure 0 to maintain swift emergency response, protecting the safety and welfare of residents.

Small businesses support Measure 0 because a safe and clean Ventura sustains economic development and vitality.

Join us in voting to preserve and maintain Ventura for our future. Vote YES on Measure 0.

s/Suzannah Underwood
Board Member, Ventura
Police Community
Foundation

s/Debbie Golden
Board Member, Ventura
Unified School District
Board of Trustees

s/Marlyss Auster
President/CEO, Ventura
Visitors & Convention
Bureau

s/Mike Coulson
Former Financial
Executive, AMGEN

s/Edward F. Wehan
Beaches, Parks, Open
Space and Water
Conservation Advocate

N VE 104-060

ORDINANCE NO. 2016-016

AN ORDINANCE OF THE PEOPLE OF THE
CITY OF SAN BUENAVENTURA,
CALIFORNIA, AMENDING DIVISION 4,

’ REVENUE AND FINANCE,” OF THE SAN
BUENAVENTURA MUNICIPAL CODE BY
ADDING CHAPTER 4.129, "SAN
BUENAVENTURA CITY CLEAN
WATER/BEACHES/ STREET REPAIRS /
SAFETY MEASURE GENERAL
TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX," TO THE
SAN BUENAVENTURA MUNICIPAL CODE

RECITALS

WHEREAS, During each of the past several years, the State of
California has reduced funding for infrastructure improvements to the City
of San Buenaventura; and,

WHEREAS, the City of San Buenaventura needs dependable and
local sources of revenue to fund and to support essential, necessary, and
appropriate general City services including such things as police, fire,
paramedic and emergency response, public transit, services for the disabled,
public safety and homeless programs, environmental and library programs;
and,

WHEREAS, The City of San Buenaventura is celebrating its 150th
Anniversary and strives to continue to be a wonderful place to live, do
business, and visit; and,

WHEREAS, Many residents live in the City of San Buenaventura
because it offers a higher level of service, programs, and quality of life than
in neighboring cities, and creating and preserving local revenue sources will
ensure that the City can maintain and improve the quality of programs and
services that residents desire and expect; and,

WHEREAS, The City of San Buenaventura’s unique geography, with
its beaches, coastline, rivers, and scenic hillsides, combined with the age of

F:\A-Users\Greg\Revenue (Tax) Measure 2016\Ordinance\Draft Initiative Ordinance.VlO.0ocx

1

its roads, sidewalks, public buildings, streetlights, and drainage systems,
make it an expensive City to maintain; and,

WHEREAS, The City has conducted a comprehensive assessment of
the long-term needs of the community and identified capital, infrastructure,
and maintenance programs, and community programs and services, that need
additional funding, which include:

•	Protecting local drinking water supplies and establishing water
conservation programs

•	Maintaining and improving fire, police, and paramedic response times

•	Keeping all fire stations open

•	Protecting local beaches, rivers, and coast waters from pollution

•	Keeping our neighborhood safe from gangs and drugs

•	Effectively addressing the issue of homelessness

•	Protecting and seismically repairing bridges

•	Maintaining local streets, roads, and essential City services

•	Improving services for seniors, the disabled, and veterans

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF SAN
BUENAVENTURA AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. AMENDMENT TO CODE. Division 4,

"Revenue and Finance," of the San Buenaventura Municipal Code is hereby
amended by the addition of Chapter 4.129, "San Buenaventura Essential
City Services Protection Measure General Transactions and Use Tax," to
read as follows:

"CHAPTER 4.129

San Buenaventura City Clean Water/ Beaches/ Street
Repairs / Safety Measure
[General Transactions and Use TaxJ

Sections:

4.129.010 Chapter Title.

4.129.020	Need for Chapter.

4.129.030 Operative Date.

4.129.040 Purpose.

F:\A-Users\Greg\Revenue (Tax) Measure 2016\Ordinance\Draft Initiative Ordinance.VlO.Docx

2

4.129.050 Contract with State.

4.129.060 Transactions Tax Rate.

4.129.070 Place of Sale.

4.129.080 Use Tax Rate.

4.129.090 Adoption of Provisions of State Law.

4.129.100 Limitations on Adoption of State Law and
Collection of Use Taxes.

4.129.110 Permit Not Required.

4.129.120 Exemptions and Exclusions.

4.129.130 Amendments.

4.129.140 Enjoining Collection Forbidden.

4.129.150 Tax Suspended if Proceeds Taken by State.
4.129.160 Citizens Oversight Committee.

4.129.170 Accounting and Report.

4.129.180 Independent Audit.

4.129.190 Authority to Amend.

4.129.200 Termination Date.

4.129.010 Chapter Title. This Chapter shall be known
as the 'San Buenaventura City Clean Water/ Beaches/
Street Repairs/ Safety Measure' (the ‘Measure’). This
Chapter shall be applicable in the incorporated territory
of the City.

4.129.020 Need for Chapter.

The People of the City of San Buenaventura declare that
this Chapter, pursuant to the Measure, is adopted as a
general tax to ensure adequate funding for essential City
services which are funded by the City’s General Fund.
Among the essential services funded by the General Fund
are police protection, fire protection, and road and street
maintenance and improvements.

4.129.030 Operative Date. The general transactions
and use tax imposed hereunder shall be operative the first
day of the first calendar quarter commencing more than
110 days after the adoption of this Chapter (‘Operative
Date’). Based on a November 8, 2016 election, the

F:\A-Users\Greg\Revenue (Tax) Measure 2016\Ordinance\Draft Initiative Ordinance.VlO.Docx

3

i

Operative Date for the general transactions and use tax
imposed hereunder shall be April 1,2017.

4.129.040 Purpose. Pursuant to the requirements of the
State Board of Equalization, this Chapter is adopted to
achieve the following, among other purposes, and directs
that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to
accomplish those purposes:

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in
accordance with the provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing
with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code and Section 7285.9 of Part 1.7 of Division
2, and which authorizes the City to adopt this tax
ordinance, which shall be operative if a majority of the
electors voting on the measure vote to approve the
imposition of the tax at an election called for that
purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance
that incorporates provisions identical to those of the Sales
and Use Tax Law of the State of California insofar as
those provisions are not inconsistent with the
requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance
that imposes a tax and provides a measure therefore that
can be administered and collected by the State Board of
Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as
practicable to, and requires the least possible deviation
from, the existing statutory and administrative procedures
followed by the State Board of Equalization in
administering and collecting the California State Sales
and Use Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance
that can be administered in a manner that will be, to the
greatest degree possible, consistent with the provisions of
Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code,

F:\A-Users\Greg\Revenue (Tax) Measure 2016\Ordmance\Dra£t Initiative Ordinance. VIO.Docx

4

minimize the cost of collecting the transactions and use
taxes, and at the same time, minimize the burden of
record keeping upon persons subject to taxation under the
provisions of this Chapter.

4.129.050 Contract with State. Prior to the Operative
Date of this Chapter, the City shall contract with the State
Board of Equalization to perform all functions incident to
the administration and operation of this transactions and
use tax imposed under this Chapter; provided, that if the
City shall not have contracted with the State Board of
Equalization prior to the Operative Date, it shall
nevertheless so contract and in such a case the operative
date shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter
following the execution of such a contract.

4.129.060 Transactions Tax Rate. For the privilege of
selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax is hereby
imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated territory of
the City at the rate of one-half of one percent (0.50%) of
the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all
tangible personal property sold at retail in said territory
on and after the Operative Date of this Chapter.

4.129.070 Place of Sale. For the purposes of this
Chapter, all retail sales are consummated at the place of
business of the retailer, unless the tangible personal
property sold is delivered by the retailer, or his or her
agent, to an out-of-state destination or to a common
carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination. The
gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery
charges, when such charges are subject to the State sales
and use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is
made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of
business in the State, or has more than one place of
business, the place or places at which the retail sales are
consummated shall be determined under mles and
regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the State
Board of Equalization.

F:\A-Users\Greg\Revenue (Tax) Measure 2016\Ordinance\Draft Initiative Ordinance.V10.Docx

5

4.129.080 Use Tax Rate. An excise tax is hereby imposed on
the storage, use, or other consumption in the City of tangible
personal property purchased from any retailer on and after the
Operative Date of this Chapter for storage, use, or other
consumption in the City at the rate of one-half of one percent
(0.50%) of the sales price of the property. The sales price shall
include delivery charges when such charges are subject to the
State sales or use tax regardless of the place to which delivery is
made.

4.129.090 Adoption of Provisions of State Law.

Except as otherwise provided in this Chapter and except
insofar as they are inconsistent with the provisions of
Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code,
all of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing with Section
6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code
are hereby adopted and made a part of this Chapter as
though fully set forth herein.

4.129.100 Limitations on Adoption of State Law and
Collection of Use Taxes. In adopting the provisions of
Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or
referred to as the taxing agency, the name of this City
shall be substituted therefor. However, the substitution
shall not be made when:

1.	The word 'State' is used as a part of the title of the
State Controller, State Treasurer, State Board of
Control, State Board of Equalization, State
Treasury, or the Constitution of the State of
California;

2.	The result of that substitution would require action
to be taken by or against this City or any agency,
officer, or employee thereof rather than by or
against the State Board of Equalization, in
performing the functions incident to the
administration or operation of this Chapter.

F:\A-Users\Greg\Revenue (Tax) Measure 2016\Ordinance\Draft Initiative Ordinance. VIO.Docx

6

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily
limited to sections referring to the exterior
boundaries of the State of California, where the
result of the substitution would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this use tax with
respect to certain sales, storage, use or other
consumption of tangible personal property
which would not otherwise be exempt from
this tax while such sales, storage, use or
other consumption remain subject to tax by
the State under the provisions of Part 1 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales,
storage, use or other consumption of
tangible personal property which would not
be subject to tax by the State under the said
provision of that code.

4.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence
thereof), 6711, 6715,6737, 6797 or 6828 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code.

B.	The word 'City' shall be substituted for the word
'State' in the phrase 'retailer engaged in business in this
State' in Section 6203 and in the definition of that phrase
in Section 6203 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

4.129.110 Permit Not Required. If a seller’s permit has
been issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional transactor's
permit shall not be required by this Chapter.

4.129.120 Exemptions and Exclusions.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the
transactions and the use tax the amount of any sales tax

F:\A-Users\Greg\Revenue (Tax) Measure 2016\Ordinance\Draft Initiative Ordinance.V10.Docx

7

or use tax imposed by the State of California or by any
city, city and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-
Bums Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the
amount of any State-administered transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the
amount of the transactions tax the gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel
or petroleum products, to operators of aircraft to be
used or consumed principally outside the county in
which the sale is made and directly and exclusively
in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of
persons or property under the authority of the laws
of this State, the United States, or any foreign
government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the City which
is shipped to a point outside the City, pursuant to
the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by
the retailer or his agent, or by delivery by the
retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at
such point. For the purposes of this paragraph,
delivery to a point outside the City shall be
satisfied:

a. With respect to vehicles (other than

commercial vehicles) subject to registration
pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with
Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle
Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with
Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code,
and undocumented vessels registered under
Division 3.5 (commencing with Section
9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration to
an out-of-City address and by a declaration
under penalty of perjury, signed by the
buyer, stating that such address is, in fact,
his or her principal place of residence; and

F:\A~Users\Greg\Revenue (Tax) Measure 2016\Ordinance\Draft Initiative Ordinance.VIO.Docx

8

b, With respect to commercial vehicles, by
registration to a place of business out-of-
City and declaration under penalty of
perjury, signed by the buyer, that the vehicle
will be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller
is obligated to furnish the property for a fixed price
pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the
operative date of this Chapter.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a
continuing sale of such property, for any period of
time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the
property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to
the operative date of this Chapter.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of
this Section, the sale or lease of tangible personal
property shall be deemed not to be obligated
pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of
time for which any party to the contract or lease
has the unconditional right to terminate the
contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such
right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by

this Chapter, the storage, use, or other consumption in

this City of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have
been subject to a transactions tax under any state-
administered transactions and use tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased
by operators of aircraft and used or consumed by
such operators directly and exclusively in the use
of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or
property for hire or compensation under a
certificate of public convenience and necessity

F:\A-Users\Greg\Revenue (Tax) Measure 2Q16\Ordinance\Draft Initiative Ordinance. V10.Docx

9

issued pursuant to the laws of this State, the United
States, or any foreign government. This
exemption is in addition to the exemptions
provided in Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of
California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the
property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract
entered into prior to the operative date of this
Chapter.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or
power over, the tangible personal property arises
under a lease which is a continuing purchase of
such property for any period of time for which the
lessee is obligated to lease the property for an
amount fixed by a lease prior to the operative date
of this Chapter.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of
this Section, storage, use, or other consumption, or
possession of, or exercise of any right or power
over, tangible personal property shall be deemed
not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease
for any period of time for which any party to the
contract or lease has the unconditional right to
terminate the contract or lease upon notice,
whether or not such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer
engaged in business in the City shall not be
required to collect use tax from the purchaser of
tangible personal property, unless the retailer ships
or delivers the property into the City or participates
within the City in making the sale of the property,
including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving
the order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of
business of the retailer in the City or through any
representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor,

F:\A-Users\Greg\Revenue (Tax) Measure 2016\Ordinance\Draft Initiative Ordinance.VlO.Docx

10

subsidiary, or person in the City under the
authority of the retailer.

7.	‘A retailer engaged in business in the City’ shall
also include any retailer of any of the following:
vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter
1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3
of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in
compliance with Section 21411 of the Public
Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels registered
under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section
9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be
required to collect use tax from any purchaser who
registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft
at an address in the City.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this Chapter
may credit against that tax any transactions tax or
reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district
imposing, or retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant
to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code with respect to the sale to the person of the property
the storage, use or other consumption of which is subject
to the use tax.

4.129.130 Amendments. All amendments subsequent
to the effective date of this Chapter to Part 1 of Division
2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and
use taxes and which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and
Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code,
and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2
of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically
become a part of this Chapter, provided however, that no
such amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of
tax imposed by this Chapter.

4.129.140 Enjoining Collection Forbidden. No

injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable
process shall issue in any suit, action or proceeding in
any court against the State or the City, or against any

F:\A-Users\Greg\Revenue (Tax) Measure 2016\Ordinance\Draft Initiative Ordinance.V10.Docx

11

officer of the State or the City, to prevent or enjoin the
collection under this Chapter, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any
amount of tax required to be collected hereunder.

4.129.150 Tax Suspended If Proceeds Taken By State.

A.	Upon written notice from the City Council to the
State Board of Equalization as required, the tax imposed
by the provisions of this Chapter shall be suspended, and
all funding related thereto stopped, if the revenue
generated under this Chapter is diverted, seized, or taken
by the State of California without the authorization of a
majority of the voters of the City casting ballots on the
issue.

B.	The effective date of the suspension of the general
transactions and use tax imposed hereunder shall be the
first day of the first calendar quarter commencing more
than 110 days after the receipt by the State Board of
Equalization.

C.	The City Council may, at any time thereafter, find
that the State of California is no longer diverting, seizing,
or taking the proceeds of the transactions and use tax
imposed by this Chapter. Upon making that finding, the
City Council shall notify the State Board of Equalization
that the suspension of the tax is to be lifted. The lifting
of the suspension shall be effective and the tax thereafter
collected on the first day of the first calendar quarter
commencing more than 110 days after the receipt by the
State Board of Equalization of the notice from the City
Council.

4.129.160 Citizens Oversight Committee.

A. There is hereby created a San Buenaventura City
Clean Water/ Beaches/ Street Repairs/ Safety Measure
Citizens Oversight Committee (‘Citizens Oversight

F:\A-Users\Greg\Revenue (Tax) Measure 2016\Ordinance\Draft Initiative Ordinance.V10.Docx

12

Committee’) to review the revenues and expenditures
generated and spent under this Chapter.

B. The Citizens Oversight Committee shall consist of
seven members who shall be residents of the City.
Members shall be selected, appointed, and removed in
accordance with Chapter 2.410 of this Code.

C Members of the Citizen Oversight Committee shall
serve terms as provided for in Section 2.410.220 of this
Code.

D.	Any vacancy for a member on the Citizens
Oversight Committee shall be filled in accordance with
Section 2.410.260 of this Code.

E.	Members of the Citizens Oversight Committee
shall be restricted to individuals who are registered voters
within the City of San Buenaventura. Elected officials at
any level of government and employees of the City of
San Buenaventura and the dependents of each are
ineligible to serve as members of the Citizens Oversight
Committee.

F.	The Citizens Oversight Committee shall review the
projected revenues and recommended expenditures for
the funds generated by this Chapter and shall make their
recommendations to the City Council on the same as a
part of the City’s budget process. After a review of the
independent audit required by Section 4.129.180 hereof,
the Citizens Oversight Committee shall provide its
findings to the City Council. Unless modified by City
Council by Ordinance, the Citizens Oversight Committee
shall not have any function, power, or authority other
than as expressly provided herein.

G.	The Citizens Oversight Committee shall meet
quarterly or as often as it deems necessary to accomplish
the objectives stated in this Section.

F:\A-Users\Greg\Revenue (Tax) Measure 2016\Ordinance\Draft Initiative Ordinance.VIO.Docx

13

4.129.170 Accounting and Report. Prior to the

adoption of the City budget in June of each year, the City
Manager and the Director of Finance and Technology
shall present to the City Council an accounting of the tax
revenues received and expenditures made under this
Chapter.

4.129.180 Independent Audit. After the close of every
fiscal year in which the tax imposed hereunder is levied,
the City shall cause an independent audit to be conducted
as to the revenue generated as a result of this Measure
and to ensure the proper expenditure thereof consistent
with the purposes of this Chapter. The report and any
findings of the independent auditor shall be transmitted
to the Mayor, City Council, City Manager, City Attorney,
Director of Finance and Technology, and the Citizens
Oversight Committee established by Section 4.129.160
hereof.

4.129.190 Authority to Amend. In order to further the
purposes and intent of this Chapter, the City Council is
authorized to amend this Chapter in the following areas
without a further vote of the People:

A.	The composition of the Citizens Oversight
Committee;

B.	The suspension or reactivation of this Chapter if
the revenue generated under this Chapter is diverted by
the State of California for purposes other than those
specifically enumerated herein;

C.	Any change required by the State of California as a
precondition to the collection of the tax authorized
hereunder.

Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary, any
proposed change to the tax rate imposed under this
Chapter shall be submitted to the vote of the People.

F:\A-UsersVGreg\Revenue (Tax) Measure 2016\Ordinance\Draft Initiative Ordinance. VIO.Docx

14

4.129.200 Termination Pate. The authority to levy the
tax imposed hereunder shall expire twenty-five (25) years
from the Operative Date, unless extended by the voters.”

SECTION 2 EFFECTIVE DATE. This Ordinance relates to
the levying and collecting of the City transactions and use tax shall be in full
force and effect ten (10) days after the certification by the City Council of
the election returns indicating passage of the Ordinance by a majority of the
voters casting votes in the election; however, the collection of the
transaction and use tax shall be in accordance with Section 4.129.030 of the
San Buenaventura Municipal Code as the Operative Date.

SECTION 3. SEVERABILITY. If any section, subsection,
subdivision, sentence, clause, phrase, or portion of this Ordinance, is for any
reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional by the decision of any court of
competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions of this Ordinance. The People of the City of San
Buenaventura hereby declare that they would have adopted this Ordinance,
and each section, subsection, subdivision, sentence, clause, phrase, or
portion thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections,
subsections, subdivisions, sentences, clauses, phrases, or portions thereof be
declared invalid or unconstitutional.

SECTION 4. PUBLICATION. The City Clerk is directed to
cause a copy of this Ordinance to be published in the official newspaper at
least once within fifteen (15) days after its approval by the voters.

\\

\\

w

w

w

F:\A-Users\Greg\Revenuc (Tax) Measure 2016\Ordinance\Draft Initiative Ordinance.VIO.Docx

15

The foregoing Ordinance was approved by the voters of the City of
San Buenaventura at a General Municipal Election held on the 8 day of
November 2016, by the following vote tally:

YES:	28,987	VOTES
NOES:	20,359	VOTES

OTHER:	N/A

Erik Nasarenko
Mayor

ATTEST:

CITY CLERK

BY:

City Clerk

(SEAL)

APPROVED AS TO FORM:

GREGORY G. DIAZ, CITY ATTORNEY



>rney

F:\A-Users\Greg\Revenue (Tax) Measure 2016\Ordinance\Draft Initiative Ordinance V10 Docx

16

CERTIFICATION

STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF VENTURA

SS.

CITY OF SAN BUENAVENTURA )

I, ANTOINETTE M. MANN, City Clerk of the City of San Buenaventura,
California, DO HEREBY CERTIFY that the foregoing ORDINANCE was approved
by the Voters of the City of San Buenaventura at a regular election held on
November8,2016. The City Council confirmed the canvass of the election returns
and declared the ordinance adopted on December 12, 2016. This ordinance shall
take effect on December 22,2016 pursuant to Elections Code Section 9217. This
ordinance shall not be repealed or amended except by a vote of the people, unless
provision is otherwise made in the original ordinance.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the official seal
of the City of San Buenaventura, California.



Antoinette M. Mann, City Clerk
City of San Buenaventura, California

Date Attested

CERTIFICATION

STATE OF CALIFORNIA	)

COUNTY OF VENTURA	)	SS.

CITY OF SAN BUENAVENTURA )

I, ANTOINETTE M. MANN, City Clerk of the City of San Buenaventura, DO
HEREBY CERTIFY that the foregoing is a full, true, and correct copy of Resolution
No. 2017-029 which was duly and regularly passed and adopted by said City
Council at a regular meeting held June 12, 2017, by the following vote:

AYES:	Councilmembers LaVere, Weir, Tracy, Heitmann, Monahan,

Deputy Mayor Andrews and Mayor Nasarenko

NOES:	None

ABSENT:	None

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the
official seal of the City of San Buenaventura, California.

Antoinette M. Mann, City Clerk
City of San Buenaventura, California

(jWny.	3-0 to-

Date Attested