VOTER INFORMATION PAMPHLET

015

The following pages contain voter information applicable to your ballot which
may include any/all of the following items:

>	CANDIDATES’ STATEMENTS

>	BALLOT MEASURES

>	ANALYSES

>	ARGUMENTS, FOR & AGAINST

This pamphlet section may not contain a statement for each candidate. A complete list of candidates appears on the
Ballot/Sample Ballot. Each candidate’s statement in this pamphlet is volunteered by the candidate and is printed at the
expense of the candidate unless otherwise determined by the governing body. Each candidate’s statement is printed in
uniform format exactly as submitted by the candidate.

ARGUMENTS IN SUPPORT OF OR IN OPPOSITION TO THE
PROPOSED LAW ARE OPINIONS OF THE AUTHORS

Prop. 34 - Expenditure Limitations: State Legislative Candidates

Proposition 34 was passed by voters in November 2000. The law requires county election officials to provide
the names of those State Legislative candidates who have voluntarily agreed to expenditure limits. Candidates
who agree to the expenditure limits may submit and pay for a Candidate’s Statement of Qualification to be
printed in this pamphlet. The following State Legislative candidates appearing on ballots in El Dorado County
have accepted the voluntary expenditure limitations pursuant to Proposition 34.

1st State Senate	5th State Assembly	6th State Assembly
Rob Rowen, Democratic	Robert Carabas, Democratic	Brian Caples, Democratic
Ted Gaines, Republican	Frank Bigelow, Republican	Kevin Kiley, Republican

Party Endorsement

ELECTION CODE 13302. (b) In connection with an election at which a candidate for a voter-nominated office will appear on the ballot, a qualified political
party may submit to the county elections official a list of all candidates for voter-nominated office who will appear on a ballot in the county in question, and
who have been endorsed by the party by whatever lawful mechanism the party adopts for endorsing candidates for voter-nominated office. If a political
party timely submits a list to the county elections official pursuant to this subdivision, the county elections official shall print the names of the candidates for
voter-nominated office who were endorsed by that political party in the voter information portion of the sample ballot. The party chairperson shall provide a
written copy of the list of candidates endorsed by the party not later than 83 days prior to the election at which the candidate for a voter-nominated office
will appear on the ballot. (Amended by Stats. 2012, Ch. 3, Sec. 43. Effective February 10, 2012.)

The following is a list of candidates appearing on the ballot in El Dorado County that have been endorsed,
pursuant to EC 13302(b), by the listed political parties. All questions about this list should be directed to the party
in question.

Party	US Senate	4th Congress	1st Senate	5th Assembly	6th Assembly
American Independent	None	Tom McClintock	Ted Gaines	Frank Bigelow	Kevin P Kiley
Democratic	Kamala D Harris	Robert W Derlet	Rob Rowen	Robert Carabas	Brian Caples
Peace and Freedom	None	None	None	None	None
Republican	None	Tom McClintock	Ted Gaines	Frank Bigelow	Kevin P Kiley

The following is a list of party abbreviations used on your ballot.			
DEM - Democratic	REP-Republican	Al - American Independent	GRN - Green
LIB-Libertarian	PF - Peace and Freedom	REP, Al - Republican, American Independent (for Trump/Pence nomination only)	

VPI-015

Who is on the ballot for this election?

In the November General Election, all voters receive the same ballot, no matter what political party you are
registered with (or if you have no party preference). The address where you are registered to vote
determines which contests are on your ballot.

The top two-the ones with the most votes in the Primary Election-are on your ballot
for this election.

In the June Primary Election, all Californians were able to vote to decide which candidates for state and local
offices moved on to the November General Election.

Offices that are part of the Top 2 Primary

The following offices, called voter-nominated offices, are part of the Top 2 Primary:

•	U.S. Senator

•	U.S. Representative

•	State Senator

•	State Assembly Member

There is no write-in for these offices.

Both candidates on the ballot may have the same party preference. A candidate may be nominated by
more than one party. The candidate’s party preference (or “None”) is listed under their name. For
example:

JOHN SMITH
Party Preference: DEM

JANE DOE

Party Preference: REP

CHRIS JONES
Party Preference: NONE

County, city, school and

Candidates for the following nonpartisan offices were chosen in the June Primary Election:

•	County Supervisor

If a candidate for these local offices received at least 50% plus 1 vote in the Primary, they were elected
and are not on the General Election ballot.

OR

If no candidate won, the two candidates with the most votes are on the ballot.

•	Also on the November ballot are candidates running for school and special districts, as well as city
offices.

You can write-in a candidate for these offices.

Candidates for nonpartisan local offices do not have a party preference listed on the ballot.

For more information, you can call the Elections Department at (530) 621-7480.

The following party abbreviations have been used on your ballot.		
DEM - Democratic	REP - Republican	Al - American Independent
GRN - Green	LIB - Libertarian	PF - Peace and Freedom
REP, Al - Republican, American Independent (for Trump/Pence nomination only)		

special district offices

Are You Having Difficulty Voting Because of a Disability? CALL: 1-888-569-7955

Disability Rights California will operate a statewide hotline from 7:00 AM to 8:00PM on Election Day to help
voters with disabilities have a successful voting experience.

VIP-02

STATEMENT OF CANDIDATE FOR UNITED STATES REPRESENTATIVE 4TH DISTRICT  ROBERT WDERLET  Occupation: Physician, Professor, Author  Education and Qualifications: Listening to the people in this district motivated me to run for Congress. Too many families, young people, and retired workers experience pain and frustration created by the growing costs of everyday living, from housing costs to groceries. Increased healthcare costs top the list, with families paying outrageous costs for insurance, deductibles, non-covered services, and prescription drugs. I’ll fight to lower healthcare costs for everyone and also offer Medicare beginning at age 55.  I’ll vote to increase consumer protection to counter deceptive Wall Street practices and keep Social Security and Medicare away from Wall Street privatization.  I’ll fight to keep good jobs in the USA, increase wages and benefits, support legislation to reduce the cost of education, and help small businesses succeed.  Our High Sierra forests face new wildfire threats from drought and warming temperatures. I’ll work to increase funding to remove dead trees and brush, protect our watershed, ensure clean air and water, and also support measures to tackle global climate change.  I’ve worked hard all my life, beginning at age 8 delivering newspapers, then labored in clerical, factory, shipping, ranching, and construction jobs. After becoming a physician, 1 served 18 years as Professor and Chief of the Emergency Department, UC Davis Medical Center, where 1 taught medical students and supervised the care of nearly 1 million ER patients. I’ve hiked thousands of miles in our district’s wilderness watershed while conducting research on water bacteria and quality in the High Sierra.  Please visit www.derletforcongress.com.	STATEMENT OF CANDIDATE FOR UNITED STATES REPRESENTATIVE 4TH DISTRICT  TOM McCLINTOCK  Occupation: United States Representative  Education and Qualifications: America has enjoyed its greatest prosperity and happiness when it has known its greatest freedom. Our Founders created a society where we were free to make our own choices, enjoy the fruit of our own labors, take responsibility for our own decisions and lead our own lives with a minimum of governmental interference and intrusion. Government protected our fundamental rights and left us otherwise alone to live our own lives as we saw fit. Today, a very different vision competes for our future: an all-powerful government that commands our economic decisions, micro-manages our daily lives, and consumes more and more of our earnings. In the last eight years, it has disrupted our healthcare system, shrunk our family incomes, threatened our constitutional rights, doubled our national debt, overwhelmed us with illegal immigration and placed our children in danger of becoming the first American generation to be less well off than their parents.  The election of 2016 will decide whether America becomes another failed socialist state or whether this generation of Americans revives and restores the founding American principles of individual liberty, constitutionally limited government and personal responsibility that produced the happiest, freest and most prosperous society in human history.  You sent me to Washington to fight to restore the freedom that made America great, and 1 am doing everything in my power to do so.  1 am asking for your support to continue this fight. You can read more about my proposals at TomMcClintock.com.
STATEMENT OF CANDIDATE FOR STATE ASSEMBLY 5TH DISTRICT  FRANK BIGELOW AGE: 62  Occupation: Rancher/Businessman/Assemblyman Education and Qualifications: As your Assemblyman, you’ve put your trust in me to protect taxpayers from Sacramento’s out-of-control spending and to defend our way of life. Despite all the work we’ve done together, it’s clear there are many problems left to solve.  That’s why I’m asking for your trust to continue our fight for a stronger economy, a smaller state government, additional water storage for our communities and the quality education our children deserve.  Our region’s unemployment rate remains higher than the rest of California and we simply must take action to provide economic opportunity for those who are out of work.  That opportunity starts with a strong education. That’s why 1 supported a plan to invest in early childhood education and ensure our local schools get their fair share. And it’s also why I’m supporting a proposal to help our schools build new facilities to help all our children succeed.  When it comes to strengthening our economy, I’ll continue to work on policies that not only create new jobs, but also keep the ones we have from being lost to other states.  And I’ll continue to be an outspoken voice to help deliver water to our communities and invest in water storage projects for the future.  I’d be honored with your trust and your vote to continue our fight for  local jobs and a stronger local economy.  www.frankbigelow.com	STATEMENT OF CANDIDATE FOR STATE ASSEMBLY 5TH DISTRICT  ROBERT CARABAS  Occupation: Retired  Education and Qualifications: As 1 look around my district 1 am deeply concerned about the lack of opportunities for young people, which were plentiful when 1 was a kid. For years, like many of us, 1 wanted to believe that this problem would solve itself, or wasn’t as bad as 1 thought. With the arrival of the first of five grandchildren however,  1 felt driven to stop talking about the issues and run for political office, to find workable solutions, and help rebuild the American Dream for everyone’s children and grandchildren.  This isn’t my first time in the political arena. When the infrastructure of the Berkeley Public Schools was crumbling around my children, 1 worked tirelessly with other parents to pass a bond measure that rebuilt every school, provided books, supplies and materials, while reducing class size. My experience as a corporate credit manager was key to crafting a measure that had parent, teacher and administrator oversight at each school, was fully funded, and was successful in improving Berkeley’s public education in the short and long term.  We need to take this approach statewide. We need to focus on rebuilding infrastructure, reducing healthcare costs, and responding to the changing climate, all while creating living wage jobs so that our citizens can participate in our local economy.  And, perhaps most importantly, 1 will represent all voters in this fight. 1 refuse to take donations over $200, because special interests take care of themselves, not the children and grandchildren that we need to protect.  http://www.facebook.com/robertjamescarabas

09-101

STATEMENT OF CANDIDATE FOR
LOS RIOS COMMUNITY COLLEGE DISTRICT
TRUSTEE AREA 3

MARC ALLAMAN

Occupation: Retired Teacher

Education and Qualifications: El Dorado County deserves the best
representative as their choice for the Los Rios Community College
Board of Trustees. El Dorado County deserves to have a trustee that
has many years of experience working in education. El Dorado
County deserves to have a trustee that has years of experience
working collaboratively to develop multi-million dollar budgets in
education. El Dorado County deserves a trustee that has years of
successful experience working with teacher labor relations and
experience necessary to work effectively with all manner of
stakeholders.

If you share these values, please consider me as your candidate of
choice for Los Rios Community College Board Trustee. I believe in
giving back to our community. I self-finance my campaign. I take no
money from contributors.

I have worked in educational instruction for 33 years in California. I
have successfully served as a local district’s association president as
the lead labor representative and have decades of experience
organizing groups of teachers in management and curriculum
development. I have years of experience of volunteering and currently
serve as a Commissioner for a local city and am also president of a
large local home-owners association and coached youth soccer for 10
years.

STATEMENT OF CANDIDATE FOR
LOS RIOS COMMUNITY COLLEGE DISTRICT
TRUSTEE AREA 3

JOHN R KNIGHT	AGE:	68

Occupation: Los Rios Trustee/Small Business owner
Education and Qualifications: The most important part to remember
about being on the Los Rios Community College District Board is you
and your family. The hard working students who attend our
community colleges deserve all the support and encouragement
possible. Their job is not easy. My job is to make sure necessary
support is there for our students when they need it.

As your trustee, we’ve made progress such opening the new gym
facility at Folsom Lake College and a new student service building at
Sacramento City College. We expanded veterans services and
expanded student services at the El Dorado Center. We opened a
new Rancho Cordova Center. Light rail was extended to Cosumnes
College through partnership with the transit district.

Our district continues to expand educational opportunities while
maintaining a strong financial base. But there is more to be done. We
must ensure that we are reaching all students who desire to improve
their job skills and further their education.

I will continue to support partnerships with the K-12 school systems
and work with students, faculty, administration and the community. It
is my job assure that necessary support for our students. They
deserve no less.

09-202

STATEMENT OF CANDIDATE FOR EL DORADO UNION HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT GOVERNING BOARD MEMBER  DAVID B BICKNELL  Occupation: Local Business Owner  Education and Qualifications: As an involved parent 1 have attended the EDUHSD board meetings for the past several years. 1 worked diligently to ensure the district made necessary corrections to the boundary lines, allowing middle school students to attend high school with their classmates. Beginning in 2017, 1 will have children attend high school within the district until 2023 and will continue working to ensure our students are presented with the best possible learning opportunities.  The role of the board is to provide a high quality education to every student, by effectively managing the staff, teachers, district personnel, facilities and finances while maintaining the trust of the community though proper leadership. 1 have served on various boards, including those in the private sector and non-profit organizations.  1 have managed large numbers of people throughout my business career and have always taken the approach of a servant leader. As a successful business leader, 1 have significant experience in managing personnel, budgeting, the need for compassion and the challenge of making the toughest decisions that can have dramatic impacts across many people.  As a fiscal conservative, your tax dollars will be wisely invested in providing the best possible future for our students of the El Dorado Union High School District.	STATEMENT OF CANDIDATE FOR EL DORADO UNION HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT GOVERNING BOARD MEMBER  DAVID J DEL RIO AGE: 55  Occupation: Executive Director EDCA Lifeskills / Parent Education and Qualifications: I’m excited to run for the High School Board again to focus on District resources in regards to programs and services that impact our students. One example of change is the adjusted boundaries that allow students to attend the high school in their neighborhood. With four years of experience and serving as this year’s president, 1 feel I’m qualified and prepared to address student needs within the District.  I’ve held multiple Board Member positions over the years that include SARB, Kiwanis of Placerville, Big Brothers/Big Sisters, M.O.R.E., Food Bank of El Dorado, and more.  1 began my career with El Dorado County Probation as Counselor/Supervisor of teens. Currently I’m the Executive Director of EDCA Lifeskills, which I’ve managed for the past 19 years. My adult work life has been spent meeting the needs of at-risk children and adults to provide them with a new direction away from crime, drugs, and hopelessness.  I’m a 1979 graduate of Ponderosa High School and am proud to serve in the district 1 graduated. 1 have great confidence in the staff, teachers, students and parents of this district and strive to be fair and make good choices for all. My wife, Chris, and 1 have three children that have graduated from our exceptional high schools.
STATEMENT OF CANDIDATE FOR EL DORADO UNION HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT GOVERNING BOARD MEMBER  DELOY LINK  Occupation: Behavioral Therapist/Small Business Owner Education and Qualifications: 1 am A Leader Who Listens.  As a Trustee 1 will be a forward thinker who provides stable leadership.  Our children deserve a public education which reaches beyond standards.  1 am dedicated to creating a district of national prominence which fully prepares students to participate in a global and local economy.  As a graduate of Ponderosa High School, Cal Poly SLO, and Cal State East Bay, my master’s degree in Counseling Psychology prepared me to become a Behavioral Therapist.  For 22 years 1 have advocated and obtained resources for students who have learning differences and special needs.  In supporting gifted students and over performers, 1 will insight our District to create a STEAM program and provide summer enrichment opportunities for all students.  We must also create a safe and positive learning environment at every school in our district - large and small.  All of this can be done while maintaining strong fiscal controls over district budgets and spending, this includes responsible appropriation of Mello Roos funds.  Together we can give our kids the district they deserve. A vote for Deloy Link is a vote for a Superior Education for All Types of Learners. Visit www.ElectDeloyLink.com	STATEMENT OF CANDIDATE FOR EL DORADO UNION HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT GOVERNING BOARD MEMBER  LORI M VEERKAMP  Occupation: Parent/grandparent/School Board member Education and Qualifications: 1 was first elected to the EDHSD board in 2004. I’m currently the only female board member; 1 bring the woman/mother’s perspective to many decisions. 1 am proud of the accomplishments our district has achieved in the past twelve years. Our student academic achievements continue to surpass most schools within the region.  During the most recent national economic difficulties, our school district was able to retain our highly qualified teaching staff and keep intact our Career Technology/Regional Occupational Programs.  We have maintained a balanced budget with a reserve for financial stability even during one of the worst economic downturns this nation has ever experienced.  Our communities are still reaping the benefits from the Measure Q bond that increased the educational opportunities for all students, significantly enhanced classroom technology, greatly improved our athletic facilities and continues to be a source of community pride throughout the district.  If re-elected, 1 will continue maintaining an environment that attracts highly qualified staff and utilize taxpayer dollars for the benefit of all. 1 would be honored for your support, so 1 can continue working hard for the students and parents of our county. Thank you.

STATEMENT OF CANDIDATE FOR RESCUE UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT GOVERNING BOARD MEMBER  STEPHANIE KENT AGE: 43  Occupation: Piano/Substitute Teacher  Education and Qualifications: 1 bring a passionate, new voice to our community where I’m a parent and have recently served several years as a volunteer and employee at RUSD. My unique and well-rounded perspective can facilitate communication, trust, and respect.  As a substitute teacher for the last five years I’ve experienced firsthand the challenges our kids and teachers encounter daily. 1 plan to represent these complexities in an effort to provide better resources and support for every child while striving to keep classroom sizes small and incorporating new technology.  As an active seven year PTO member, including two years as president, 1 worked collaboratively with teachers, administration, and our community to provide improvements, including school-wide technology enhancements. Safety protocol reviews for our children was a high priority during my several years on School Site Council. As a Site Council Member and regular attendee at district board and budget meetings, I’ve become versed in policy and budgetary cycles and procedures. Participating as a parent representative on two management hiring panels, previous Human Resources employment, and a BS and MA in sociology gives me breadth in personnel and organizational management.  1 will be your voice for our children and community.  Endorsed by Rescue Union Federation of Teachers.	STATEMENT OF CANDIDATE FOR RESCUE UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT GOVERNING BOARD MEMBER  TAGGART “TAGG” F NEAL  Occupation: Business Owner/Entrepreneur/Parent Education and Qualifications: 1 am a parent with three children attending schools in the Rescue Union School District. 1 have a vested interest in ensuring RUSD continues down a path of academic excellence. 1 will serve on the board with passion and commitment.  1 am a veteran, small business owner and entrepreneur. My experiences in these realms will enable to me offer the Rescue Union School District board numerous skills including: the ability to work well with others, setting and prioritizing goals, policy making, negotiations, budget planning, and facility management.  My wife Tami and 1 are both proud recipients of a RUSD education. My goal is to help RUSD maintain and enhance the proud legacy that was built upon tradition, academic excellence and community. 1 am the product of a public educator and a law-enforcement officer. My upbringing has instilled in me a deep commitment to community involvement and service.  Honored to be endorsed by the following individuals:  Anthony “Tony” P. DeVille Sr. - RUSD  Eric Cavaliere - ORHS  Steven J. Arendt - RUSD  Tyson Escobar - PHS  Please visit: www.tagg4rusd.com  It is with humility and confidence that 1 ask for your vote as Board of Education trustee in the Rescue Union School District. Tagg
STATEMENT OF CANDIDATE FOR RESCUE UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT GOVERNING BOARD MEMBER  SERENA POSNER  Occupation: Incumbent  Education and Qualifications: 1 have had the pleasure of serving on the Rescue Union District School Board since 1997. My goal is to see that Rescue maintains its wonderful reputation with excellent teachers, administrators, staff and students. Our test scores are just one bench mark to prove why people want to move into our District. Communication with all of our staff and community is vital. The LCAP (Local Control Accountability Plan) is a rigid program that every school in the State needed. The LCAP is a tool to hear all voices and to understand what is most important for our students. This can mean learning styles, emotional support and future successes. 1 am also an advocate for fairness. 1 listen and formulate an opinion. 1 then analyze if a request can be honored or made with compromise. If you want someone who cares for the institution of our public schools please vote for me.	DECLARACION DE CANDIDATO PARA MIEMBRO DE LA JUNTA GOBERNANTE DEL DISTRITO ESCOLAR DE RESCUE UNION  STEPHANIE KENT EDAD: 43  Ocupacion: Maestra de piano/sustituta  Educacion y cualificaciones: Traigo una voz nueva y apasionada a nuestra comunidad, en la que soy madre y recientemente he sido voluntaria y empleada del Distrito Escolar de Rescue Union (Rescue Union School District, RUSD) durante varios anos. Mi perspectiva unica e integral puede facilitar la comunicacion, la confianza y el respeto.  Como maestra sustituta durante los ultimos cinco anos, he vivido en primera persona los desafios a los que se enfrentan nuestros ninos y maestros diariamente. Tengo previsto representar estas complejidades como parte de una iniciativa para ofrecer mejores recursos y apoyo a cada nino y, a su vez, luchar para mantener clases poco numerosas e incorporar nueva tecnologia.  Como miembro activa de la Organization de Padres y Maestros (Parent- Teacher Organization, PTO) desde hace siete anos, dos de los cuales ejerti el cargo de presidenta, trabaje en colaboracion con los maestros, la administration y nuestra comunidad para implementar mejoras, incluidas las mejoras en la tecnologia de toda la escuela. Las revisiones de los protocolos de seguridad de nuestros ninos fue una de las principales prioridades durante varios de los anos que estuve en el Consejo Escolar. Como miembro del Consejo Escolar y asistente regular a las reuniones de presupuesto y de la junta del distrito, me he familiarizado con los ciclos y procedimientos presupuestarios y de politicas. Mi participation como representante de los padres en dos paneles de contratacion gerencial, haber trabajado previamente en Recursos Humanos y tener una licenciatura y una maestria en Sociologia me brindan una amplia capacidad en la gestion de personal y organizaciones.  Sere la voz que los represente, a favor de nuestros ninos y la comunidad. Apoyada por la Federation de Maestros de Rescue Union (Rescue Union Federation of Teachers).

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE M

RESOLUTION OF THE HICKOK ROAD COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT PROPOSING A BALLOT
MEASURE TO INCREASE THE SPECIAL TAX TO PROVIDE FOR MAINTAINING, UPGRADING,

AND IMPROVING DISTRICT ROADS

WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of the Hickok Road Community Services District wishes to submit to the voters of the District a proposal to
increase funding for maintaining, upgrading and improving of District roads; and

WHEREAS, Government Code §50075 et. seq. provides authority for special districts to impose special taxes; and

WHEREAS, the Board has determined that increasing the existing special tax rate by $100 per parcel per year is necessary in order to
adequately fund maintaining, upgrading and improving District roads; and

WHEREAS, the Board has determined that the electors within the District should have the opportunity to decide whether the level of funding
for maintaining, upgrading and improving District roads; and

WHEREAS, Government Code §53722 provides that a special tax must be submitted to the electorate of the District and approved by a two-
thirds vote of the voters voting on the issue.

NOW THEREFORE, BE IT HEREBY RESOLVED by the Board of Directors of the Hickok Road Community Services District as follows:

1.	The Board shall submit to the voters the question of whether to increase the special tax within the District for the purpose of
maintaining, upgrading, and improving District roads from $200 to $300 per parcel per year.

2.	The special tax may be reduced or adjusted at the beginning of each fiscal year, commencing July 1, 2017, following a public hearing,
by an amount not to exceed the cost of living as determined by the Consumer Price Index (CPI) prepared by the United States Bureau
of Labor Statistics or similar indicator of inflation that may come into common and widespread use.

3.	The Hickok Road Community Services District requests that the El Dorado County Registrar of Voters place the proposed measure
before the voters of the Hickok Road Community Services District on November 8, 2016 election.

4.	The title of the measure shall be “Hickok Road Community Services District Adequate Funding Initiative.”

5.	The measure shall appear on the ballot in substantially the following form: Shall the Hickok Road Community Services district increase
the current annual special tax to fund maintaining, upgrading, and improving District roads by $100 per parcel per year such that the
total tax will increase from $200 to $300 per parcel per year?

6.	A certified copy of this Resolution shall be delivered to the Office of the El Dorado County Clerk and County Clerk shall be directed to
conduct said election pursuant to applicable laws of the State of California.

7.	If approved by the electorates as set forth above, said special tax shall be levied and collected in accordance with this resolution and
shall be collected in the same manner and subject to the same penalty as, or with, other charges and taxes fixed and collected by the
District or by the County of El Dorado.

8.	If approved by the electorate as set forth above the special tax increase set forth above shall augment existing sources of revenue to
the Hickok Road Community Services District and shall not apply to parcels owned by a federal or state governmental agency or
another local agency.

9.	In accordance with applicable laws, the Hickok Road Community Services District shall reimburse the County of El Dorado for the cost
of such election.

10.	Pursuant to Government Code §50075.1 the specific purposes of the special taxes are hereby identified as maintaining, upgrading and
improving District roads.

11.	The proceeds of the special tax shall only be applied to the specific purpose identified above and shall be deposited into a special
account created for that purpose.

12.	The District shall prepare an annual report pursuant to Government Code §50075.3 to determine the amount of funds collected and
expended and to identify the purposes for which the special tax funds have been expended.

13.	In the event of any ambiguity, uncertainty or conflict regarding the application of the special tax to a particular parcel of land such
ambiguity shall be resolved by formal motion of the Board of Directors of the Hickok Road Community Services District.

14.	If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause of phrase in this measure, or any part thereof, is held invalid or
unconstitutional, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining sections or portions of this chapter or part thereof. The
Board hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this
measure irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases may be
declared invalid or unconstitutional.

15.	This measure shall take effect immediately upon its adoption.

09-923

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE M

This measure, if approved by 2/3 of the voters voting on the measure, would authorize an increase in a special tax on parcels of real property
in the Hickok Road Community Services District (“District”), to be used for the costs of maintaining, upgrading and improving roads within the
District.

This special tax would be in the amount of $300 per year per parcel of land located within the boundaries of the District. The special tax may
be reduced at the beginning of each fiscal year, following a public hearing, by an amount not to exceed the cost of living, as determined by the
Consumer Price Index. The special tax would commence on July 1, 2017, and would replace the existing special tax of $200 currently
imposed on all parcels within the District.

The special tax may be listed as a separate item on the county property tax bill for each affected parcel of land, and will be collected in the
same way as the general property tax. All laws applicable to the levy, collection, and enforcement of county property taxes, including the
provisions for penalties and the procedures for sale of the property in case of delinquency, may also apply to the special tax.

State law requires the proceeds from the special tax be applied only to the identified purposes, and that an annual report be made indicating
the amount of funds collected and expended and the status of any project required or authorized to be funded by the proceeds.

This measure was placed on the ballot by Resolution of the Board of Directors of the District.

A “YES” vote is a vote to authorize an increase in the annual special tax from $200 to $300 per parcel per year.

A “NO” vote is a vote against an increase in the annual special tax.

Michael J. Ciccozzi, County Counsel

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE M

The Hickok Road CSD board is recommending increasing the special tax used for maintenance of Hickok, Sweet Valley and Harlan roads from
$200 to $300 annually because of the increase in asphalt costs. In 1998, an overlay was applied to all 3 roads for approximately $70,000. Two
competitive bids to overlay Hickok ALONE in 2016 were closer to $160K. We do not have the funds to do the other 2 roads at this time.

Janna Buwalda, Volunteer General Manager

NO ARGUMENTS AGAINST THIS MEASURE WERE SUBMITTED

09-924