CITY ATTORNEY IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF BALLOT MEASURE "P

12.a

The City of El Centro currently collects a local sales and use tax of eight percent (8%). The City
Council has placed Measure “P” on the ballot to ask the voters to amend the City’s Municipal Code to
increase the local sales and use tax by a half cent effective April 1, 2017. The total sales and use tax
would be 8.5% for the period of the tax.

The sales tax is paid in addition to and as a percentage of the price of tangible personal property.
It is paid on retail transactions within the City in the same manner as state sales tax and is imposed on
retailers for the privilege of selling tangible personal property. The use tax is imposed in the same
manner on the consumption of such personal property.

If approved, the period of the half-cent increase in the sales and use tax is 30 years and three
months from its effective date. The tax will terminate without further action of the voters at midnight on
June 30, 2047.

It is anticipated that this rate increase will generate an additional $5.5M per year. Because
Measure "P" is a general tax, the proceeds of the tax may be used for any City general governmental
purpose, including but not limited to fire and police services; street operations and maintenance; library,
and parks and recreation facilities and services.

In order for the City to adopt the amendments to its Municipal Code described above, Measure
"P" must be approved by a majority of the votes cast by the voters within the City voting on the ballot
proposition.

A “yes” vote on Measure "P" will authorize the amendments to the City’s Municipal Code
described above and will levy the increased sales tax as of April 1, 2017 through June 30, 2047.

A “no” vote on Measure "P" will prohibit the City from adopting the amendments to its
Municipal Code to increase the tax and the present sales and use tax will remain in place at eight percent
(8%) until otherwise revised by a majority vote of the voters.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Ordinance or Measure “P”. If you desire
a copy of the ordinance or measure, please call the election official’s office at 760- 337-
4515 and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you.

Packet Pg.26

Attachment: Sales Tax Measure P-CA Impartial Analysis-Final (1937 : Impartial Analysis of Ballot Measure "P")