MEASURE H
THE CITY OF COLFAX

Shall the City of Colfax adopt an ordinance which allows and regulates marijuana
dispensaries, cultivation, delivery and use, and imposes a sales tax of up to fifteen
percent (15%) on the sale of marijuana and marijuana products, which shall be in
addition to established municipal and state taxes on such sales, and dedicates all
revenues derived from such tax to reduce City business and residential sewer service
charges.

YES

NO

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF COLFAX MEASURE H
ALFRED A. CABRAL, COLFAX CITY ATTORNEY

Measure H is a City-initiated ballot measure that was placed on the ballot by the Colfax City Council. Colfax Municipal
Code Chapter 17.162 presently prohibits medical maryuana dispensaries in all zoning districts throughout the City of
Colfax.

Measure H, if passed, will repeal the prohibition on medical maryuana dispensaries in Colfax and will allow medical
maryuana dispensaries to operate on parcels not zoned residential. All dispensaries will be required to obtain a
conditional use permit in order to operate.

Measure H contains provisions that will allow indoor and outdoor cultivation of maryuana in certain locations by qualified
patients of up to 100 square feet per patient and by qualified caregivers of up to 100 square feet per patient to a
maximum of five patients. The Measure allows commercial cultivation of marijuana limited to four acres per person or
entity. It will additionally allow medical maryuana delivery, transportation, manufacturing and related businesses within
Colfax City limits. Medical maryuana cultivation, delivery, transportation, manufacturing and related businesses will require
licenses issued both by the City and the State of California.

Measure H also contains provisions that will impose a special tax of up to 15% on all medical marijuana sales and
manufacturing within the City. The amount of the special tax may be periodically adjusted by the City Council but cannot
exceed 15% without a vote of the people. The proceeds of the special tax will be used solely to raise revenue to reduce
City business and residential sewer service charges. Since the Measure proposes to impose a special tax, a 2/3 vote in
favor of the Measure is required for the ordinance to become effective. Medical maryuana dispensaries, cultivation,
delivery, transportation, manufacturing and related businesses will not be allowed in Colfax unless the special tax is
approved.

A "Yes" vote on Measure H is a vote to adopt the proposed ordinance and allow medical maryuana dispensaries,
cultivation, delivery, transportation, manufacturing and related businesses to be permitted in Colfax and a special sales tax
of up to 15% to be imposed on medical maryuana sales and manufacturing. The proceeds of the special sales tax will be
used to reduce City business and residential sewer service charges.

A "No" vote on Measure H is a vote to reject the proposed ordinance and continue the current prohibition of medical
marijuana dispensaries in Colfax.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure H. If you desire a copy of the ordinance, please call the Colfax City
Clerk's office at (530) 346-3213 and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you.

H-l

Argument In favor of Measure H

Dedicating a Revenue Tax on MEDICAL Cannabis Dispensaries for Assistance with Residents' Sewer Bills

With the passage of the Compassionate Use Act, MEDICAL cannabis has been legal in CA since 1996.

Over the last two decades, MEDICAL cannabis has trended towards lower THC (psychoactive) varieties that deliver higher
doses of other non-psychoactive elements demonstrated to be effective in treating anorexia, arthritis, cancer, chronic pain,
glaucoma, migraine headaches, severe nausea and seizures.

MEDICAL cannabis is not new to Colfax. The city had a dispensary for eight years with absolutely no problems or complaints
according to official county and city records.

With Measure H, the city proposes to allow a maximum of three MEDICAL cannabis dispensaries, charge a special tax of up
to 15% of gross revenue and to use that revenue to help residents lower their sewer bills.

Measure H will allow Colfax to participate in the generally recognized thriving Medical cannabis economy in Placer County
via local taxation of dispensaries, while regulating all aspects of MEDICAL cannabis in Colfax through a local ordinance
written to comply with state law.

No other source of funding has ever been identified by Colfax City Hall for sewer rate reduction.

Tom Parnham	Foxey McCleary	Belinda Brewer	Linda Louise Haines

Mayor, City of Colfax	Concerned Citizen, Colfax	Concerned Citizen	Concerned Citizen

Argument against Measure H

No argument against Measure H was filed.

H-2