From Contra Costa County Elections Division Website:

Measure X

Contra Costa Transportation Authority

Measure Wording

To implement a Transportation Expenditure Plan to continue:

•	Repairing potholes/fixing roads;

•	Improving BART capacity/reliability

•	Improving Highways 680, 80, 24, and 4;

•	Enhancing bus/transit including for seniors and people with disabilities;

•	Increasing bicycle/pedestrian safey;

•	Improving air quality;

•	Reducing traffic;

shall voters adopt the ordinance augmenting the sales tax by 14 raising ninety-seven million
dollars for transportation improvments annually for 30 years with independant oversight, audits,
and all money benefitting local residents?

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE X

The governing body of the Contra Costa Transportation Authority (“CCTA”) has proposed a
measure asking voters to approve an additional one-half of one percent (0.5%) retail transactions
and use tax - a sales tax - to fund certain transportation improvements in Contra Costa County.

The sales tax would be collected in the incorporated and unincorporated areas of Contra Costa
County, from April 1, 2017, until March 31, 2047. The proceeds from this sales tax would
supplement CCTA’s existing one-half of one percent (0.5%) sales tax, which will continue to be
collected until March 31, 2034.

According to the measure, proceeds from the sales tax would be used to “implement a
Transportation Expenditure Plan to continue repairing potholes/fixing roads; improving BART
capacity/reliability; improving Highways 680, 80, 24, and 4; enhancing bus/transit including for
seniors and people with disabilities; increasing bicycle/pedestrian safety; improving air quality;
[and] reducing traffic.” Sales tax proceeds may only be used for the projects and purposes
specified in CCTA’s Transportation Expenditure Plan (“TEP”), which is included in the Voter
Information Handbook, and any future amendments to the TEP. According to the TEP, 26.79%
of the tax proceeds will fund BART, bus, ferry, and train networks; 23.79% of the tax proceeds
will fund fixing local streets and roads; 21.98% of the tax proceeds will fund building sustainable
communities and protecting the environment; 20.71% of the tax proceeds will fund reducing
congestion and smoothing traffic; 6.23% of the tax proceeds will fund transportation for
children, seniors, and people with disabilities; and 0.5% of the tax proceeds will fund
administrative costs.

Approval of this measure also would authorize CCTA to issue limited tax bonds to finance
projects described in the TEP. The maximum bonded indebtedness may not exceed the estimated
proceeds of the sales tax.

According to the TEP, CCTA’s Public Oversight Committee will provide oversight of all
expenditures of the sales tax proceeds and will report to the public. This committee will review
annual audits, the allocation of the tax proceeds, the performance of projects and programs in the
TEP, and compliance by local jurisdictions. Expenditures of sales tax proceeds also would be
subject to annual independent audits.

Two-thirds of those voting on the ballot measure must approve the measure for it to pass.

A “yes” vote is a vote in favor of authorizing this 0.5% sales tax.

A “no” vote is a vote against authorizing this 0.5% sales tax.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE X

Vote YES on Measure X to bring badly needed transportation improvements and Get Contra
Costa Moving again.

Measure X will:

•	Repair potholes and fix roads

•	Improve BART capacity and reliability

•	Improve highways throughout the county, including 4, 24, 80, and 680

•	Enhance bus and other public transit services for everyone, including seniors and people
with disabilities

•	Increase safety for bicyclists and pedestrians

•	Improve air quality

•	Reduce traffic on our roads and highways

Measure X builds on the success of earlier voter-approved transportation measures, which
brought us the fourth bore of the Caldecott Tunnel, BART extensions, car pool lanes on 80 and
680, and major improvements to Highway 4. Measure X means continuing to make major
improvements that smooth traffic flow and help people get around more easily.

Measure X generates $2.9 billion of local funding over 30 years that will help generate tens of
millions more in state and federal matching dollars for projects that we determine locally. Once
we secure the money, it can’t be touched by Sacramento or Washington.

Measure X is a robust plan to improve transportation, and incorporates strong accountability
measures to make sure the money is used as authorized by the voters. It requires independent
oversight and financial and performance audits, and every dollar raised by Measure X is required
to be spent to benefit local residents.

Every city in Contra Costa County voted to support Measure X Seniors, transit activists, taxpayer
advocates, business leaders, environmentalists and neighborhood leaders throughout Contra
Costa County all agree: vote YES on Measure X

Vote YES on Measure X: Get Contra Costa Moving!

http ://getcontracostamo ving.com/

Cecilia Valdez, Member, West Contra Costa Transportation Advisory Committee
Michael R. McGill, Past President, Contra Costa Taxpayers Association
Joseph A. Ovick, John Muir Land Trust Board Member
Kristin Connelly, President & CEO, East Bay Leadership Council
Candace Andersen, Chair, Contra Costa County Board of Supervisors

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE X

With traffic getting worse every day, politicians and bureaucrats are proposing to DOUBLE the
current V2 cent sales tax for 30 years-for transportation improvements.

We already pay an extra lA cent sales tax to fund local transportation improvements. That tax will
NOT expire for another 17 years, but these same politicians have already spent most of the future
money, using bond-financing schemes. They want to double-down on the failed strategies of the
past.

Measure X will weaken the Urban Limit Lines and promote development that adds to
traffic congestion and delays.

Measure X has no plan to relieve congestion.

Measure X’s promises are not binding and can be changed by claiming “unforeseen
circumstances.”

Measure X doesn’t protect transit funding, even though the tax falls most heavily on those
who need transit the most.

The Contra Costa Transportation Authority is rushing Measure X to the ballot instead of doing
the hard work of updating its strategic plan, as it promised in 2004’s Measure J. With 17 years
left on the current tax measure, what’s the rush?

Contra Costa needs a transformative 21st Century plan for mobility in the future. Measure X is
NOT that plan. Let’s not lock in a 1980’s approach for the next 30 years. We already know that
strategy didn’t work. Let’s do more to stop future congestion than iust watch it get worse.

We need to tell CCTA its plan is unacceptable. Let’s send the message that they can do better
and that WE DESERVE BETTER.

We need a smart plan that responds to the challenges of climate change and helps our
communities and our environment. Don’t we deserve to take the time to do it right?

Please join us in voting NO on Measure X

For more information: www.transdef.org/MeasureX

David Schonbrunn, President, TRANSDEF.org

Nadine Peyrucain, MSW, Retired Contra Costa County Employee

REBUTTAL TO THE ARGUMENT IN FAVOR MEASURE X

We’re seniors, transit activists, environmentalists, and taxpayer advocates-and we strongly
oppose Measure X.

Measure X would double the transportation sales tax to a whole cent, raising the sales tax rate in
some parts of Contra Costa County to 10% (among the highest in the state). But we’d still be
mired in traffic congestion.

They say they’re going to “Get Contra Costa Moving again.” But if they could actually “reduce
traffic on our roads and highways,” they’d have done it long ago.

We’ve seen these lists of promises before. The last one, 2004’s Measure J, hasn’t made a
difference. Traffic is still a mess and it’s getting worse. Doubling the tax to pursue more of the
same failed strategy is a dumb idea.

We’re already paying for Measure J through 2034. Measure X would add $2.9 billion atop
Measure J’s $2.7 billion.

Independent oversight and audits haven’t prevented bad judgment. The Contra Costa
Transportation Authority, the sponsor of Measure X, got entangled in interest rate swap
agreements with Wall Street, generating a potential future liability of $43.7 million,
approximately a half-year’s sales tax revenues.

We are citizen volunteers, doing our best to counter the millions of taxpayer dollars spent by
CCTA to sell this measure to the public. Please don’t buy their slick message!

Measure X is not going to “Get Contra Costa Moving again.” Back to the drawing board with
this measure! CCTA needs a fresh, creative response to the challenges of the future.

Vote NO on Measure X.

For more information: www.transdef.org/MeasureX and www.SavNOtoX.com

David Schonbrunn, President, TRANSDEF.org; Environmental Advocate; Transit Advocate
Nadine Peyrucain, MSW, Retired Contra Costa County Employee; Martinez Resident
Michael Arata, CC-COUNT Coordinator;|s_E_pjTaxpayer Advocate; Industrial Consultant; Former

Teacher and Coach; Danville Resident

Arne Simonsen, City Clerk, Antioch; Former Member, East Contra Costa Transit Authority; Past
President,[s.EPiEast Bay Division, League of California Cities

REBUTTAL TO THE ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE X

Yes traffic is getting worse, but rather than just kick the can down the road, a YES vote on
Measure X actually DOES things we really need: Fill potholes and repair our terrible roads, fix
our broken BART system and relieve overcrowding, protect valuable open space, synchronize
traffic lights, and provide more public transit options.

But wait, there’s more! Measure X means streets that are more walkable, more bikable, and safer
for everyone. Measure X also improves transit for seniors, for people with disabilities, and for
youth and school kids.

A YES vote on Measure X is the solution we need today.

How can you be sure Measure X will do what it says? Accountability is really important, so let’s
look at what the Transportation Authority has done with our tax dollars. Here’s the short list:

•	4th Bore of the Caldecott Tunnel

•	Highway 4 widening and safety improvements

•	BART extensions

•	1-680 widening and carpool lanes on 4, 242, 80, & 680

•	Iron Horse Regional Trail

•	Richmond Parkway

•	Paving and pothole repair in every city, town, and unincorporated area

•	Brought in millions in matching funds

We can’t say Measure X is perfect, but it builds on a proven record of success. It will improve
everywhere we drive, walk, ride, bus, and take BART, and it includes money for innovations like
driverless cars while making better use of existing technology. It helps get Contra Costa moving.
Please join us and vote YES on Measure X!

http://getcontracostamoving.com/

Amy R. Worth, Metropolitan Transportation Commissioner
John Gioia, Contra Costa County Supervisor
Dave Hudson, Chair Contra Costa Transportation Authority
Mary Nejedly Piepho, Contra Costa County Supervisor Dist 3
Dwayne Longmire, Councilmember