Ballot question

The following question appeared on the ballot:[i]

Shall the City of Greenfield Municipal Code be amended to add a
“Cannabis Business Tax” on cultivation, dispensaries, deliveries,
distribution, manufacturing, nurseries, testing, and transportation of
medical and nonmedical marijuana where legalized by state law; the
cultivation tax shall not exceed ($25.00) per square foot; a CPI may be
adjusted annually; all other cannabis activities shall be taxed at a rate n
to exceed (10%); generating an estimated $2 million annually with no
termination date?[2]

Impartial analysis

The following impartial analysis of the measure was prepared by the office

of the Greenfield City Attorney:

55

If Measure O (Cannabis Business Tax) is passed by the voters, it woulc
amend Title 5 of Greenfield’s Municipal Code to add Chapter 5.10,
establishing a new cannabis business tax.

The tax would apply to all persons and entities, including both for-profit
and non-profit entities, involved in cannabis-related business activities
within the City of Greenfield, including cultivation, transportation,
manufacture, storing or selling cannabis or any cannabis derivatives.
Cannabis also includes marijuana, as defined by California law.

The tax would not be imposed on persons engaged only in personal
medical cannabis cultivation, as defined, or, if nonmedical use becomes
legal in the state, to persons using nonmedical cannabis in accordance
with state law.

If approved, each business engaged in commercial cannabis cultivation
would pay an initial tax of $15 per square foot of canopy space authoriz
by City permit until June 30, 2020. Each year thereafter the tax would
increase by $5 per square foot, not to exceed $25 per square foot. Thei
beginning July 1,2023, the tax would increase annually by a CPI inflate

Each business engaged in commercial nursery cannabis cultivation woi
pay an initial tax of $2 per square foot of canopy space authorized by C
permit until June 30, 2020. Each year thereafter the tax would increase
$1.50 per square foot, not to exceed $5 per square foot. Then, beginnir
July 1, 2023, the tax would increase annually by a CPI inflator. A nursei
is a business that produces only immature plants, seeds or products us
specifically for the planting, propagation and cultivation of cannabis.

All other cannabis businesses would pay a tax of 5% of gross receipts f
fiscal year, or $50 per $1,000 of gross receipts. Beginning July 1, 2020,
the tax rate would increase automatically by 2.5% per year, not to excei
the maximum tax rate of 10% per year, or $100 per $1,000 of gross
receipts.

The proposed cannabis business tax is a general tax, the proceeds of
which the City could use for any legal municipal purpose. The tax woulc
be ongoing. This measure was placed on the ballot by the Greenfield C
Council. Article XI11(C), Section 2(b) of the California Constitution requir
that the electorate approve a new general tax by a majority vote before
the City can establish the new tax.

A “yes” vote would approve the ordinance that would establish a tax on
cannabis businesses.

A “no” vote does not approve the ordinance, and does not establish the
tax on cannabis businesses.[2]

—Greenfield City Attorneys

Gonzales City Attorneys