NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF HANFORD,
CALIFORNIA, DOES RESOLVE, DECLARE, DETERMINE AND ORDER AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. That pursuant to the requirements of the laws of the State of California relating to
General Law Cities, there is called and ordered to be held in the City of Hanford, California, on Tuesday,
November 4, 2014, a General Municipal Election for the purpose of submitting to the voters at the
General Municipal Election the following question:

Hanford Public Safety and Essential Services Measure	YES
To maintain/improve essential public safety and City services, including:	
•	Police and fire protection;  •	Neighborhood police patrols;  •	9-1-1 emergency response;  •	Gangs, drugs, youth violence prevention;	
• Property crime investigation; 8 Street paving/pothole repair; 8 Park maintenance; and 8 Other City services,	NO
Shall the City of Hanford enact a one-cent sales tax, for 20 years, with all revenue for City of Hanford, none for Sacramento, and subject to independent annual audits and citizens’ oversight?	

SECTION 2. That the proposed complete text of the measure to be approved is attached as Exhibit A.

SECTION 3.	That the ballots to be used at the election shall be in form and content as required by law.

SECTION 4.	That the City Clerk is authorized, instructed and directed to coordinate with the County

of Kings Registrar-Recorder/County Clerk to procure and furnish any and all official ballots, notices,
printed matter and all supplies, equipment and paraphernalia that may be necessary in order to properly
and lawfully conduct the election.

SECTION 5.	That the polls for the election shall be open at seven o’clock a.m. of the day of the

election and shall remain open continuously from that time until eight o’clock p.m. of the same day when
the polls shall be closed, pursuant to Elections Code § 10242, except as provided in § 14401 of the
Elections Code of the State of California.

SECTION 6. That in all particulars not recited in this resolution, the election shall be held and
conducted as provided by law for holding municipal elections.

SECTION 7. That notice of the time and place of holding the election is given and the City Clerk is
authorized, instructed and directed to give further or additional notice of the election, in time, form and
manner as required by law.