From City of Brentwood website:

Measure Z
City of Brentwood

Measure Wording

UTILITY USERS TAX. To maintain and enhance essential City services, such as fire and
emergency medical response, shall an Ordinance be adopted to enact a utility users tax on
telecommunications, electricity, gas, and cable television phasing in over two years (3% in 2017
and an additional 3% in 2018, for a total of 6%) to ultimately raise ongoing funding of
approximately $6.1 million each year?

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE Z

The Brentwood City Council has unanimously voted to put Measure Z on the November 8, 2016
ballot. The measure asks voters to approve an ongoing tax on electric, gas, telecommunication,
and cable utility services.

Under State law, the proceeds of the proposed utility user tax (UUT) may be used for any general
municipal service, including fire and emergency medical response.

If approved by a majority of Brentwood voters, the UUT will be three percent (3.0%) in 2017
and six percent (6.0%) in 2018 and future years. The UUT is expected to ultimately raise $6.1
million a year.

The UUT is calculated on the monthly utility use in the City of Brentwood. For
telecommunication service, the UUT applies to the place a phone is primarily used, typically the
billing address. The UUT is collected by utilities on utility bills, and then paid to the City.

The UUT does not apply to water, sewer or trash services; vehicle fuel; or solar power generated
and used at a private residence. Nor does it apply to internet access or to the purchase and
download of music, videos, games, or other digital products.

Low-income and senior customers registered for PG&E’s California Alternate Rates for Energy
(CARE) Program or another utility’s discounted rate program are exempt from the UUT.

The City Council must repeal the UUT if the share of property taxes distributed to the City and
special districts providing municipal services to the City (such as the East Contra Costa Fire
Protection District), is increased to provide additional money for those services in amounts
comparable to those provided by the UUT.

In addition, the City Council may reduce or repeal the UUT; but the City Council cannot
increase the UUT above six percent (6.0%) or apply it to new utility services without voter
approval.

Each year, independent auditors must review City spending of UUT proceeds; report at a public
meeting;

and post their report on the City’s website. In addition, the City must annually report, at a public
meeting and on the City’s website, how UUT proceeds have been spent.

A “yes” vote is in favor of adopting the measure. A “no” vote rejects the measure. If a simple
majority of votes are “yes,” the measure will take effect 10 days after the City Council declares
the election result. Utilities then have 90 days to begin collecting the tax.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure Z. If you desire a copy of the
measure and UUT Ordinance, you may view them at www.brentwoodca.gov. Alternatively,
you may contact the Brentwood City Clerk’s Office at 150 City Park Way, Brentwood, CA
94513; (925) 516-5440; or CitvClerk@brentwoodca.gov. and copies will be mailed at no
cost to you.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE Z

Please help make Brentwood safer by voting “YES” on Measure Z!

We are at risk. Service cuts by the East Contra Costa Fire Protection District have left
Brentwood with just ONE FIRE STATION and THREE FIREFIGHTERS on duty to protect
60,000 residents and $8 billion in property.

One station isn’t enough! When we call 9-1-1, firefighters should be there within 8 minutes.
Today, average firefighter response is almost 10 minutes. By that time, it may be too late to save
a heart attack victim or stop a fire from destroying our homes and businesses.

Measure Z will raise $6 million through a modest Utility Users Tax (UUT) - a tax that exists in
150 California cities. These funds can be used to open two more stations and put six more
firefighters on duty in Brentwood.

Two more fully staffed stations means firefighters will get to Brentwood emergencies faster and
with the right personnel and equipment.

This measure is:

FAIR: all residents and businesses will pay, not just property owners.

FEASIBLE: we could build two more fire stations faster than any other funding option.

REASONABLE: the UUT rate starts at 3% and is capped at 6%. Low-income and senior
households entitled to lifeline utility rates would be exempt.

RESPONSIBLE: the City Council must repeal this tax if the fire district gets more local property
taxes equal to UUT funds through a reallocation process.

Brentwood’s high quality of life is attracting more residents and businesses every year. This
growth means a greater need for public safety protection. We cannot afford to ignore our
dangerously slow 9-1-1 emergency response times.

We urge you to vote “YES” on Measure Z for Brentwood’s future! The undersigned
Proponent(s) or Author(s) hereby state that such argument is true and correct to the best of their
knowledge and belief.

Robert Taylor, Mayor, City of Brentwood
Dan Torres, Businessman / Resident

Emil Geddes, Board Member, Brentwood Union School District
Olga B. Vidriales, Businesswoman / Resident
George Schmidt, President, Summerset III HOA

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE Z

This measure purports to fund the East Contra Costa Fire District (ECCFPD), but does not even
mention the district, nor does it bind or legally require the City to fund the ECCFPD. This re-
gressive Utility User Tax:

Will impose an average household tax of $200 to $400+ and business tax of up to $1000
or more annually; it is clearly unaffordable for many residents.

•	Is a general purpose “slush fund” tax for the City of Brentwood, masked on the bills of
the targeted utilities - cable television, electricity, gas, water and sewer.

•	Will generate revenues that will be deposited into the city of Brentwood GENERAL
FUND for any use the city determines is necessary for its own needs.

•	Will not force the city to negotiate a promissory agreement with ECCFPD nor annually
fulfill its promise to fund the Fire District; the fire district’s budget forecasts will be
unreliable.

•	Is designed to avoid the 2/3 vote requirement of other tax measures tried in the past by
the ECCFPD, which failed.

•	Will burden all residences, businesses, non-profits, and other types of organizations
within the city, damaging the economy.

•	Will be dependent on the city’s financial condition, and on the city council’s judgment
and desire to satisfy their own perceived needs before it funds the fire district.

•	The Contra Costa Taxpayers Association strongly recommends a NO vote on this tax.

Contra Costa Taxpayers Association, Jack Weir, President

Contra Costa Taxpayers Association, Harold E. (Hal) Bray, East County Chairperson
REBUTTAL TO THE ARGUMENT IN FAVOR MEASURE Z

There is no question that the East County fire district is in financial trouble. Because of low
property tax revenues, the district has closed stations and reduced staff. Emergency response has
dropped to unsafe levels. However, the proposed utility user tax (UUT) is not the answer.

When the district was formed years ago, its service area was mostly orchards and cropland, and a
low property tax rate was sufficient. However, as the area has grown, property tax rates have not
kept pace, and the district now is allocated about half the average provided to other fire districts
in the county.

A utility user tax to fund general services like fire emergency is a bad approach. Under state law,
UUT revenues must go to the city’s general fund, and the city council may, at any time, direct
those funds as it wishes. The fire district needs a more predictable source of funding. Also,
district property owners already pay for fire service with their county property taxes, and should
not be double-taxed.

The East County Voters for Equal Protection group

(https://www.facebook. com/EastCountvVoters/1 has developed a plan that will reallocate county
property taxes more responsibly, and will provide more substantial and reliable funding, without
contributing agencies having to cut budgets or reduce services. These agencies, the county,
cities, schools, etc., need adequate emergency response, and should be able to manage
reallocation without undue difficulty. Only the political will to do what is equitable is needed.

CoCoTax urges a NO vote.

Contra Costa Taxpayer Association, Jack Weir, President
REBUTTAL TO THE ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE Z

Opponents ignore the fact that Measure Z works in tandem with Measure A, which provides
guidance to city officials on how to spend Measure Z funds. They also do not offer any practical
solution to address the public safety threat facing Brentwood. Nobody disputes FIREFIGHTING
and EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES ARE DANGEROUSLY INADEQUATE.

Measure Z would generate enough funding to add TWO ADDITIONAL STATIONS and 18
FIREFIGHTERS within our city to improve response times to fires and other

9-1-1 emergencies. These funds must go to Brentwood’s general fund and must be subject to
independent audits every year.

The claim that Measure Z makes the fire district’s budget unreliable is silly. Brentwood would
simply contract with the fire district for increased fire and emergency medical services.

The claim that Measure Z applies to water and sewer utility charges is also false. The tax does
not apply to these services.

The proposed tax rates are reasonable. Compared to utility taxes paid in 150 other California
cities, which go as high as 11%, Measure Z proposes a modest rate of 3%, increasing to 6% in
2018. The Brentwood City Council exempted low-income and senior customers from the utility
users tax, protecting those who cannot afford to pay.

If property taxes are reallocated in East County, MEASURE Z MUST BE REPEALED. Unless
and until that happens, Measure Z provides an immediate public safety solution for Brentwood.

Joel Bryant, Vice Mayor, City of Brentwood
Hugh Henderson, Fire Chief, ECCFPD
Mark Evenson, Chief of Police, City of Brentwood
Joe Weber, Planning Commissioner, City of Brentwood