Sonoma County, California, Hotel
Tax, Measure L (November 2016)

| Text of measure

Ballot question

The following question appeared on the ballot;!1]

// To address the impacts of tourists by investing in roads, emergency
response, workforce housing for families and veterans, water quality
protection, and other County services, shall Sonoma County increase the
transient occupancy tax from 9% to 12%, until repealed, and paid only by
guests staying overnight at lodging facilities within the unincorporated area,
in line with many neighboring cities and counties, providing $4 million
annually to local County services, subject to annual audits?!2]

Impartial analysis

The following impartial analysis of the measure was prepared by the office of the

Sonoma County Counsel:

tt Measure L asks voters whether the County should increase its transient
occupancy tax which is assessed on persons occupying lodging for a period
of thirty consecutive days or less. The tax applies to various types of
lodging, including vacation rentals, hotels, motels, recreational vehicle
parks, and campgrounds. The tax is collected by the lodging operator and
remitted to the Sonoma County Tax Collector.

For over two decades, the transient occupancy tax rate in the
unincorporated area of Sonoma County has been nine percent, or nine
cents on each dollar of the rate charged. If approved, this measure will
amend the current transient occupancy tax ordinance to increase the
transient occupancy tax rate in the unincorporated area of Sonoma County
to twelve percent, or twelve cents on each dollar of the rate charged.

The transient occupancy tax is a general tax. Revenues from the transient
occupancy tax rate increase may be used for general governmental
purposes, including those to offset the impacts of tourists, road
maintenance, emergency response services, fire safety, workforce housing
for families and veterans, water quality protection, and other County
services. In the past, approximately 75 percent of the amount collected has
been appropriated under the guidelines of the County Advertising and
Promotions Program.

State law permits a county to levy a tax on guests occupying temporary
lodging located in the unincorporated area of the county. This measure
would increase the transient occupancy tax rate only as to lodging in the
unincorporated area of Sonoma County. The measure would not change the
transient occupancy tax rate for lodging located within incorporated cities.
Transient occupancy rates currently applicable in the cities of Sonoma
County vary from nine to twelve percent.

The ordinance increasing the transient occupancy tax rate from nine to
twelve percent will become effective only if approved by a majority of those
voting on the measure.

A “yes” vote on Measure L will authorize the County to increase the
transient occupancy tax by three-percent increase as described above, and
the new tax rate would take effect on January 1, 2017.

A “no” vote will not increase the tax rate, and the County will continue to
collect the transient occupancy tax at its current rate.

The Sonoma County Board of Supervisors unanimously approved the
ordinance to increase the existing transient occupancy tax and voted to
place Measure L on the ballot for voter approval. The full text of Measure L
follows this analysis.Pi

—Sonoma County Counsel^

Arguments in favor

Official argument

The following official argument was submitted in favor of the measure:^

Sonoma County’s Transient Occupancy Tax (also known as “TOT” or “Tourist
Tax”) is charged only to guests who stay overnight in our hotels, inns, vacation
rentals, and campgrounds. This tax is one of the most direct ways for our County to
collect revenue from visitors, which helps address the impacts of tourism. Visitors
use our roads, emergency services, and other county services, and impact our
environment and natural resources, as they enjoy all Sonoma County has to offer.
Raising the TOT is a fair way to recover increased costs associated with visitor
stays in the County.

Measure L will not raise taxes for residents.

The County’s TOT rate has been 9% for over 20 years. Many local cities and
comparable counties have TOT rates (including tourism assessments for cities)
greater than the proposed increase. Measure L levels the playing field and will keep
the TOT rate equal to or below taxes in neighboring cities and counties such as
Napa County, San Francisco City and County, Sacramento County, Santa Rosa,
Healdsburg, Sonoma, Rohnert Park, and Windsor. These communities are
collecting their fair share and so should we.

Measure L reduces the burden on residents to pay for County services.

Measure L will generate an estimated additional $4 million a year. The Sonoma
County Board of Supervisors members have expressed their intent to allocate the
increased revenue in line with County policy to fix our roads, and to fund fire and
emergency services, workforce development, workforce housing, vacation rental
code enforcement, and water quality protection.

We enjoy the luxury of living in a world class destination. Let’s ensure that
distinction is protected by asking visitors to pay their share. Measure L keeps our
tourism industry competitive while addressing its impacts. Please join us in
supporting Measure L.ra

Arguments against

Official argument

The following official argument was submitted in opposition to the measure:^

Here we go again - - more taxes. This time the tax would come in the form of an
increase in the rate of tax on tourists and other out-of-town guests staying in hotels
and motels. The room rate would be increased from 9% to 12%. How much more of
a financial strain can the County put on tourists before they begin to say “Let’s go
somewhere else”? Let’s not find out. More importantly, this increase in the tax on
tourists would be a general tax, meaning that the revenue could be used for anything
the supervisors want. By far the biggest budgetary problem facing the supervisors is
the County employee pension problem. One year ago, an Independent Citizens
Advisory Committee on Pension Matters was formed to examine the pension
problem. The Committee noted: “The total annual cost of employee pensions is
approximately 36% of (the County’s) payroll, and career employees can take home
more in pension and Social Security benefits when retired than they took home
while working.” Meanwhile, the ever-increasing burden of County employee
pensions continues to eat into funds needed for such essentials as road repair and
public safety. As the Committee noted, what is needed at the Board of Supervisors
is “a higher sense of urgency in pension reform efforts to reduce costs, free
resources, and reduce risk.” Measures to increase general tax revenue, such as
Measure L, would only reduce that needed sense of urgency. That would head the
supervisors away from fiscal responsibility, which would be the wrong direction.
Vote no on Measure	L.w