Ballot question

The following question appeared on the ballot:[i]

To provide funding for local transportation improvements including fixing

44

potholes and maintaining local roads; reducing traffic congestion on
highways and local roads; providing seniors, disabled and veterans with
mobility options; improving pedestrian and bike travel; shall the Merced
County Transportation Authority enact a 1/2 cent sales tax, providing $15
million dollars annually for transportation projects for 30 years, that cannot
be taken by the State, with citizens' oversight, and requiring all money to
be spent entirely in Merced County?[2]

Impartial analysis

The following impartial analysis of the measure was prepared by the office of the

Merced County Counsel:

This measure proposes a 1/2 cent retail transactions (sales) and use tax
to supplement existing local revenue for local transportation purposes and
projects, for a period of 30 years (April 1, 2017 - March 31, 2047). This
measure would increase the sales tax rate by 0.5%.

The County now has a 7.5% state sales and use tax rate. California law
allows cities to impose additional sales tax rates up to a certain amount.
The cities of Atwater, Gustine, Los Banos and Merced have each adopted
an additional 0.5% tax.

The proposed measure is expected to generate a total of $450 million. If
this measure is approved, it may fund regional, local and alternative mode
projects, transmit and administration, as provided in the 2016 1/2 Cent
Transportation Sales Tax Measure Expenditure Plan (“Expenditure Plan”).
If this measure is approved, the ordinance cannot be levied earlier than
the first calendar quarter commencing more than 110 days after the
election.

Pursuant to Public Utilities Code section 180001(e), the measure requires
that the transportation revenues that are estimated to be generated must
be used to add to, but not replace, existing public and private funding for
transportation improvements in Merced County If this measure is
approved, the Merced County Association of Governments (MCAG) will
also be given the authority to bond and use other financing mechanisms
to finance capital outlay expenditures as provided in the Expenditure Plan
Administration, which will be paid with the proceeds of the transportation
sales tax. Pursuant to Public Utilities Code section 180250(b), the
maximum bonded indebtedness which may be outstanding at any one
time shall be an amount equal to the sum of the principal of, and interest
on, the bonds, but not to exceed the estimated proceeds of the tax, as
determined by the Expenditure Plan.

The measure establishes a Citizens Oversight Committee to provide input
on the Plan and to ensure funds are being spent in accordance with the
Plan, and will issue an Annual Report to provide review on how the
monies are being spent. The MCAG and Citizen Oversight Committee
meetings will be held in compliance with the Brown Act.

A “Yes” vote is a vote to approve the additional 1/2 cent tax for 30 years. A
“No” vote is a vote against the tax. In order for the Measure V tax to be
approved, it must receive a YES vote from 2/3 of the qualified electors

voting on the measure, or the measure will fail and the V2 cent tax will not
be imposed.[2]

—Merced County Counsel^

Supporters

The following individuals signed the official argument in favor of the measure:[i]

•	Kathleen Crookham

•	Jerry O’Banion

•	Barbara Matherson

•	Jim Cunningham

•	Daron McDaniel

Arguments in favor

Official argument

The following official argument was submitted in favor of the measure^]

Vote YES on Measure V to fix our local streets and roads, repair unsafe

LL

intersections and reduce traffic congestion on local highways.

Under Measure V, 99% of all the funding goes directly to transportation
improvement projects and can’t be touched by the State or Federal
government. Administrative costs are capped at 1% and a citizens’
taxpayer oversight committee will conduct annual financial and
performance audits to ensure our tax dollars are spent properly.

By passing Measure V we will qualify as a self-help county and be able to
secure matching Federal and State dollars at rates that can average as
high as nine-to-one on our investment.

Neighboring counties with programs like Measure V have secured billions
in state and federal matching dollars for their transportation projects.

Measure V is a smart investment in our quality of life. Our local streets
and roads are failing and we need to fix our roads now instead of waiting
years when it will just cost us more.

Vote Yes on Measure V to provide every Merced County community the
funding we need to: Fill potholes and repair and maintain local streets;
Reduce traffic congestion on roads and freeways; Improve bike and
pedestrian safety; Implement “Safe Routes to Schools” projects to keep
families and schoolchildren safe; and Improve safety at dangerous
intersections and stretches of highway.

Measure V also helps expand local transit services, and provides
improved transportation services for seniors, veterans and disabled
persons.

Measure V will allow us to widen and improve congested stretches of
Highways 99, 33, 59, 140, 152, 165 and more.

Republicans and Democrats, business and labor groups, farmers and
ranchers, and public safety officers all support Measure V.[2]

Opposition

Opponents

The following individuals signed the official argument against the measure:[i]

•	William J. Baker

•	Virginia Baker

Arguments against

Official argument

The following official argument was submitted in opposition to the measure:[i]

It’s unfair to ask County taxpayers to foot the bill for fees developers are
not paying for regional transportation projects. Forty-Four Percent (44%)
of the new tax would be accumulated to help fund regional transportation
projects to avoid and/ or fix traffic congestion resulting from new
businesses and housing projects within the Cities and County.

For over 20 years the Cities and County have collected Regional Traffic
Impact Fees from developers (commercial & housing) to be used for
regional transportation projects to help mitigate additional traffic resulting
from their developments. Recently the Cities of Los Banos, Merced and
Livingston have stopped collecting these fees from developers. It is likely
the city of Atwater will soon join the others. These actions discard the
policy in place for decades that new businesses and housing projects help
pay for their impact on the community.

The cancellation or suspension of collecting the fees from developers
means that in order to accumulate sufficient funds to match State funds to
construct regional transportation projects we taxpayers of Merced Cities
and County will have to pay for what developers will no longer pay.

This proposed tax is unfair to taxpayers of the Cities and County of
Merced. The taxpayers shouldn’t have to bear the burden of paying the
entire bill to fix traffic congestion caused by new businesses and housing
projects.

Do you think it is fair for taxpayers to pay the taxes that developers should
pay? If you don’t then vote NO on Measure Vl[2]