IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE G
CITY OF TRINIDAD

THE PROPOSAL: Measure G asks the voters whether the City of Trinidad
should extend its 0.75% (three quarters of 1%) increase of the transaction and
use tax rate (commonly known as the “sales tax") for an additional four years.
Voter approval of this Measure would continue the implementation of this 0.75%
tax as described below, for a period of four years only, effective April 1,2017
through March 31,2021.

HOW IT GOT HERE: The City of Trinidad first adopted a 1% increase in the
local sales tax by a majority vote of its citizens approving “Measure A" on April
13,2004, implementing the tax for a period of four years only. The tax first
took effect on January 1,2005, and expired on December 31,2008. The City of
Trinidad then adopted a %% increase in the local sales tax by a majority vote of
its citizens approving “Measure I". This %% tax took effect on April 1,2009 and
expired March 31,2013. It was renewed again as “Measure G" by the voters in
November 2012, and is scheduled to expire on March 31,2017.

HOW IT WORKS: The local sales tax in the City of Trinidad-including the
additional %% approved by the voters-is imposed only on (1) sales of most
retail goods that occur within the boundaries of the CityofTrinidad, or (2) certain
items (e.g., cars) purchased outside of the boundaries but only if the purchaser
lives within the boundaries of the City of Trinidad. The way it is imposed, what it
is imposed on, and the procedure for collecting it are all governed by state law. It
does not apply to items which state law exempts from sales tax.

HOW IT IS USED: The sales tax is a general tax; all revenue generated by the
local sales tax goes into the City's General Fund where it is used to fund essential
government services provided by the City. These services include, but are not
limited to, police and fire protection, street and public facilities, park, trail and
environmental maintenance and protection, and services provided by the Town
Office. Police and fire protection support services are also provided through
these funds to surrounding communities on a limited basis, the %% sales tax
generates approximately $100,000 per year to the City of Trinidad’s General Fund.

A “YES” VOTE MEANS: A "Yes” vote will continue the existing additional
%% local sales tax through March 31,2021.

A “NO” VOTE MEANS: A “No” vote will allow the additional Wo local sales
tax to expire on March 31,2017.

REQUIREMENT TO PASS: Measure G requires a majority (50% +1) of those
voting in order for it to pass.

FOR FURTHER INFORMATION: Go to the CALIFORNIA STATE BOARD OF
EQUALIZATION’S website at http://boe.ca.gov/pdf/pub28.pdf.

IF YOU DESIRE A COPY OF THE FULL TRANSACTION AND
USE TAX RATE RESOLUTION (No. 2016-05), PLEASE CONTACT THE
CITY CLERK'S OFFICE (409 Trinity St., 677-0223) AND A COPY WILL
BE PROVIDED TO YOU AT NO COST.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE G

Will you vote YES for continuation of Trinidad’s %% add-on sales tax? Your
instinct might be to vote NO, as “taxes are too high and we can’t afford more.”

But wait... we are residents like you, with similar feelings and reactions. We are
serving on your City Council because friends in town convinced us that the town
needs thoughtful guidance. We are not entrenched bureaucrats trying to preserve
our excessive salaries (of $50 per month!).

This sales tax add-on is paid primarily paid by tourists buying gas or taxable
items from the market (ie. on cigarettes and batteries; not food).

This tax provides nearly $100,000 of our $600,000 revenue. Our budget is lean
...there is no “fat"

Look around. Spend time with any of our employees and see how effective we
are.

Watch our City Clerk, or our public works guys, all of whom are professionally
trained and highly certified as water quality engineers. Follow our part-time City
Manager, or our 'A time records manager, talk to our grants administrator, most of
whose salary is paid by grants that she works on to improve our vital city services
(invisible except when they don’t work). Watch the exceptional skills of our Sheriff
(ask to see her reports of investigations and arrests).

If you've been around a while (like us), you've noticed that many government
services reduced in the past 40 years as the anti-tax wave has taken hold. You gel
what you pay for... just as true in your city services as in buying a dishwasher.

Vote YES to support YOUR town.

/s/Mayor Dwight Miller

/s/ Councilor (and former Mayor) Julie Fulkerson