ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE T

MEASURE T

TOWN ATTORNEY'S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE T

Measure T would (1) increase the Town's Transient Occupancy Tax (TOT)
on short-term rentals of 30 days or less, such as hotel rooms, from 10%
to 12% as of February 1,2017; and (2) clarify that the TOT is calculated
based upon the total rent paid by the guest, not on a discounted rate that
may be paid to a hotel operator by online travel companies or other third-
party booking agents. Measure T must be approved by a majority of the
votes cast on the ballot proposition.

TOT is often called a hotel tax and is paid by "transients" for the privilege
of renting hotel rooms or other lodging in the Town on a short-term basis
of 30 days or less. The Town's TOT also applies to short-term rentals
rented through rental operators and third-party booking services, including
online travel companies such as Expedia, Orbitz, Airbnb, and Vacation
Rental by Owner (VRBO), etc. TOT is calculated as a percentage of the
cost of the room or lodging.

If adopted, Measure T will adopt Ordinance 2255 and amend portions of
Chapter 25 Article III of the Los Gatos Municipal Code to increase the
Town's TOT imposed on the rent paid for short-term rentals from 10%
of the rent paid to 12% and to apply the TOT to the total rent paid by the
transient for the short-term rental. Measure T would also amend certain
definitions in Chapter 25 Article III of the Los Gates Municipal Code to
address online travel companies and other third-party bookings.

TOT is a general tax; the revenue raised from the tax goes into the Town's
general fund and may be used for any legal governmental purpose.
The general fund pays for Town services such as traffic safety, 911
response, police services, parks, trails, creeks, playground equipment
and restrooms, repairing potholes, beautifying Downtown and providing
general municipal services to the public. An increase in the TOT from
10% to 12% is estimated to generate an additional $350,000 to $400,000
in tax revenue per year. If this measure does not pass, the TOT will
continue to be collected at its current rate of 10%.

Ordinance 2255 was approved for placement on the ballot as Measure T
by the Town Council of the Town of Los Gatos on August 2, 2016. If
adopted, Measure T will continue in effect until repealed by the Town
Council or Town voters.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure T. If you
desire a copy of Ordinance 2255 or Measure T, please call the
elections official's office at (408) 354-6888 and a copy will be mailed
at no cost to you.

Robert W. Schultz
Los Gatos Town Attorney

The passage of Measure T will help our Town to build and sustain a strong
local economy and support public services throughout our community.

Measure T would raise Los Gatos Transient Occupancy Tax (TOT) from
10% to 12% of the cost of a hotel room. The TOT is a tax paid by tourists
and visitors who stay in our hotels and motels. Los Gatos residents do
not pay this tax unless they stay in a local hotel.

Visitors use our roads, parks and emergency services as they enjoy
all that Los Gatos has to offer; from the Farmers Market, to our parks,
to restaurants, shops and galleries throughout our vibrant downtown.
Raising the TOT represents a direct and fair way to recover the increased
costs associated with visitor stays in Los Gatos and would be the first
increase since 1983. This increase would still keep Los Gatos hotels and
motels competitive in the region, as the Los Gatos TOT rate would still
remain below or be on par with most of our surrounding municipalities.

The proposed increase achieves an important balance between
maintaining our competitiveness for tourism dollars, while providing
revenue for critical Town activities, lessening the impact of an economic
swing when the economy is down. Because none of the TOT money can
be taken away by the State, ALL of Measure T revenue will stay here in
Los Gatos.

Please join us in voting YES on Measure T, and help our Town build a
stronger local economy and protect important Town services.

Isl Lee Fagot
20 Year Resident

Isl Mark Robinson
Civil Engineer

Isl Jak Van Nada

Citizen Committee Member

Isl Steve Leonardis
Town Council Member

Isl Marico Sayoc

Town Council Member

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE T WAS SUBMITTED

PR-8495-1 ENG

SC Ballot Type 000 - Page 00

RESOLUTION 2016-043

RESOLUTION OF THE TOWN COUNCIL OF THE TOWN OF LOS GATOS
CALLING FOR PLACEMENT OF A GENERAL TAX MEASURE TO BE HELD AT
THE NOVEMBER 8,2016 GENERAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION FOR THE
SUBMISSION TO THE QUALIFIED VOTERS OF A PROPOSED ORDINANCE
AMENDING THE TOWN’S TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX (TOT) BY INCREASING
THE RATE FROM 10% TO 12% AND ADDRESSING ONLINE TRAVEL COMPANIES

AND OTHER THIRD PARTY BOOKINGS

WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 9222 and 10201 of the California Elections Code, the
Town Council has authority to place propositions on the ballot to be considered at a Municipal
Election; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Article III of Chapter 25 of Town of Los Gatos Municipal Code
(Section 25.20.010 through Section 25.20.080), the Town currently imposes a Transient
Occupancy Tax (“TOT”) at the rate of ten percent (10%) upon guests of hotels and other
transient accommodations within the Town; and

WHEREAS, the Town Council desires to amend the Town of Los Gatos Municipal Code
to increase the rate of the TOT from ten (10%) to twelve percent (12%); and

WHEREAS, the Town Council desires to amend the Town of Los Gatos Municipal Code
to allow for the imposition and collection of the TOT on the full rent charged to a guest for hotel
occupancy, whether the occupancy is booked directly by the guest, through the guest’s employer
or agent, or through online travel companies which enable guests to purchase occupancy via the
Internet, or by similar electronic means; and

WHEREAS, the TOT is a general tax the proceeds of which are deposited into the
Town’s General Fund. The General Fund pays for essential Town services such as police
protection, street operations and maintenance, library services, parks services and general
municipal services to the public; and

WHEREAS, on November 6, 1996, the voters of the State of California approved
Proposition 218 (California Constitution, Article XIIIC), an amendment to the State Constitution
which requires that all general taxes which are imposed, extended or increased must be
submitted to the electorate and approved by a majority vote of the qualified electors voting in the
election; and

WHEREAS, the amendments proposed in the attached ordinance which increase the rate
of the TOT constitute a tax “increase” subject to Proposition 218; and

1 of 5

August 2, 2016

WHEREAS, the amendments proposed in the attached ordinance which apply the TOT
rate to the total rent charged to a guest for occupancy in a hotel (including any retail markup and
other charges imposed through purchase of occupancy through an employer, agent or on-line
travel company) may also be characterized as an “increase” in the TOT under Proposition 218;
and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Proposition 218 (California Constitution Article XIIIC, §2(b)),
any election for the approval of an increase to a general tax must be consolidated with a regularly
scheduled general election for members of the governing body of the local government; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the Town of Los Gatos Municipal Code Section 2.30.010 and
Government Code Section 36503.5, general municipal elections in the Town shall be held on the
day of the statewide general election. Therefore, the next regularly scheduled General Municipal
Election for the election of members of the Town Council will be held on Tuesday, November 8,
2016; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to California Election Code 9222, the Town Council desires to
submit to the voters at the November 8, 2016 General Municipal Election one ballot measure
deciding whether an Ordinance shall be adopted to increase the rate of a general tax in the Town,
namely, the Transient Occupancy Tax from 10 % to 12%.

WHEREAS, pursuant to Government Code §53724 (“Proposition 62”), a two thirds
(2/3) vote of the Town Council is required to place the Measure on the November 8,2016 ballot.

NOW, THEREFORE, THE TOWN COUNCIL OF THE TOWN OF LOS GATOS,
CALIFORNIA, DOES HEREBY FIND, DETERMINE AND RESOLVE AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. Findings. The Town Council finds that all of the preceding recitals are true
and correct and are hereby incorporated and adopted as findings and determinations by the Town
Council as if fully set forth herein.

SECTION 2. By adoption of Resolution No. 2016-031 on June 21, 2016, the Town
Council has called and given notice of a General Municipal Election to be held on Tuesday,
November 8, 2016 in the Town of Los Gatos, County of Santa Clara, for the election of two
members of the Town Council for a term of four years.

SECTION 3. Submission of Measure. Pursuant to Government Code, §53724 and any
other applicable requirements of the laws of the State of California relating to general law cities,
the Town Council, by a two-thirds (2/3) supermajority vote, hereby orders the ordinance attached
hereto as Exhibit "A" and by this reference incorporated herein and made an operative part
hereof, to be submitted to the voters of the Town at the General Municipal Election to be held on
Tuesday, November 8, 2016. The full text of the ordinance shall not be printed in the voter ballot
pamphlet materials, but copies of the measure shall be available from the Town Clerk.

Resolution 2016-043

2 of 5

August 2, 2016

SECTION 4. The ballot proposition shall be presented and printed upon the ballot
submitted to the voters in the manner and form set forth in this Section 4. On the ballot to be
submitted to the qualified voters at the Town General Municipal Election to be held on Tuesday,
November 8, 2016, in addition to any other matters required by law, there shall be printed
substantially the following:

A'o maintain quality of life and small town character in Los Gatos by enhancing traffic safety and flow; maintaining 911 response, police services, parks, trails, creeks, playground equipment and restrooms; repairing potholes and Town facilities;	YES	NO
beautifying Downtown; providing general services, shall Los Gatos increase by 2% the short-term rental tax paid only by hotel/lodging guests, raising approximately $350,000 to $400,000 per year with published annual audits, fiscal oversight, and all funds spent locally for Los Gatos?/ £ nd	H Locfd5	

This question requires the approval of a majority of those casting votes.

SECTION 5. Conduct of Election. The Town Clerk is authorized, instructed and directed
to procure and furnish any and all official ballots, printed matter and all supplies, equipment and
paraphernalia that may be necessary in order to properly and lawfully conduct the election. In all
particulars not recited in this Resolution, the election shall be held and conducted as provided by
law for holding municipal elections.

SECTION 6. Notice of Election. Notice of the time and place of holding the election is
hereby given, and the Town Clerk is authorized, instructed and directed to give further or
additional notice of the election, in time, form and manner as required by law.

SECTION 7. Impartial Analysis. Pursuant to California Elections Code §9280, the Town
Council hereby directs the Town Clerk to transmit a copy of the measure as set forth herein to
the Town Attorney. The Town Attorney shall prepare an impartial analysis of the measure, not to
exceed 500 words in length, showing the effect of the measure on the existing law and the
operation of the measure, and transmit such impartial analysis to the Town Clerk within fourteen
(14) days following the adoption of this Resolution. The impartial analysis shall include a
statement indicating whether the Measure was placed on the ballot by a petition signed by the
requisite number of voters or by the Town Council. In the event the entire text of the Measure is
not printed on the ballot, or in the voter information portion of the sample ballot, there shall be
printed immediately below the impartial analysis, in no less thanl 0-font type, the following:
“The above statement is an impartial analysis of Ordinance or Measure “A”. If you desire a copy
of the ordinance or measure, please call the election official’s office at (insert phone number) and
a copy will be mailed at no cost to you.”

3	of 5

August 2, 2016

SECTION 8. Written arguments may be filed in favor or against the measures pursuant
to §9282 of the Elections Code. Rebuttal arguments may be submitted as provided for in §9285
of the Elections Code.

SECTION 9. Ballot Argument. Members of the Town Council are hereby authorized to
submit a ballot argument for the measure pursuant to Article 4 of Chapter 3 of Division 9 of the
California Elections Code.

SECTION 10. Rebuttal Argument. Pursuant to Section 9285 of the Elections Code of the
State of California, when the Town Clerk has selected the arguments for and against a Town
measure which will be printed and distributed to the voters, the Clerk shall send copies of the
argument in favor of the measure to the authors of the argument against, and copies of the
argument against to the authors of the argument in favor. The authors, or a majority of the
authors, may prepare and submit rebuttal arguments not exceeding 250 words or may authorize,
in writing, others to submit a rebuttal argument. The rebuttal arguments shall be filed with the
Town Clerk, accompanied by the printed names(s) and signature(s) of the person(s) submitting
it, or if submitted on behalf of an organization, the name of the organization, and the printed
name and signature of at least one of its principal officers, not more than ten (10) days after the
final date for filing direct arguments. Rebuttal arguments shall be printed in the same manner as
the direct arguments. Each rebuttal argument shall immediately follow the direct argument that it
seeks to rebut. All previous resolutions providing for the filing of the rebuttal arguments for
Town measures are repealed. The provisions of the Section 9 shall apply only to the Election of
November 8,2016 concerning the ballot Proposition set forth in this Resolution and shall then be
repealed.

SECTION 11. Pursuant to Elections Code Section 10002, the Town Council hereby
requests the Board of Supervisors of the County of Santa Clara to make available the services of
the Registrar of Voters for the purpose of performing the usual services necessary in the conduct
of the consolidated general municipal election, including the provisions of election supplies and
voters' pamphlets; and that upon approval of such requests, the Registrar of Voters of the County
of Santa Clara shall be reimbursed for all costs incurred by said services.

SECTION 12. Pursuant to Elections Code commencing with Section 10400, the Town
Council hereby requests the Board of Supervisors of the County of Santa Clara to order the
consolidation of the general municipal election to be conducted within the boundaries of the
Town of Los Gatos on November 8, 2016, with respect to which the Board of Supervisors of the
County of Santa Clara has the power to order a consolidation. The Town Council further
consents to and orders the consolidation of the general municipal election hereby called with the
statewide general election and acknowledges that the consolidated election will be held and
conducted in the manner prescribed in Section 10418.

SECTION 13. Other Acts. The Mayor and all other officers of the Town are hereby
authorized and directed, jointly and severally, to do any and all things, to execute and deliver any
and all documents that they may deem necessary or advisable in order to complete the process
for placing the proposition on the November 8, 2016 ballot.

4	of 5

August 2,2016

SECTION 14. Certification. The Town Clerk shall certify to the adoption of this
Resolution.

SECTION 15. Filing with County. The Town Clerk shall, not later than the 88th day
prior to the General Municipal Election to be held on November 8, 2016, file with the Board of
Supervisors and the County Clerk - Registrar of Voters of the County of Santa Clara, State of
California, a certified copy of this Resolution.

SECTION 16. Public Examination. Pursuant to California Elections Code §9295, this
measure will be available for public examination for no fewer than ten (10) calendar days prior
to being submitted for printing in the sample ballot. The examination period will end on the day
that is seventy-five (75) days prior to the date set for the election. The Clerk shall post notice in
the Clerk’s office of the specific dates that the examination period will run.

PASSED AND ADOPTED at a regular meeting of the Town Council of the Town of Los
Gatos held on the 2nd day of August, 2016 by the following vote:

COUNCIL MEMBERS:

AYES: Marcia Jensen, Steve Leonardis, Rob Rennie, Marico Sayoc, Mayor Barbara Spector

NAYS:	None
ABSENT:	None
ABSTAIN:	None



•R OF THE TOWN OF LOS GATOS
GATOS. CALIFORNIA

ATTEST:



CLERK ADMINISTRATOR OF THE TOWN OF LOS GATOS
LOS GATOS, CALIFORNIA

DATE:

The foregoing instrument is a
correct copy of the original
on file in this office
ATTEST: CLERK ADMINISTRATOR
TOWN OF LOS GATOS, CALIFORNIA

By CWLl;- S- y. JtlLkA-
Date	________

5 of 5

August 2,2016

Exhibit A

S\oA /

/ORDINANCE 2255

AN ORDINANCE OF THE TOWN COUNCIL OF THE TOWN OF LOS GATOS
AMENDING PORTIONS OF ARTICLE III OF CHAPTER 25 OF THE TOWN OF LOS
GATOS TOWN CODE TO INCREASE THE TOWN'S TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX
RATE FROM 10 PERCENT TO 12 PERCENT, ADDRESS ONLINE TRAVEL
COMPANIES AND OTHER THIRD PARTY BOOKINGS, AND MAKE OTHER
CONFORMING CHANGES SUBJECT TO APPROVAL OF A MAJORITY OF THE
ELECTORS VOTING ON THE TAX MEASURE AT THE GENERAL MUNICIPAL
ELECTION TO BE HELD ON TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 8,2016

WHEREAS, pursuant to California Revenue and Taxation Code §§ 7280 et seq., the
Town of Los Gatos ("Town") has the authority to levy a transient occupancy tax ("TOT") upon
the privilege of occupying a hotel, as defined in the Section 25.30.010 of the Los Gatos Town
Code, for a period of 30 days or less; and

WHEREAS, the TOT is a general tax the proceeds of which are deposited into the
Town’s General Fund. The General Fund pays for essential Town services such as police
protection, street operations and maintenance, library services, parks services and general
municipal services to the public; and

WHEREAS, the Town further desires to amend the Los Gatos Town Code to allow for
the imposition and collection of the TOT on the full retail rent charged to a guest for hotel
occupancy, whether the occupancy is booked directly by the guest, through the guest's employer
or agent, or through online travel companies that enable guests to purchase occupancy via the
Internet, or by similar electronic means;

WHEREAS, the Town wishes to increase its TOT from the existing 10 percent to 12
percent, subject to voter approval, for general purposes;

WHEREAS, the proposed TOT increase to 12% and other proposed TOT amendments
will be submitted to the voters at the General Municipal Election on November 8,2016.

NOW, THEREFORE, THE PEOPLE OF THE TOWN OF LOS GATOS AND THE
TOWN COUNCIL DO HEREBY ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION I

Los Gatos Town Code Chapter 25 Article III - Transient Occupancy Tax is hereby
amended to read as follows:

Sec. 25.30.010. - Definitions.

For the purposes of this article, the following words and phrases shall have

the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:

Ordinance 2255

1 of 4

August 2, 2016

Exhibit A

Hotel means any structure, or any portion of any structure, which is
occupied or intended to be designed for occupancy by transients for dwelling,
lodging or sleeping purposes, and includes any hotel, inn, tourist home or house,
studio hotel, bachelor hotel, lodginghouse, roominghouse, apartment house,
dormitory, public or private club, mobile home or house trailer at a fixed location,
or other similar structure or portion thereof.

Occupancy means the use or possession, or the right to the use or
possession, of any room or rooms or portion thereof, in any hotel for dwelling,
lodging or sleeping purposes.

Operator means the person who is proprietor of the hotel, whether in the
capacity of owner, lessee, sublessee, mortgagee in possession, licensee, or any
other capacity. Where the operator performs the operator's functions through a
managing or booking agent of any type or character other than an employee,
including hut not limited to an online travel company the managing/booking agent
shall also be deemed an operator for the purposes of this article, and shall have the
same duties and liabilities as the managing agent's principal. Compliance with the
provisions of this article by either the principal or the managing/booking agent
shall, however, be considered to be compliance by both.

Online Travel Company means any person, whether operating for profit or
not for profit, winch enables transients to purchase occupancy of space in a hotel
via the Internet, or bv similar electronic means.

Person means any individual, firm, partnership, joint venture, association,
social club, fraternal organization, joint stock company, corporation, estate, trust,
business trust, receiver, trustee, syndicate, or any other group or combination
acting as a unit.

Rent means the total consideration charged, to the transient, (including but
not limited to, room rates, service charges, retail markup, commissions,
processing fees, cancellation charges, attrition fees or online hooking fees).
whether or not received, for the occupancy of space in a hotel, valued in money,
whether to be received in money, goods, labor or otherwise, including all receipts,
cash, credits and property and services of any kind or nature, without any
deduction therefrom whatsoever.

Tax Administrator means the Finance Director of the Town.

Transient means any person who exercises occupancy or is entitled to
occupancy by reason of concession, permit, right of access, license or other
agreement for a period of thirty (30) consecutive calendar days or less, counting
portion of calendar days as full days. Any such person so occupying space in a
hotel shall be deemed to be a transient until the period of thirty (30) days has
expired, unless there is an agreement in writing between the operator and the

Ordinance 2255

2	of 4

August 2,2016

Exhibit A

occupant providing for a longer period of occupancy. In determining whether a
person is a transient, uninterrupted periods of time extending both prior and
subsequent to the effective date of this article may be considered.

Sec. 25.30.015. - Tax imposed; when payable.

(a)	For the privilege of occupancy in any hotel, each transient is subject to and
shall pay a tax in the amount of ten twelve (+0 12) percent of the rent charged by
the operator. Such tax constitutes a debt owed by the transient to the Town, which
is extinguished only by payment to the operator or to the Town. The transient
shall pay the tax to the operator of the hotel at the time the rent is paid. If the rent
is paid in installments, a proportionate share of the tax shall be paid with each
installment. The unpaid tax shall be due upon the transient's ceasing to occupy
space in the hotel. If for any reason the tax due is not paid to the operator of the
hotel, the Tax Administrator may require that such tax shall be paid directly to the
Tax Administrator.

SECTION II

The Town Council finds and determines that the adoption of this ordinance is exempt
from the requirements of the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) per CEQA
Guidelines under the General Rule (Section 15061(b)(3)), which sets forth that the CEQA
applies only to projects which have the potential for causing a significant effect on the
environment. It can be seen with certainty that the proposed Town Code text amendments will
have no significant negative effect on the environment.

SECTION III

If any provision of this ordinance or the application thereof to any person or
circumstances is held to be invalid, such invalidity shall not affect other provisions or
applications of the ordinance which can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application, and to this end the provisions of this ordinance are severable. The Town Council
hereby declares that it would have adopted this ordinance irrespective of the invalidity of any
particular portion thereof and intends that the invalid portions should be severed and the balance
of the ordinance be enforced.

SECTION IV

Except as expressly modified in this Ordinance, all other sections set forth in the Los
Gatos Town Code shall remain unchanged and shall be in full force and effect.

Ordinance 2255

3	of 4

August 2, 2016

Exhibit A

SECTION V

This ordinance relates to the levying and collecting of the Town transient occupancy tax
("TOT") and shall take effect only if approved by a majority of the voters voting on the measure
at the November 8, 2016 General Municipal Election and shall become effective ten (10) days
after the City Council declares and certifies by resolution the results of the election and that the
measure was approved by a majority of the voters voting thereon. This Ordinance shall take
effect thirty (30) days after its adoption.

SECTION VI

This Ordinance was passed and adopted by at least two-thirds vote by the Town Council
of the Town of Los Gatos at a regular Town Council meeting held on the 2nd day of August
2016.

COUNCIL MEMBERS:

AYES: Marcia Jensen, Steve Leonardis, Rob Rennie, Marico Sayoc, Mayor Barbara Spector

NAYS:	
ABSENT:	
ABSTAIN:	/  '

SIGNED:



.\qcrd

TOWN OF LO!

MAYOR OF TflF
LOS G^TOS,/CALlFORNlA

>ATE:	______

LOS GATOS

ATTEST:

CLERK ADMINISTRATOR OF THE TOWN OF LOS GATOS
LOS GATOS, CALIFORNIA

DATE:

The foregoing instrument is a
correct copy of the original
on file in this office
ATTEST: CLERK ADMINISTRATOR
TOWN OF LOS GATOS, CALIFORNIA

«W8!oi6

Date xlx'ltU* _________

REGISTRAR OF VOTERS

COUNTY Of SANTA CURA	4	0f	4

E -■ --ffldinance22SS	Deputy

August 2, 2016