BALLOT TITLE AND SUMMARY FOR
NEVADA CITY SPECIAL TAX MEASURE FOR
NOVEMBER 8, 2016 ELECTION

BALLOT TITLE: Nevada City Fire and Police Transactions and Use Special Tax

SUMMARY OF ORDINANCE 2016-02 OF THE CITY OF NEVADA CITY
IMPOSING A SPECIAL TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX TO BE
ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION

The approved ordinance adopts a special three-eighths (3/8) cent per dollar retail
transactions and use tax for the November 8, 2016 ballot that will become operative if
two-thirds (2/3) of the electors voting on the measure approve its imposition at that
election. By the express terms of the ordinance, use of all funds generated from this tax
is restricted to be used exclusively for professional fire and police protection purposes.

If approved by the voters, the tax will be administered and collected by the State Board
of Equalization. All revenues from this tax will be spent locally and expenditures will be
subject to required annual financial audits and review by an independent Citizens
Oversight Committee established to assure use for the intended purpose.

The tax was determined to be necessary to ensure that Nevada City’s Fire Station 54
can remain operational, continuing to provide essential fire protection, 9-1-1 response
and emergency medical services to the community, and to fund an additional Police
officer for dedicated patrol and crime prevention services. As provided in the ordinance,
it is intended that the revenues generated will provide the ongoing resources for Nevada
City to maintain and operate its own municipal fire and police departments to
adequately provide public safety for its residents and to participate in mutual aid
agreements with like agencies rather than one-time expenditures, so collection of the
tax will continue without any set term, subject to termination by a majority of the voters
at a future election called for that purpose.

The ordinance was passed and adopted by a unanimous vote of the City Council on
April 13, 2016 and, if approved by the voters, becomes operative the first day of the first
calendar quarter commencing more than 110 days after approval of the ordinance.

A copy of the full text of the ordinance is available for review at City Hall, 317 Broad
Street, Nevada City, CA 95959.

NEVADA CITY CITY COUNCIL

By: Corey Shaver, Administrative Supervisor

Reviewed and approved by: Hal DeGraw, Contract City Attorney

RESOLUTION NO. 2016-31

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF NEVADA CITY
CALLING AND GIVING NOTICE OF THE HOLDING OF A MUNICIPAL
ELECTION FOR SUBMISSION TO VOTERS OF A BALLOT MEASURE
RELATING TO A TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX FOR SPECIAL PURPOSES
AND REQUESTING CONSOLIDATION WITH THE STATEWIDE GENERAL
ELECTION TO BE HELD ON TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 2016

WHEREAS, Section 7285.91 of the California Revenue and Taxation Code
authorizes any city to levy, increase, or extend a transactions and use tax (“sales tax”)
for specific purposes at the rate of 0.125 percent, or a multiple thereof, if the ordinance
proposing that tax is approved by a two-thirds vote of the members of the City Council
and a two-thirds vote of the qualified voters of the City voting in an election on the issue;
and

WHEREAS, the City Council has so approved such a special tax ordinance and
desires to submit a ballot measure imposing that transactions and use tax to the voters
for their approval at an election called for that purpose; and

WHEREAS, Article XIIIC, Section 2(d) of the California Constitution precludes
imposition of any special tax unless that tax is submitted to the electorate and approved
by a two thirds vote; and

WHEREAS, a statewide general election is set for Tuesday, November 8, 2016,
in accord with California Elections Code Section 1000; and

WHEREAS, Council desires to call an election on the tax measure to be called
for Tuesday, November 8, 2016 and consolidated with the statewide General Election on
Tuesday, November 8, 2016, to be held and conducted in the manner prescribed for
consolidated elections in California Elections Code Section 10418:

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the City Council of the City of
Nevada City does resolve, declare, determine, and order as follows:

SECTION 1. A Municipal Election in the City of Nevada City is called for
November 8, 2016, to submit a ballot measure imposing a special sales tax of three-
eighths cent per one dollar to the voters for approval and, pursuant to California
Elections Code §§10400 et seq., it is requested herein that this election be consolidated
with the statewide General Election on Tuesday, November 8, 2016.

SECTION 2. Pursuant to Elections Code §1002, the Nevada County Board of
Supervisors is requested to authorize the County Clerk to render all services necessary
for the conduct of the election regarding the special tax measure and the City of Nevada
City hereby agrees to reimburse the County of Nevada for the costs of conducting this
election.

SECTION 3. As required by Elections Code §10403(a)(3), the City
acknowledges that the consolidated election will be held and conducted in the manner
prescribed in Elections Code §10418 and that in all particulars not recited in this
resolution, the election shall be held and conducted as provided by law for holding
consolidated municipal elections.

SECTION 4. Said proposition shall appear on the ballot for said municipal
election in the following form:

“To ensure Nevada City’s Fire Station remains operational, continues to
provide essential fire protection, 9-1-1 response, and emergency medical
services to the community, and to fund one additional Police Officer for
dedicated patrol and crime prevention services, shall the City of Nevada
City enact a three-eighths cent per one dollar transactions and use tax,
with all funds to be spent locally, and subject to required annual financial
audits and independent citizen oversight?

______________YES	 NO”

SECTION 5. The ordinance authorizing the special transactions and use tax to
be approved by the voters is as set forth in Attachment 1 hereto.

SECTION 6. The City of Nevada City agrees to reimburse the County of Nevada
for the City’s prorated share of the costs of the election.

SECTION 7. The City Clerk is hereby directed to cause notice of the measure to
be published in The Union, a newspaper of general circulation, at least one time not later
than one week before the election pursuant to §12111 of the California Elections Code.

SECTION 8. The proposition shall be submitted to the voters of Nevada City as
required by State Statutes approved by the voters of California in 1986 as Proposition
62, and in 1996 as Proposition 218, and in Article XIIIC, Section 2(d) of the California
Constitution, and as required by §7285.91 of the California Revenue and Taxations
Code.

SECTION 9. The sales tax proposed is for use exclusively for professional fire
and police protection purposes: including the operation, maintenance, and improvement
of fire and police facilities within the City; maintenance, replacement, and upgrading of
fire and police equipment; staffing and training of professional career fire and police
personnel and support staff; and expenditures necessary to support mutual aid from and
to like agencies in other jurisdictions in time of need, and for no other purpose and shall
be deposited into a special City fund for allocation only for those specific purposes.

SECTION 10. The transactions and use tax in the City shall be increased by an
additional 0.375 percent if two-thirds of the qualified voters voting on the proposition vote
in favor thereof.

SECTION 11. The polls for an election shall be open on the day of said election
in accordance with the California Elections Code.

SECTION 12. The election shall be held and conducted, election officers
appointed, voting precincts designated, ballots printed, polls opened and closed, ballots
counted and returned, returns canvassed, results declared, and all other proceedings
incidental to and connected with the election shall be regulated and done in accordance
with the provisions of law regulating the election as specified herein. The Board of
Supervisors of Nevada County, and the Nevada County Registrar of Voters, are hereby
requested to order the consolidation of the municipal election herein called with the
statewide general election to be held within the City on November 8, 2016, and the
Board and the Registrar of Voters are hereby authorized to canvass the returns of said
municipal elections and said municipal election shall be held in all respects as if there
were only one election and form of ballot provided for the general election. The County
shall certify results of the canvass of the returns of said municipal election to the City
Council which shall thereafter declare the results thereof. The measure submitted by the
Resolution shall be designated on each ballot by a letter printed on the left margin of the
square containing the description of the measure as provided by the California Elections
Code.

SECTION 13. All persons qualified to vote at a municipal election in the City
upon the date of the election herein provided shall be qualified to vote upon the
proposition submitted at said election.

SECTION 14. Ballots for the election shall be provided in the form and in the
number provided by law. On said ballot, in addition to any other printed matter which
may be required by law, two voting squares shall be set off to the right of the proposition
submitted at the election, one having the word “YES” printed before it, and the other
having the word “NO” printed before it.

SECTION 15. Each voter to vote for the proposition and for the Transactions
and Use Tax shall stamp or write a cross, or indicate by hole punch, or other means, in
the blank space opposite the word “YES" on the ballot to the right of the proposition, and
each voter to vote against the proposition and the increase to the Transactions and Use
Tax shall stamp or write a cross, or indicate by hole punch, or other means, in the blank
space opposite the word “NO” on the ballot to the right of the proposition.

SECTION 16. The City Clerk shall transmit, for receipt no later than 5:00 p.m. on
July 6, 2016, a certified copy of this Resolution, with Attachments, to the Nevada County
Board of Supervisors, County Clerk/Recorder - Elections Division, and to any other
appropriate office of Nevada County.

SECTION 17. The City Attorney is hereby authorized and directed to prepare an
impartial analysis of the proposition specified in this Resolution showing the effect and
operation of the measure. The analysis is to be submitted by the City Attorney to the
Nevada County Registrar of Voters, or other appropriate official for printing by no later
than 5:00 p.m. on August 12, 2016. The analysis shall not exceed 500 words in length.

SECTION 18. The City Council hereby authorizes the filing of a ballot argument
in favor of the proposition to be submitted to the voters at the general election as
permitted by law. Said argument shall not exceed 300 words in length. If a person
submits an argument against the proposition, the City Council authorizes the submittal of
a rebuttal argument not exceeding 250 words. The argument and rebuttal shall
otherwise conform to and comply with all applicable provisions of the California Elections
Code and be submitted by the deadline as required by the Nevada County Registrar of
Voters or other appropriate County official.

PASSED AND ADOPTED at the regular meeting of the City Council of the City of
Nevada City on the 22nd day of June, 2016, by the following vote:

AYES:	RAY, PHELPS,	ANDERSEN, BERGMAN

NOES:	NONE

ABSTAIN:	NONE

ABSENT:	STRAWSER

CITY ATTORNEY'S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF

MEASURE C

NEVADA CITY FIRE AND POLICE TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX

Prepared by the Contract City Attorney for Nevada City per Elections Code §9280

The City Council of Nevada City has placed Measure C -- a Measure Imposing a Special
Transactions and Use Tax — on the ballot.

Nevada City maintains its own fire and police departments, funded primarily from its general
fund. Need for a sustainable funding source to address a fire department staffing shortfall
occurred in April 2015 when Nevada County Consolidated Fire District ended an 11-year co-
staffing arrangement by withdrawing its 3 firefighters assigned to City Fire Station 54.
Attempts to operate with remaining staff and rolling days off adversely affected response time,
causing the City to hire 3 new full-time firefighters to operate the station full-time, 24/7 with at
least 2 firefighters per shift, adding over $250,000 in annual operational costs. Pending a
permanent solution, the City used Measure L general sales tax revenues to cover the added
expense. That tax expires March 31, 2018, and use of those funds for fire services has put other
improvement projects on hold. Additionally, the City also identified unmet need for a
sustainable funding source for an additional police officer costing $120,000, and equipment,
training and facility costs.

Measure C, if passed by two-thirds of the voters, would impose a 3/8 cent per one dollar sales
tax estimated to raise $432,000 annually, with the proceeds estimated to be used exclusively
for professional fire and police protection purposes: including the operation, maintenance, and
improvement of fire and police facilities within the City; maintenance, replacement and
upgrading of fire and police equipment; staffing and training of professional career fire and
police personnel and support staff; and expenditures necessary to support mutual aid from and
to like agencies in other jurisdictions.

If adopted, the measure would provide ongoing funding spreading the cost of fire and police
services to both the residents of Nevada City and others residing outside the city who shop and
make taxable retail purchases in Nevada City. The expenditure plan approved by the City
Council for the anticipated sales tax revenue includes costs for 3 firefighters, 1 additional police
officer, and police/fire equipment, training & facility maintenance. Tax proceeds will be
accounted for in a special fund, subject to an independent annual audit and review by a
citizens' oversight committee.

The Ordinance putting this measure on the ballot adopts various provisions required by the
State Board of Equalization, which will have the duty of administering and collecting the tax,
should the measure be adopted. That ordinance sets forth various exceptions to the
transactions and use tax as required by the State Board of Equalization.

If Measure C passes, the sales tax will take effect immediately, continuing indefinitely until
terminated by the voters at a subsequent municipal election.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure C prepared by the contract City
Attorney. If you desire a copy of the proposed ordinance, please call City Hall at (530) 265-
2496 and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you.

Revision dated: August 15, 2016

Harold E. DeGraw, Contract City Attorney
for Nevada City