Woodland, California, Sales Tax,
Measure F (November 2016)

Ballot question

The following question appeared on the ballot:m

// Shall Ordnance No. 1599 which would authorize the City of Woodland to
continue to collect an existing one-half cent sales tax for a period of twelve
years, and would not increase taxes, for general city services including, but
not limited to, street maintenance, parks and facility capital projects, and
public safety, be adopted? m

CITY ATTORNEY'S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE F

Measure F, if approved by a majority of the voters voting
on the measure, will continue for twelve years a one-half
cent sales tax previously adopted by City of Woodland
voters in 2006 (Measure E). Unless the extension is
approved by the voters, the existing one-half cent sales
tax will sunset and expire on September 30, 2018. If
Measure F is adopted, it will extend the one-half cent
sales tax until December 30, 2030.

Measure F proposes to raise revenue for general City of
Woodland purposes by continuing the current one-half
cent sales tax within the City of Woodland. The current
one-half cent sales tax generates approximately $4.5
million annually to the City. The tax would be paid in
addition to current state and local sales taxes and would
continue to be collected at the same time and in the
same manner as the existing sales tax.

State law allows the City to levy a transaction and use (i.e.
a “sales”) tax at certain rates, including a 0.5 percent rate
f the tax is approved by a majority of the voters voting
on the measure. The City Council of the City of Woodland
voted on June 21, 2016 to place Measure F on the ballot.

Measure F would continue the existing sales tax, which is
used for city services, programs, and facilities. Measure
F would maintain the overall effective sales tax rate in
the City of Woodland at 8.25%. Because this tax would

continue to be a “general tax,” the City would be able to
use the tax proceeds for any legal governmental purpose
without restriction. The City would not be legally bound
n any way to use the tax monies for any special purpose
or for any particular program or service.

The City would continue to be required to annually
prepare a detailed report of income and expenditures of
sales tax revenues and to present the report to the public
and to publish it in local newspapers.

1st Kara K. Ueda

Woodland City Attorney

The above statement is an impartial analysis of

Ordinance 1599, Measure F. If you desire a copy of

the Ordinance or Measure, please call the elections

official's office at (530) 661-5806, and a copy will be

mailed at no cost to you.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE F

YES ON MEASURE F.

A YES vote will reauthorize an EXISTING V2 cent sales
tax to continue to fund vital community needs including
street and road maintenance, parks facilities and capital
projects and public safety.

A YES vote on F will NOT result in any increase in taxes.
The cent sales tax is already being collected, and
has been since 2000. Measure F will merely extend the
sunset of the existing >2 cent sales tax for an additional
12 years.

The continuation of the existing cent sales tax will
allow the city to augment funding available for much
needed road repairs, and help pay-off the bonds used
to construct the Community and Senior Center. Measure
F will also continue to pay for ongoing maintenance and
repairs of facilities in our community and neighborhood
parks and at our public library, and will provide funding to
supplement public safety staffing and improve response
capabilities for police and fire calls for service.

Measure F will help the city sustain and expand services
without the need to increase taxes by enhancing our
investments in critical infrastructure and other programs
supporting economic development - resulting in new
jobs and increased revenues.

Woodlanders have a proud history of supporting our
community and a willingness to pay for what we need -
provided there is fiscal accountability. We will continue
to receive a detailed spending plan and an annual report
from the City on Measure F revenues collected and how
these funds are being spent.

A YES vote means that we are taking an active role in
protecting and improving our quality of life in Woodland.
Please join us in voting YES on Measure F.

Is/ Jim Hilliard, Mayor
Is/ Angel Barajas, Mayor Pro Tern
/s/Tom Stallard, Council Member
Is/ Marlin H. Davies, Council Member
Is/ Sean Denny, Council Member

CITY OF WOODLAND

MEASURE F
ORDINANCE NO. 1599

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF WOODLAND AMENDING SECTION 23-73 OF ARTICLE V OF CHAPTER 23
OF THE WOODLAND MUNICIPAL CODE TO EXTEND THE 1/2% TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX FOR GENERAL
PURPOSES, WHICH SHALL CONTINUE TO BE ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION

WHEREAS, pursuant to California Revenue and Taxation Code Section 7285.9, the City of Woodland (the “City”) has
the authority to levy a Transactions and Use Tax for general purposes; and

WHEREAS, a majority of the voters voting on the measure (Measure E) in the City approved a one-half of one percent
(0.5%) Transactions and Use Tax at an election held on June 6, 2006; and

WHEREAS, the City's Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance is found in Article V of Chapter 23 of the City's Municipal
Code; and

WHEREAS, Section 23-73 of Article V sets forth a “Termination Date” of September 30, 2018, at which time Article V of
Chapter 23 will be repealed unless an extension or re-authorization is approved by the voters of the City at an election
called for that purpose; and

WHEREAS, an extension or re-authorization of the City's Transactions and Use Tax will be submitted to the voters to
extend the “Termination Date” of Article V of Chapter 23 to December 31,2030; and

WHEREAS, approval of this Ordinance by the voters of the City of Woodland would not raise taxes but would extend
an existing tax.

NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF WOODLAND DOES HEREBY ORDAIN AS
FOLLOWS:

Section 1. Authority. The City Council enacts this ordinance in accordance with the authority granted to cities by
Article XI, Section 7 of the California Constitution.

Section 2. Amendment. The definition of “Operative date” and “Termination date” in Section 23-73 of Article 5 of
Chapter 23 of the City's Municipal Code is hereby amended to read as follows:

23-73 Definitions

“Operative date” means the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing more than one hundred ten
days after the later of the adoption of this article and the approval by the voters of the city of a measure approving the
imposition of a transaction and use tax; provided that, if the city shall not have entered into a contract with the State
Board of Equalization as required by Section 23-75 of this article prior to such date, the operative date shall be the first
day of the first calendar quarter following the execution of such a contract. If this amendment is approved on June 21,
2016, and the measure is approved by a majority of the voters voting on the measure at the November 8,2016 election,
the operative date shall be October 1,2018.

“Termination date” means December 31,2030, unless this Ordinance is extended or repealed by the voters at
a subsequent election.

Section 3. Spending Plan. The City shall prepare a detailed spending plan and report regarding the expenditure of any
proceeds from the taxes collected pursuant to Article V of Chapter 23 of the Woodland Municipal Code. The spending
plan and report shall be presented to the public and published in the newspapers.

Section 4. Approval by the Voters. This Ordinance relates to the levying and collecting of transactions and use taxes,
shall be submitted to the voters at an election to be held on November 8, 2016, and shall take effect only if approved
by a majority of the voters voting on the measure at the November 8, 2016 General Municipal Election. The Ordinance

5 7/40

57/40

shall then become effective in accordance with Section 23-73. Upon approval by a majority of the voters of the City
voting on this Ordinance, the Transactions and Use Tax set forth in Article V of Chapter 23 of the City's Municipal Code
shall be re-authorized and extended through and including December 31, 2030. The City Clerk is hereby directed
to publish this Ordinance at least once, within fifteen (15) days of its adoption, in a newspaper of general circulation
published and circulated in the City of Woodland.

PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City Council this 21st day of June, 2016, by the following vote:

AYES: Council Member Barajas, Denny, Hilliard, Marble and Mayor Stallard
NOES: None
ABSENT:	None

ABSTAIN:	None

/s/Tom Stallard, Mayor

ATTEST:

APPROVED AS TO FORM:

/s/ Ana B. Gonzalez, City Clerk

/s/ Kara K. Ueda, City Attorney

5 7/41

57/41