Siskiyou County, California, Sales Tax
for New Jail, Measure S (June 2016)

| Text of measure

Ballot question

The following question appeared on the ballot:^)

To pay for the servicing of the construction loan liability funding the construction
of the new County jail, shall the County of Siskiyou enact a half-cent sales tax for
the term of the construction loan, requiring an expenditure plan and annual audit
review to ensure funds are spent locally as promised for the benefit of constructing
the new County jail?

Impartial analysis

The following impartial analysis of the measure was prepared by the office of the
Siskiyou County Counsel:

On January 19, 2016, the Siskiyou County Board of Supervisors voted unanimously
to place Measure "S" on the June 7, 2016 ballot. If approved by two-thirds (2/3rds)
of the electorate, this Measure would authorize a one-half of one percent (0.50%)
transactions and use (i.e. "sales") tax within Siskiyou County and would be imposed
on retail transactions involving sale and use of personal property.

California Revenue and Taxation Code section 7285.5 authorizes the County to
levy a transactions and use/sales tax at a rate of one-half of one percent (0.50%) so
long as the tax is approved by at least two-thirds of the Siskiyou County Board of
Supervisors and two-thirds (2/3rds) of the voters voting in an election on that issue.

If approved, the sales tax would become effective on October 1, 2016.

The tax would be paid in addition to current sales taxes, and would be collected at
the same time and in the same manner by the State Board of Equalization, and
remitted to the County of Siskiyou for the specific purpose of servicing the
construction loan liability for the construction of the new County jail. The tax
would be in effect for the term of the construction loan financing the new County
jail project, and would then expire automatically at the end of the loan term, unless
extended by the voters.

All revenues raised by the tax would belong to the County and would not be shared
with the State or any other agency.

By placing Measure "S" on the ballot, the County complies with Article XIIIC,
section 2(d) of the California Constitution, which requires that an election be held

when a county board of supervisors seeks voter approval of a new tax for specific
purposes.

A "YES" vote on Measure "S" will authorize the sales tax.

A "NO" vote on Measure "S" will not authorize the sales taxAi

—Siskiyou County Counsel111