San Francisco Bay Restoration Authority

San Francisco Bay Clean Water, Pollution Prevention and Habitat Restoration Program. To protect
San Francisco Bay for future generations by reducing trash, pollution and harmful toxins, improving water
quality, restoring habitat for fish, birds and wildlife, protecting communities from floods, and increasing
shoreline public access, shall the San Francisco Bay Restoration Authority authorize a parcel tax of $12
per year, raising approximately $25 million annually for twenty years with independent citizen oversight,
audits, and all funds staying local?

Argument in Favor of Measure AA

Join Senator Dianne Feinstein and environmental, business and community leaders from
across Alameda County in voting YES on Measure AA for a clean and healthy San Francisco
Bay. This measure is critical to restoring wetlands and protecting wildlife habitat for future
generations throughout the Bay Area.

San Francisco Bay is a part of all of our lives - whether we live along the Bay; work there; walk,
jog, or visit parks along its shores; or simply appreciate it as we drive over a bridge. The Bay also
attracts tourists, supports commercial fishing and attracts quality employers to the region - all
of which help keep our economy strong.

But pollution and other problems have put the health of the Bay at serious risk. Fish in the Bay
are contaminated with harmful chemicals like PCBs, mercury and pesticides.

Measure AA will restore wetlands throughout the Bay Area, which provide habitat for fish and
wildlife and filter out pollutants from water to reduce toxins that threaten the ecosystem.
Wetlands also act as a natural barrier against flooding and provide urban recreational open
space, a resource we all cherish.

Voting YES on AA will:

•	Reduce trash, pollution and harmful toxins in the Bay

•	Improve water quality

•	Restore habitat for fish, birds and wildlife

•	Protect communities from floods

•	Increase shoreline public access

Measure AA includes important fiscal accountability protections:

•	All funds must stay in the Bay Area to be used only on local habitat restoration and
wildlife protection projects

•	An independent citizens' oversight committee will oversee funds to ensure they are
spent properly

•	Independent audits and annual public reports ensure transparency

Passing this critical measure will ensure that our children and grandchildren inherit a clean and
healthy San Francisco Bay. Join us—vote YES on AA to protect San Francisco Bay, our greatest
natural treasure, www.yesonaaforthebay.com

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE AA

Preserving the Bay and ensuring clean water are important; so are honesty and accountability.

Measure AA is more about filling politicians' pockets than it is about helping the environment.

Renters, homeowners and small business owners OPPOSE Measure AA because:

•	Measure AA doesn't nail down how money will be spent. In fact. Section 5.A. says the
Authority Board can "amend this measure by majority vote." This is like TAXPAYERS
WRITING A BLANK CHECK.

•	Measure AA ensures POLITICS, NOT SCIENCE, DRIVES DECISIONS. There is no
requirement for a scientific advisory board to evaluate proposed projects or assess
project accomplishments. Grants will be based on politics instead of objective priorities.

•	Measure AA is giving money to politicians that it TAKES FROM THE POOR. Google,
Facebook and Apple Computer would pay the same tax as the owner of a one-bedroom
condominium.

•	High property taxes DRIVE UP HOUSING COSTS FOR RENTERS AND HOMEOWNERS.
Many people are unemployed, underemployed, or financially stretched and CANNOT
AFFORD TO PAY MORE.

•	If this tax passes, politicians will ask for more -- but they DON'T WANT THE PUBLIC
HAVING A SAY in how their money is spent.

Our environment needs help, and we need to speak up for it. We need to speak up for

ourselves.

Measure AA doesn't help -- it's a sham. Demand accountability from politicians and VOTE NO!

Direct Argument Signers

For Measure AA

Argument in Favor

1.	Loni Hancock

State Senator

2.	Paul R. Kumar

Political Director, Save the Bay

3.	Scott Haggerty
County Supervisor

4.	Libby Schaaf
Mayor of Oakland

5.	Suzanne Lee Chan
Fremont City Councilmember

Argument Against

1.	Jack Weir

President, Contra Costa Taxpayers Association

REBUTTAL TO THE ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE AA

The argument against Measure AA is full of misinformation from a group outside
Alameda County. We have researched the facts:

Measure AA includes a detailed, equitable allocation formula that ensures Alameda
County will benefit. Half of Measure AA funds will be dedicated geographically, with $90
million guaranteed to the East Bay. The other half will be distributed on a competitive
basis throughout the Bay Area.

Measure AA requires that all projects competing for funding must demonstrate they
provide solid benefits in one of four program areas: Safe, Clean Water and Pollution
Prevention; Fish, Bird and Wildlife Habitat; Integrated Flood Protection; or Shoreline
Public Access. Every dollar will be spent making San Francisco Bay cleaner and healthier.

The baseline funding commitment of $1 per month that Measure AA levies on all parcels
represents the minimum we all can do to ensure the shared benefits of a clean and
healthy bay are preserved for our children and grandchildren.

This proposal is rooted deeply in environmental science. Measure AA's wetlands
restoration goals are based on scientific studies (baylandsgoals.org). Bay scientists and
wetlands engineers on the San Francisco Bay Restoration Authority's Advisory
Committee and Governing Board and preeminent scientific organizations - like the Bay
Institute and The Nature Conservancy - have endorsed Measure AA.

Join scientists, as well as environmental, community and business leaders, in voting YES
on Measure AA to protect the natural wonder of our region - the San Francisco Bay.

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT FOR MEASURE AA

We value clean water and a healthy environment, so we need to demand genuine protection
for them. Measure AA represents a lot of money, but very little will go to the wetlands. The
real goal of Measure AA is to raise a lot of money for politicians to spend any way they want.

Residents oppose Measure AA because:

GIVES A BLANK CHECK TO POLITICIANS.

•	There's no spending plan, only "example" projects.

•	No one really knows how money would be spent.

•	Measure AA gives politicians power to change the law, to spend money however they
decide.

TRUE COSTS ARE HIDDEN.

•	The Authority plans to issue $1.5 billion in debt, to be added to our tax bills.

•	Repaying this debt, with interest, would cost our children and grandchildren up to $3
BILLION.

FUNDS COULD GET TIED UP INDEFINITELY.

•	Wetlands restoration requires coordination among many agencies.

•	The San Francisco Bay is a jungle of jurisdictions and regulations.

•	Currently there is no plan to efficiently coordinate efforts among federal, state and local
agencies.

•	Reform must come first.

WETLAND RESTORATION INCREASES FLOOD RISKS.

•	Measure AA doesn't identify costs for flood mitigation.

•	Most money would be needed to build new levees, particularly in the South Bay.

•	All Bay Area taxpayers shouldn't pay for Silicon Valley's flood protection.

Saving the Bay is too important for us to get wrong. Measure AA is a joke.

Vote NO to tell politicians that you expect SMART PLANS and REAL CHANGE for your tax dollars.

Rebuttal Argument Signers

For Measure AA

Rebuttal to Argument Against

1.	Eric Swalwell

Member of Congress

2.	Bob Wieckowski

State Senator, 10th District

3.	Abel J. Guillen
Councilmember

4.	Michelle Myers

Director, San Francisco Bay Chapter Sierra Club

5.	Francisco DeVries
CEO, Renew Financial

Rebuttal to Argument in Favor

1.	Jack Weir

President, Contra Costa Taxpayers Association

EXHIBIT A

SAN FRANCISCO BAY RESTORATION AUTHORITY RESOLUTION NO. 13

CALLING SPECIAL ELECTION

Jhr.

SmI San Francisco Bay
Restoration Authority

Resolution #13

CALLING A SPECIAL ELECTION TO BE HELD
FOR THE

SAN FRANCISCO BAY RESTORATION AUTHORITY ON JUNE 7, 2016;

REQUESTING SERVICES OF REGISTRAR OF VOTERS;
REQUESTING CONSOLIDATION OF ELECTIONS; AND SPECIFYING
CERTAIN PROCEDURES FOR THE CONSOLIDATION ELECTION

WHEREAS, in accordance with Section 50075 et seq. of the Government Code, cities,
counties and districts in California have the authority to impose special taxes pursuant to the
provisions of Article XIIl-A of the California Constitution, subject to the approval of two-
thirds of the votes cast by voters voting upon the proposition;

WHEREAS, the San Francisco Bay Restoration Authority (“Authority”), a regional
governmental entity, is authorized pursuant to the aforementioned provisions of the
Government Code, as well as the San Francisco Bay Restoration Authority Act (Title 7.25 of
the Government Code, commencing with section 66700), to levy a parcel tax, subject to the
requisite Iwo-thirds voter approval, in the Counties of Alameda, Contra Costa, Marin, Napa,

San Mateo, Santa Clara, Solano, and Sonoma, and the City and County of San Francisco (such
nine counties, collectively, the “San Francisco Bay Area”);

WHEREAS, after years of study, the Authority has prepared the San Francisco Bay Clean Water,
Pollution Prevention and Habitat Restoration Measure (the “Measure”) in order to fund programs
that will:

•	Reduce trash, pollution and harmful toxins;

•	Improve water quality;

•	Restore habitat for fish, birds and wildlife;

•	Protect communities from floods; and

•	Increase shoreline access for public enjoyment and recreation.

Wl IEREAS, the Authority proposes to levy a special parcel tax of $ 12 per year for 20 years on
each parcel wholly or partially in the San Francisco Bay Area, subject to two-thirds voter
approval, to fund the programs identified in the Measure. Such a levy is anticipated to generate
approximately $25,000,000 a year to fund specific clean water, pollution prevention and habitat
restoration projects and other purposes, including, without limitation, the possible payment of
debt service on bonds issued by or on behalf of the Authority, all as set forth in the Measure;
and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Government Code section 66704.05, when the Authority proposes the
Measure to levy a parcel tax, the board of supervisors of the counties, including the City and
County of San Francisco, (hereafter, all references to “County” include the City and County of San
Francisco) in which the parcel tax is proposed, are required to call a special election on the
Measure.

Resolution #13

CALLING A SPECIAL ELECTION TO BE HELD
FOR THE

SAN FRANCISCO BAY RESTORATION AUTHORITY ON JUNE 7, 2016; REQUESTING

SERVICES OF REGISTRAR OF VOTERS;

REQUESTING CONSOLIDATION OF ELECTIONS; AND SPECIFYING CERTAIN
PROCEDURES FOR THE CONSOLIDATION ELECTION

NOW THEREFORE, THE SAN FRANCISCO BAY RESTORATION AUTHORITY
GOVERNING BOARD HEREBY RESOLVES, DETERMINES AND ORDERS AS
FOLLOWS:

FIRST: A special election is hereby called within each of the following nine Counties: Alameda,
Contra Costa, Marin, Napa, San Mateo, Santa Clara, Solano, Sonoma and the City and County of
San Francisco (comprising the entire jurisdiction of said Authority), which election is to be
consolidated with the general election to be held on June 7, 2016. As required by Elections Code
sections 13247 and 10403, the abbreviated form of the Measure as it shall appear on the ballot is
as follows:

San Francisco Bay Clean Water, Pollution Prevention and
Habitat Restoration Program.

To protect San Francisco Bay for future generations by reducing
trash, pollution and harmful toxins, improving water quality,
restoring habitat for fish, birds and wildlife, protecting
communities from floods, and increasing shoreline public
access, shall the San Francisco Bay Restoration Authority
authorize a parcel tax of $12 per year, raising approximately
$25 million annually for twenty years with independent citizen
oversight, audits, and all funds staying local?

Item 10, Resolution: Calling a Special Election

Resolution #13

CALLING A SPECIAL ELECTION TO BE HELD
FOR THE

SAN FRANCISCO BAY RESTORATION AUTHORITY ON JUNE 7, 2016;

REQUESTING SERVICES OF REGISTRAR OF VOTERS;
REQUESTING CONSOLIDATION OF ELECTIONS; AND SPECIFYING
CERTAIN PROCEDURES FOR THE CONSOLIDATION ELECTION

The Measure shall be voted on within the entire jurisdiction of the Authority, which pursuant to
the San Francisco Bay Restoration Authority Act (Act), comprises the nine Counties enumerated
above and referred to in the Act as the San Francisco Bay Area. A 2/3 vote of all votes cast on the
measure is required to pass the measure.

SECOND: The Registrar of Voters of each County in the San Francisco Bay Area is requested
to give notice of said election in accordance with law and to perform all other acts which are
required for the holding and conducting of said election.

THIRD: The Board of Supervisors of each County within the San Francisco Bay Area is hereby
requested to order the consolidation of the Authority’s special election with the other elections to
be held on June 7, 2016, to conduct such election in accordance with the requirements set forth in
Elections Code section 10418, and to provide the election precincts, polling places, and voting
booths which shall in each County be the same, and that there shall be only one set of election
officers in each of said precincts; and to further provide that the question set forth above shall be
set forth in each form of ballot to be used at said election. Said Board of Supervisors is further
requested to order the Registrar of Voters to: (a) set forth on all sample ballots relating to said
consolidation election, to be mailed to the qualified electors of the Authority, the question set
forth above and (b) provide absentee voter ballots for said consolidation election for use by
qualified electors of said Authority who are entitled thereto, in the manner provided by law.

FOURTH: Pursuant to Government Code section 66704.05, each County within the San
Francisco Bay Area shall use the exact ballot question, impartial analysis, and ballot language
provided by the Authority. If two or more Counties are required to prepare a translation of
ballot materials into a different language, the County that contains the largest population among
those Counties that are required to prepare a translation of ballot materials into the same
language shall prepare the translation and that translation shall be used by the other Counties, as
applicable.

FIFTH: Pursuant to Government Code section 66704.05, the Registrar of Voters of each
County within the San Francisco Bay Area shall mutually agree to use the same letter
designation for the Measure.

SIXTH: Each Registrar of Voters of each County within the San Francisco Bay Area is hereby
authorized and requested to canvass, or cause to be canvassed, as provided by law, the returns of
said special election with respect to the total votes cast for and against said question and to certify
such canvass of the votes cast to the Governing Board of the Authority.

Item 10, Resolution: Calling a Special Election

Resolution #13

CALLING A SPECIAL ELECTION TO BE HELD
FOR THE

SAN FRANCISCO BAY RESTORATION AUTHORITY ON JUNE 7, 2016;

REQUESTING SERVICES OF REGISTRAR OF VOTERS;
REQUESTING CONSOLIDATION OF ELECTIONS; AND SPECIFYING
CERTAIN PRQCEDURES FOR THE CONSOLIDATION ELECTION

SEVENTH: The clerk of this Board is hereby authorized and directed to certify to the due
adoption of the resolution and to transmit a copy hereof so certified to each of the Registrar of
Voters within the San Francisco Bay Area.

EIGHTH: The attachment to Resolution No. 14 shall comprise the full text of the Measure.

NINTH: The Authority recognizes that each County in the San Francisco Bay Area will incur
additional costs because of the consolidation of the election on the Measure with the June 7,
2016 election and agrees to reimburse each County for the “incremental costs” thereof, as
defined in Government Code section 66704.05(h). The Chair of the Authority is hereby
authorized and directed to expend the necessary funds to pay those costs.

PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Governing Board of the San Francisco Bay Restoration
Authority at its meeting on January 13, 2016, by the following vote:

AYES: Governing Board Members Hitt

NOES: Governing Board Members ____

ABSENT: Governing Board Members _

ABSTAIN: Governing Board Members

I, Kelly Malinowski, Clerk of the Governing Board of the San Francisco Bay Restoration
Authority, do hereby certify that the foregoing is a true and correct copy of the Resolution
adopted by the Governing Board of the San Francisco Bay Restoration Authority at its meeting
of January 13, 2016, which Resolution is on file in the office of this regional governmental
entity.	^



Dave Pine
Chair

Clerk of the Governing Board

Item 10, Resolution: Calling a Special Election

EXHIBIT B

SAN FRANCISCO BAY RESTORATION AUTHORITY RESOLUTION NO. 14
PROVIDING FULL TEXT OF MEASURE

Jh,\

W San Francisco Bay
Restoration Authority

Resolution #14

SPECIAL PARCEL TAX BALLOT MEASURE FOR VOTER APPROVAL:

THE SAN FRANCISCO BAY CLEAN WATER, POLLUTION
PREVENTION AND HABITAT RESTORATION MEASURE

WHEREAS, the San Francisco Bay (sometimes referred to herein as the “Bay”) is the region’s
greatest natural resource and its central feature and contributes significantly to the State’s
economic health and vitality. The Bay is a hub of interconnected open-spaces, watersheds,
natural habitats, scenic areas, agricultural lands, and regional trails;

WHEREAS, the San Francisco Bay and its wetlands, waterways and shoreline are a significant
part of the State’s coastal resources and a healthy Bay not only enhances the quality of life for all
Bay Area residents but is essential to support the state’s human and wildlife populations;

WHEREAS, the San Francisco Bay must be protected and restored so that current and future
generations may use and enjoy it;

WHEREAS, the restoration, preservation, and maintenance of the San Francisco Bay and its
wetlands, improvement of Bay water quality, provision of public access to the Bay shoreline, and
enhancement of shoreline recreational amenities for the growing population of the San Francisco
Bay Area are immediate state and regional priorities;

WHEREAS, wetland restoration in the San Francisco Bay is necessary to address the growing
danger that global warming and rises in sea level pose to the economic well-being, public health,
natural resources, and environment of the State. Tidal wetlands can prevent flooding and adapt
to rising sea levels;

WHEREAS, the protection and restoration of the San Francisco Bay require efficient and
effective use of public funds, leveraging of local funds with State and federal resources, and
investment of significant resources over a sustained period for habitat restoration on shoreline
parcels, parks, and recreational facilities, and public access to natural areas;

WHEREAS, in 2008, the State established the San Francisco Bay Restoration Authority (the
“Authority”) for the purpose of assisting in the restoration, enhancement, protection and
enjoyment of the wetlands and wildlife in the San Francisco Bay and shoreline, including raising
funds for programs that would protect and restore the Bay;

WHEREAS, the Authority is a regional governmental entity comprising the nine counties that
touch the San Francisco Bay: the Counties of Alameda, Contra Costa, Marin, Napa,

San Mateo, Santa Clara, Solano and Sonoma, and the City and County of San Francisco (such nine
counties, collectively, the “San Francisco Bay Area”);

WHEREAS, after years of study, the Authority has prepared the San Francisco Bay Clean Water,
Pollution Prevention and Habitat Restoration Measure (the “Measure”) in order to fund programs
that will:

•	Reduce trash, pollution and harmful toxins;

•	Improve water quality;

•	Restore habitat for fish, birds and wildlife;

•	Protect communities from floods; and

•	Increase shoreline access for public enjoyment and recreation.

WHEREAS, in accordance with Section 50075 et seq. of the Government Code, cities,
counties and districts in the State have the authority to impose special taxes pursuant to the
provisions of Article X11I-A of the California Constitution, subject to the approval of two-
thirds of the votes cast by voters voting upon the proposition;

WHEREAS, the Authority is authorized pursuant to the aforementioned provisions of the
Government Code, as well as the San Francisco Bay Restoration Authority Act (Title 7.25 of
the Government Code, commencing with section 66700), to levy a parcel tax, subject to the
requisite two-thirds voter approval, in the San Francisco Bay Area; and

WFIEREAS, the Authority proposes to levy a special parcel tax of $ 12 per year for 20 years on
each parcel wholly or partially in the San Francisco Bay Area, subject to two-thirds voter
approval, to fund the programs identified in the Measure. Such a levy is anticipated to generate
approximately $25,000,000 a year to fund specific clean water, pollution prevention and habitat
restoration projects and other purposes, including the possible payment of debt service on
bonds, all as set forth in the Measure; and

WHEREAS, the proceeds from the parcel tax will be spent only for local projects that directly
improve the Bay, and cannot be taken away by the State. The Measure also requires citizen
oversight, transparency, independent audits of all money collected and spent, and strict caps on
the amount that may be spent on project management and administration.

NOW THEREFORE, THE SAN FRANCSICO BAY RESTORATION AUTHORITY
GOVERNING BOARD HEREBY RESOLVES, DETERMINES AND ORDERS AS
FOLLOWS:

Section 1. Approval of Ballot Measure.

Pursuant to Government Code sections 50075 through 50077.5 and the San Francisco Bay
Restoration Authority Act (Title 7.25 of the Government Code, commencing with section
66700 of the Government Code), the Authority hereby adopts the San Francisco Bay Clean
Water, Pollution Prevention and Habitat Restoration Measure (the “Measure”) and approves
the placement of the Measure on the June 7, 2016 election ballot within the San Francisco Bay
Area. A full copy of the Measure is attached hereto.

Section 2. Tax Imposed and Rate.

Subject to two-thirds approval of the voters voting on the Measure, a special parcel tax (the
“Special Tax”) shall be levied in the amount and in accordance with the terms and procedures set
forth in the Measure, for a twenty-year year period commencing July I, 2017 and ending June 30,
2037. The Special Tax shall be levied at an annual rate of twelve dollars ($12) per parcel of
taxable real property (as defined in the Measure) wholly or partially within the San Francisco Bay
Area. The proceeds from the Special Tax shall be used solely to support the programs and
priorities and other purposes set forth in the Measure, including, without limitation, the payment
of debt service on bonds issued by or on behalf of the Authority for the purposes set forth in the
Measure.

Section 3. Method of Collection.

Subject to two-thirds approval of the voters voting on the Measure, the Special Tax shall be
collected by the Tax Collector of each county, including the City and County of San Francisco
(hereafter, all references to “County” include the City and County of San Francisco) within the
San Francisco Bay Area in accordance with the terms and procedures set forth in the Measure.

Section 4. Accountability.

The Authority’s levy, collection and expenditure of the Special Tax shall be subject to the
transparency, independent audit, and accountability measures set forth in the Measure, including
requirements that: (a) the proceeds of the Special Tax be used solely for supporting the programs
and priorities and other purposes set forth in the Measure; (b) the proceeds of the Special Tax be
deposited in a special account; (c) the proceeds of the Special Tax be spent only for projects in the
San Francisco Bay Area identified in the Measure and cannot be taken by the State; (d) an
independent, annual audit be conducted of all Special Tax proceeds collected and allocated under
the Measure; (e) an annual report be prepared showing both the amounts of Special Tax proceeds
collected and expended and the status of any project funded pursuant to the Measure; and (f)
annual audits and reports be submitted to an Independent Citizen Oversight Committee for review,
with its findings to be posted on the Authority’s website.

Section 5. Additional Action.

The Chair of the Governing Board of the Authority, or any of his or her designees, is
hereby authorized and directed to make any changes to the text of the Measure attached hereto,
to the abbreviated form of the Measure, or to the text of this Resolution or Resolution No. 13
(calling the special election), as may be convenient or necessary to comply with the intent of this
Resolution and Resolution No. 13 to place the Measure on the June 7, 2016 ballot, the
requirements of elections officials, or the requirements of the law; and to take or authorize any
administrative actions necessary to effectuate placing the measure on the ballot and
administering the said election, including without limitation, drafting the argument in favor of
the measure and fixing the dates on which arguments and rebuttals are due .

Section 6. CEQA.

Pursuant to the State California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines
section 15378(b)(4), adoption of this resolution to place the Measure, a government funding
mechanism, on the ballot for voter approval is not a project subject to the requirements of
CEQA. Prior to approval of funding of any projects pursuant to the Measure, any necessary
environmental review required by CEQA shall be completed.

PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Governing Board of the San Francisco Bay Restoration
Authority at its meeting on January 13, 2016, by the following vote:

AYES: Governing Board Members

NOES: Governing Board Members _____

ABSENT: Governing Board Members .

ABSTAIN: Governing Board Members

I, Kelly Malinowski, Clerk of the Governing Board of the San Francisco Bay Restoration
Authority, do hereby certify that the foregoing is a true and correct copy of the Resolution
adopted by the Governing Board of the San Francisco Bay Restoration Authority at its meeting
of January 13, 2016, which Resolution is on file in the office of this regional governmental
entity.

Dave Pine
Chair

Attachment to Resolution 14 of

Governing Board
San Francisco Bay Restoration Authority

Special Parcel Tax Ballot Measure for Voter Approval
The San Francisco Bay Clean Water, Pollution Prevention and
Habitat Restoration Measure

THE SAN FRANCISCO BAY CLEAN WATER,
POLLUTION PREVENTION AND
HABITAT RESTORATION MEASURE

The people of the San Francisco Bay Restoration Authority do ordain as follows:

Section !. Findings and Purpose.

Over the last century, landfill and toxic pollution have had a massive impact on San Francisco
Bay (sometimes referred to herein as the “Bay”). It is not loo late to reverse this impact and
restore the Bay for future generations. To meet that objective, in 2008, state law established the
San Francisco Bay Restoration Authority (the “Authority”), to raise and allocate resources for
the restoration, enhancement, protection, and enjoyment of wetlands and wildlife habitats in the
San Francisco Bay and along its shoreline.

The purpose of the San Francisco Bay Clean Water, Pollution Prevention and Habitat
Restoration Measure (the “Measure”) is to protect and restore San Francisco Bay to benefit
future generations by reducing trash, pollution, and harmful toxins, improving water quality,
restoring habitat for fish, birds, and wildlife, protecting communities from flood and increasing
shoreline public access and recreational areas.

Section 2. Funding of San Francisco Bay Clean Water, Pollution Prevention and Habitat
Restoration Expenditure Plan.

Subject to voter approval, the Authority hereby establishes a special parcel tax (the “Special
Tax”) the proceeds of which shall be used solely for the purpose of supporting the programs and
priorities and other purposes set forth in this Measure. The Special Tax shall be levied at a rate
of twelve dollars ($12) per parcel within the jurisdiction of the Authority, which consists of the
Counties of Alameda, Contra Costa, Marin, Napa, San Mateo, Santa Clara, Solano and Sonoma
and the City and County of San Francisco (such nine counties, collectively, the “San Francisco
Bay Area”). The Special Tax shall be levied annually for a total of twenty (20) years,
commencing July 1,2017 and ending June 30, 2037.

The Special Tax shall be levied on each parcel of taxable property within the San Francisco Bay
Area, and shall be collected by the tax collectors of each county (including the City and County of
San Francisco) in the San Francisco Bay Area (the “Tax Collectors”) at the same time as, and
along with, and will be subject to the same penalties as general, ad valorem taxes collected by the
Tax Collectors. The Special Tax and any penalty shall bear interest at the same rate as the rate for
unpaid ad valorem property taxes until paid. Any Special Tax levied shall become a lien upon the
properties against which taxes are assessed and collectible as herein provided. The Special Tax
shall appear as a separate item on the tax bill.

All property that is otherwise exempt from ad valorem property taxes in any year shall also be
exempt from the Special Tax in such year. The Authority shall adopt procedures that set forth
any clarifications and exemptions to address unique circumstances and any procedure for
claimants seeking an exemption, refund, reduction or recomputation of the Special Tax.

Section 3. San Francisco Bay Clean Water, Pollution Prevention and Habitat
Restoration Expenditure Plan.

The revenues from the Special Tax set forth in Section 2 above shall be used solely for the
purpose of supporting programs and priorities and purposes set forth in this Measure, including
the following:

A.	Program Descriptions

Under this Measure, the Authority may fund projects along the Bay shorelines within the
Authority’s jurisdiction, which consists of the Counties of Alameda, Contra Costa, Marin,
Napa, San Mateo, Santa Clara, Solano and Sonoma and the City and County of San
Francisco. The shorelines include the shorelines of San Francisco Bay, San Pablo Bay,
Carquinez Strait, Suisun Bay, and most of the Northern Contra Costa County Shoreline to the
edge of the Delta Primary Zone. These projects shall advance the following programs:

1.	Safe, Clean Water and Pollution Prevention Program

The purpose of this program to be funded under the Measure is to remove pollution, trash and
harmful toxins from the Bay in order to provide clean water for fish, birds, wildlife, and
people.

a.	Improve water quality by reducing pollution and engaging in restoration activities,
protecting public health and making fish and wildlife healthier.

b.	Reduce pollution levels through shoreline cleanup and trash removal from the Bay.

c.	Restore wetlands that provide natural filters and remove pollution from the Bay’s water.

d.	Clean and enhance creek outlets where they flow into the Bay.

2.	Vital Fish, Bird and Wildlife Habitat Program

The purpose of this program to be funded under the Measure is to significantly improve
wildlife habitat that will support and increase vital populations of fish, birds, and other
wildlife in and around the Bay.

a.	Enhance the San Francisco Bay National Wildlife Refuge, shoreline parks and open space
preserves, and other protected lands in and around the Bay, providing expanded and
improved habitat for fish, birds and mammals.

b.	Protect and restore wetlands and other Bay and shoreline habitats to benefit wildlife,
including shorebirds, waterfowl and fish.

c.	Provide for stewardship, maintenance and monitoring of habitat restoration projects in
and around the Bay, to ensure their ongoing benefits to wildlife and people.

3.	Integrated Flood Protection Program

The purpose of this program to be funded under the Measure is to use natural habitats to
protect communities along the Bay’s shoreline from the risks of severe coastal flooding
caused by storms and high water levels.

a.	Provide nature-based flood protection through wetland and habitat restoration along
the Bay’s edge and at creek outlets that flow to the Bay.

b.	Build and/or improve flood protection levees that are a necessary part of wetland
restoration activities, to protect existing shoreline communities, agriculture, and
infrastructure.

4.	Shoreline Public Access Program

The purpose of this program to be funded under the Measure is to enhance the quality
of life of Bay Area residents, including those with disabilities, through safer and
improved public access, as part of and compatible with wildlife habitat restoration
projects in and around the Bay.

a.	Construct new, repair existing and/or replace deteriorating public access trails, signs,
and related facilities along the shoreline and manage these public access facilities.

b.	Provide interpretive materials and special outreach events about pollution prevention,
wildlife habitat, public access, and flood protection, to protect the Bay’s health and
encourage community engagement.

B.	Additional Allocation Criteria and Community Benefits

1.	The Authority shall ensure that the Measure’s revenue is spent in the most efficient and
effective manner, consistent with the public interest and in compliance with existing law.
The Authority shall give priority to projects that:

a.	Have the greatest positive impact on the Bay as a whole, in terms of clean water,
wildlife habitat and beneficial use to Bay Area residents.

b.	Have the greatest long-term impact on the Bay, to benefit future generations.

c.	Provide for geographic distribution across the region and ensure that there are
projects funded in each of the nine counties in the San Francisco Bay Area over the
life of the Measure.

d.	Increase impact value by leveraging state and federal resources and
public/private partnerships.

e.	Benefit economically disadvantaged communities.

f.	Benefit the region’s economy, including local workforce development, employment
opportunities for Bay Area residents, and nature-based flood protection for critical
infrastructure and existing shoreline communities.

g.	Work with local organizations and businesses to engage youth and young adults and
assist them in gaining skills related to natural resource protection.

h.	Incorporate monitoring, maintenance and stewardship to develop the most efficient
and effective strategies for restoration and achievement of intended benefits.

i.	Meet the selection criteria of the Coastal Conservancy’s San Francisco Bay Area
Conservancy Program and are consistent with the San Francisco Bay Conservation
and Development Commission’s coastal management program and with the San
Francisco Bay Joint Venture’s implementation strategy.

2.	The Authority shall ensure that 50% of the total net revenue generated during the 20-year
term of the Special Tax is allocated to the four Bay Area regions, defined as the North
Bay (Sonoma, Marin, Napa and Solano Counties), East Bay (Alameda and Contra Costa
Counties), West Bay (City and County of San Francisco and San Mateo County) and
South Bay (Santa Clara County) in proportion to each region's share of the Bay Area's
population, as determined in the 2010 census, and consistent with the priorities set forth
in this section. As a result, each region will receive the following minimum percentage of

total net revenue generated during the 20-year term of the Special Tax: North Bay: 9%,
East Bay: 18%, West Bay: 11%, South Bay: 12%. The remaining revenue shall be
allocated consistent with all other provisions of this Measure.

3.	The Authority shall conduct one or more public meetings annually to gain public input on
selection of projects under this Measure. All actions, including decisions about selecting
projects for funding, will be made by the Authority in public meetings with advance
notice and with meeting materials made available in advance to the public.

4.	The Authority may accumulate revenue over multiple years so that sufficient funding is
available for larger and long-term projects. All interest income shall be used solely to
support programs and priorities set forth in this Measure.

5.	No Special Tax proceeds shall be used for campaign advocacy.

6.	No more than 5% of the Special Tax proceeds generated in any given fiscal year may be
used by the Authority for general government purposes in such fiscal year, including to
administer the projects funded under this Measure. Any unused funds may be carried
over for use in subsequent fiscal years.

7.	The Authority shall have the right, power and authority to pledge Special Tax proceeds to
the payment of bonds of the Authority or another public agency (including, but not limited
to, a joint powers authority created pursuant to Article 1 of the Joint Exercise of Powers
Act (Government Code Section 6500 et seq.)), and use Special Tax proceeds to pay debt
service on such bonds and the costs of issuance related thereto.

C.	Accountability and Oversight

In order to ensure accountability, transparency and public oversight of funds collected and

allocated under this Measure and comply with State law, all of the following shall apply:

1.	The specific purpose of the Special Tax shall be to support only programs and priorities
and other purposes listed in this Measure. The Special Tax proceeds shall be applied
only for specific purposes of this Measure and shall be spent only in accordance with the
procedures and limitations set forth in this Measure.

2.	A separate account shall be created by the Authority into which all Special Tax
proceeds must be deposited. The Authority shall commission an independent annual
audit of all revenues deposited in, and all expenditures made from, the separate
account and publish annual financial statements.

3.	All Special Tax revenue, except as set forth in Section 3.B.6 above, shall be spent on
projects for the benefit of the San Francisco Bay Area, and shall not be taken by the
State.

4.	The Authority shall prepare annual written reports showing (i) the amount of funds
collected and expended from Special Tax proceeds and (ii) the status of any projects or
programs required or authorized to be funded from the proceeds of the Special Tax, as

identified above. The report shall comply with Government Code section 50075.3, be
posted on the Authority’s website, and be submitted to the Bay Restoration Advisory
Committee, established pursuant to Government Code section 66703.7 (the “Advisory
Committee”), for review and comment.

5.	The Advisory Committee shall provide advice to the Authority on all aspects of its
activities under this Measure to ensure maximum benefit, value, and transparency.
Advisory Committee meetings will be announced in advance and will be open to the
public. The responsibilities of the Advisory Committee shall include, but shall not be
limited to: (a) advising the Authority about implementation of this Measure; and (b)
making recommendations regarding expenditure priorities under this Measure.

6.	The Authority shall appoint six members of the public to an Independent Citizens
Oversight Committee that shall: (a) annually review the Authority’s conformance with the
Measure; (b) review the Authority’s audits and expenditure and financial reports; and (c)
publish an annual report of its findings, which shall be posted on the Authority’s website.
The six members shall include residents of the North Bay, East Bay, West Bay, and South
Bay, as defined in Government Code 66703(a), who are experts in water quality, pollution
reduction, habitat restoration, flood protection, improvement of public access to the Bay,
or financing of these objectives. No person may serve on the Independent Citizens
Oversight Committee who (a) is an elected official or government employee, or (b) has
had or could have a financial interest in decisions of the Authority as defined by
Government Code section 87103 and the Fair Political Practices Commission.

Section 4. Establishment of Appropriation Limit.

Pursuant to Article XIII-B of the California Constitution and section 66704.05(b)(2) of the
Government Code, the appropriation limit of the Authority shall be set by the total revenues
actually received by the Authority from the proceeds of the Special Tax levied in fiscal year
2017-18, as adjusted each fiscal year thereafter for the estimated change in the cost of living,
population and number of parcels on which the Special Tax is levied (such estimate to be
determined by the Governing Body of the Authority and be conclusive for all purposes after
made). The appropriation limit may be further adjusted by any other changes that may be
permitted or required by Article X11I-B of the California Constitution.

Section 5. Amendments and Severability.

A.	The Governing Board of the Authority shall be empowered to amend this Measure by
majority vote of its members to further the purposes of this Measure, to conform the provisions
of this Measure to applicable State law, to modify the methods of levy and collection of the
Special Tax, or to assign the duties of public officials under this Measure.

B.	If any part of this Measure is held to be invalid for any reason, such decision shall not affect
the remaining portions of this Measure and the voters declare that they would have passed the
remainder of this Measure as if such invalid portion were not included.