BRISBANE SCHOOL DISTRICT

RESOLUTION 2015-2016, NO.VI
PROPOSING A SPECIAL TAX AND ORDER OF ELECTION

WHEREAS, the Brisbane School District (“District”) is charged with the responsibility for
providing a quality educational program by its residents and the state; and

WHEREAS, funding from the State of California has not kept up with the state’s analysis of
consumer prices since 1991; and

WHEREAS, the paucity of funds has required the District to cut many programs and services
which were available to all children in the past; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Trustees (the “Board”) believes that these programs and services are
essential to the provision of the quality education the Board is charged with providing; and

WHEREAS, the Board and the parents of the District have engaged in both cost cutting and
revenue raising activities to alleviate the District’s funding deficit but have been unable to
maintain the programs and services deemed essential; and

WHEREAS, Section 4 of Article XIIIA of the California Constitution and Government Code
Section 50079 authorize a school district, upon approval of two-thirds of the electorate voting on
the measure, to levy a qualified special tax for specified purposes following notice and public
hearing; and

WHEREAS, this Board believes that such qualified special tax is necessary to provide an
adequate educational opportunity for the students of the District; and

WHEREAS, the annual appropriations limit of the District should be raised concurrently to allow
the District to expend the amounts raised by said tax; and

WHEREAS, the Board has held a public hearing after due notice regarding the proposed
authorization of the parcel tax;

NOW THEREFORE, be it resolved that:

1.	The Board finds and determines that the foregoing recitals are true and correct; and

2.	This Board adopts a qualified special tax to alleviate the impact of Statewide budget cuts
and funding shortages and to support the educational programs for the students of the
District; and

Brisbane School District
Resolution 2015-2016, No. VI
Page 2

3.	Said qualified special tax shall be in an amount not to exceed one-hundred thirty-one
dollars ($131) per year assessed against each parcel of taxable land in the District; and

4.	A “Parcel of Taxable Real Property” shall be defined as any unit of land in the District
which now receives a separate bill of ad valorem from the San Mateo County Assessor’s
Office; provided that upon application, an exemption will be granted for parcels owned
and occupied as the principal residence of a person 65 years or older and, upon
application, a resident homeowner living on a multiple parcel lot (up to three parcels)
shall be deemed as owning one contiguous parcel for the purposes of this parcel tax. All
property which would otherwise be exempt from ad valorem taxes will also be exempt
from the imposition of this special tax.

5.	In connection with the proposal of said special tax, this Board further proposes to

increase the District’s appropriations limit per fiscal year in an amount equal to the levy
of special taxes for said year, as permitted by Article XIIIB, Section 4 of the California
Constitution.

6.	Said qualified special tax shall be in effect for six (6) years, beginning 7/1/2016 and
ending 6/30/2022.

Pursuant to Education Code Section 5303, the Board hereby requests that the San Mateo County
Clerk (“County Clerk”) submit to the voters of this District on May 3, 2016, the following ballot
measure:

MEASVRE__

Re-A nth orization/Replacem en t of Parcel Tax to	-

Maintain Reading, Art, and Music Instruction c

“Shall Brisbane School District renew its current parcel tax with an inflation increase by
levying a special tax of not more than $131 annually per parcel, an estimated $425,000, to U
provide teachers/instructional aides for reading, music, and art; providing exemptions for senior
citizens? Shall the annual appropriation limit be raised between 7/1/2016 to 6/30/2022 in an
amount equal to levy of said tax, with funds spent exclusively on Brisbane School District and
not used for any other purposes?,r

Brisbane School District
Resolution 2015-2016, No. VI
Page 3

(FULL TEXT)

Re-Authorization/Replacement of Parcel Tax to
Maintain Reading, Art, and Music Instruction

To maintain the exceptional public education offered by our schools, shall the Brisbane
Elementary School District renew its current parcel tax of $119 with a $12 inflation increase
by levying a special tax of not more than one-hundred thirty-one dollars ($131) per year per
parcel of land as of July 1 of each year (with exemptions for parcels owned and occupied by a
person 65 years of age or older, upon application, and with a partial exemption for resident
homeowners living on multiple [up to 3] parcels, and for certain property exempted by law), to
facilitate (1) providing a music teacher and an art teacher, (2) providing teachers and
instructional aides to assist and support students with reading and core academics; in
addition, if funds allow, (3) providing additional library and instruction resources to schools;
provided that none of the proceeds from this measure shall be used to pay for District
administration; in connection therewith, shall the annual appropriations limit of the District
be raised beginning July 1, 2016, and ending June 30, 2022, in an amount equal to the levy of
said tax for said year?

A parcel will be defined as any unit of land which now receives a separate tax bill from the
Assessor’s Office. All property which would otherwise be exempt from the property tax will
also be exempt from the imposition of this tax. An exemption from this special tax shall be
granted annually by the District on any parcel owned by one or more persons aged sixty-five
(65) or over on July 1 of the tax year who occupy said parcel as a principal residence, upon
application for exemption supported by proof of age, ownership and occupancy as the
principal place of residence: In addition, upon application for exemption supported by proof
of ownership and occupancy, resident homeowners whose lot includes up to three contiguous
parcels will be eligible for exemption from parcels additional to the one on which the resident
house is situated, in accordance with regulations adopted by the Board of Trustees.

7.	The San Mateo County Superintendent of Schools is hereby requested to prepare and
execute a Formal Notice of Parcel Tax Election and consolidation in order in
substantially the form attached hereto as Exhibit A (the “Formal Notice”), and to call the
election by causing the Formal Notice to be posted in every schoolhouse in the District
and at three public places in the District, in accordance with Section 5362 of the
Education Code no later than February 5, 2016, or to otherwise cause the notice to be
published as permitted by law. The Secretary of this Board, on behalf of and as may be
requested by the County Superintendent of Schools, is authorized to cause all notices
required by law in connection herewith to be published and posted, as the case may be.

8.	The San Mateo County Superintendent of Schools and Board of Supervisors of the
County are requested to order consolidation of the election with such other elections as
may be held on the same day in the same territory that is in part the same.

9.	That the authority for the specifications of this election order is contained in Section 5322
of the California Education Code.

10.	That this Resolution shall stand as the order to the County Superintendent of Schools to
call an election within the boundaries of the District on May 3,2016.

11.	That the Secretary of this Board is hereby directed immediately to send a certified copy
of this Resolution to the County Superintendent of Schools such that said Superintendent
receives it on or prior to February 5, 2016.

12.	That the Secretary of this Board is hereby directed to send a certified copy of this
resolution to the County Clerk no later than February 5, 2016.

13.	That the County Superintendent of Schools is hereby requested to deliver this Resolution,
which constitutes the order of election, and a formal notice of the election to the County
Clerk no later than February 5, 2016.

14.	That this Board requests the governing body of any such other political subdivision, or
any officer otherwise authorized by law, to consolidate partially or completely such
election and to further provide that the canvass be made by anybody or official
authorization by law canvass the returns of the election, and that this Board consents to
such consolidation.

15.	The Secretary of the Board is further directed to cause a copy of this resolution to be
published in The San Mateo Times once in accordance with Section 6061 of the
Government Code of the State of California.

16.	The President of this Board, or any member or members of this Board as the President
shall designate, is hereby authorized, but not directed, to prepare and file with the
Registrar of Voters a ballot argument in favor of the proposition contained in Section 6
hereof, within the time established by the Registrar of Voters, which shall be considered
the official ballot argument of this Board as sponsor of the proposition.

17.	If any section, sub-section, phrase, or clause of this resolution is for any reason held to be
invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portion of this
resolution. The Board declares that it would have adopted this resolution and each
section, sub-section, phrase or clause thereof irrespective of the fact that any one of more
sections, sub-sections, phrases, or clauses be declared invalid.

18.	Subject to voter approval, the San Mateo County controller is authorized to place the
special tax as a change on the tax roll commencing with the 2016-2017 fiscal year, and
the San Mateo County Tax Collector is authorized to collect the special tax at the same
time as and subject to the same penalties as general ad valorem taxes collected by the
Tax Collector. The tax and penalties shall bear interest at the same rate as the unpaid ad
valorem property taxes until paid.

19.	Subject to two-thirds voter approval and prior to adoption of a resolution levying the
qualified special tax in any given year, this Board shall conduct a public hearing on the
matter. Notice of the time, date, and place of hearing shall be published pursuant to
California Government Code Section 6061 posted at least twice in a newspaper of
general circulation in the District, posting shall commence at least fifteen (15) days
prior to the hearing. Following said hearing, this Board may adopt a resolution fixing
the amount of tax to be raised and the rates for each type of property. Any tax levied
shall become a lien upon the properties against which taxes are assessed and collectible.

20.	The collection of the qualified special tax provided for herein shall not decrease the
fluids available from other sources of the District in any period from the effective date
hereof.

PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Board of Trustees of the Brisbane Elementary School District,
San Mateo County, State of California, this 10th day of December, 2015, by the following vote.

AYES and in favor of said Resolution:	NOES	and	against	said	Resolution:

Trustees:	Trustees:

I hereby certify the foregoing is true and correct copy of the resolution duly and regularly
adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Brisbane Elementary School District at a meeting
thereof held on the 10th day of December, 2015, that the same now appears on record in my
office.

L6Q Tmqin

&

Dawn Cutiflf

tor&n lentfc

iZobgrr Pehvnfrf
Rotarm Hui

ATTEST

Exhibit A

FORMAL NOTICE OF PARCEL TAX ELECTION

NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN to the qualified electors of the Brisbane School District of
San Mateo County, California, that in accordance with the provisions of the Education Code, the
Elections Code, and the Government Code of the State of California, an election will be held on
May 3, 2016, for the purpose of submitting to the qualified electors of the District the proposition
summarized as follows:

Re-A uthorization/Replacem en t of Parcel Tax to
Maintain Reading, Art, and Music Instruction

“Shall Brisbane School District renew its current parcel tax with an
inflation increase by levying a special tax of not more than $ 131 annually per
parcel, an estimated $425,000, to provide teachers/instructional aides for reading,
music, and art; providing exemptions for senior citizens? Shall the annual
appropriation limit be raised between 7/1/2016 to 6/30/2022 in an amount equal to
levy of said tax, with funds spent exclusively on Brisbane School District and not
used for any other purposes?"

By execution of this formal Notice of Election the San Mateo County Superintendent of
Schools orders consolidation of the election with such other elections as may be held on the same
day in the same territory or in territory that is in part the same.

The County Superintendent of Schools in San Mateo County, by this Notice of Election,
has called the election pursuant to a Resolution and Order of the Board of Education of the
Brisbane School District adopted December 10, 2015, in accordance with the provision of
Education Code Sections 5302, 5325, and 5361.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this /6Tdav of ft b 2016.

San Mateo County, California