Ballot Question:

City of Davis Measure “C”

Shall Ordinance 2469 be adopted to add Article 19.04.100 to the Davis Municipal Code
to establish abusiness license tax on non-medical (recreational) marijuana
businesses within the city of no more than 10% of annual gross receipts of the
business, which is estimated to raise $200,000 annually if recreational marijuana sales
are legalized and the City amends zoning to authorize marijuana businesses within City
limits, and which will continue until repealed by City Council or city voters?

CITY OF DAVIS
CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE C

Measure C, if approved by a majority of the voters voting on the measure, will adopt Ordinance
2469 adding Article 19.04.100 to the Davis Municipal Code to establish a business license tax of
not more than 10% of the annual gross receipts of non-medical (recreational) marijuana
businesses, if such recreational marijuana businesses become legal and permitted in the City of
Davis. The City currently imposes a business license tax on businesses operating within the City
(Davis Municipal Code Chapter 19). Businesses pay this tax at different rates based on the type
of business being conducted.

If approved, Measure C would impose an annual business license tax of up to 10% on the gross
receipts of marijuana businesses, defined to include any facility, building, structure or location,
whether fixed, mobile, permanent or temporary, which plants, cultivates, harvests, transports,
manufactures, compounds, converts, processes, prepares, stores, packages, distributes, or
provides wholesale or retail sales of marijuana, excluding dispensaries that only provide medical
marijuana for medical purposes. Legal cultivation of marijuana for personal use is also excluded
from this tax. Measure C authorizes the City Council to set, by resolution, a lower tax rate, and
to increase such tax rate, so long as the tax does not to exceed the maximum rate of 10% per
year. Like the City’s existing business license tax, the business license tax on non-medical
marijuana businesses would be a general tax on legally operating businesses, meaning that the
revenue raised from the tax would go into the City's general fund and could be used for any legal
governmental purpose.

Existing State law does not currently authorize the sale of non-medical (recreational) marijuana,
and marijuana businesses are not currently permitted to locate or operate within the City under
the City’s Zoning Ordinance. If approved, Measure C would only generate business license
taxes on recreational marijuana businesses in the event recreational marijuana businesses become
legal under State law and the City amends its Zoning Code to permit or authorize legal
recreational marijuana businesses to locate and operate within the City. In this event, Measure C
is estimated to raise $200,000 annually.

Ordinance 2469 was passed and adopted and approved for placement on the ballot as Measure C
by the City Council of the City of Davis on February 16, 2016. If approved, Measure C will
continue in effect until repealed by City Council or City voters.

/S/

Harriet A. Steiner
Davis City Attorney

ARGUMENT IF FAVOR OF MEASURE C

Measure C would require any business that sells non-medical marijuana, if such sales are
legalized statewide, to pay a business license tax to operate in Davis. The tax would be
calculated based on the gross receipts of that business, up to a total of 10% of sales for
non-medical marijuana.

Currently, several other municipalities have local taxes on the books for the sale of
marijuana. It is our concern that if we do not also have local taxes in place, we could find
that our community becomes a destination for those seeking “low cost” marijuana. Also,
all businesses in Davis pay a business license tax based on gross receipts, so this
requirement is not an unusual cost of doing business.

As of this writing, several statewide campaigns are in process to place a ballot initiative
on the California November 2016 election to legalize the non-medical use of marijuana.
While it is not clear which initiative may make it to the voters, nor what the voters will
decide statewide, it is clear that it would be prudent to prepare for the possibility that
non-medical marijuana may be approved by the California voters in the future.

The City of Davis currently does not permit medical marijuana dispensaries to operate
within the city. Measure C does not propose to place a tax on the sale of medical
marijuana.

Let’s keep the playing field fair and make sure that any marijuana business that chooses
to locate in Davis in the future helps to fund general services in the city, such as public
safety, parks and infrastructure. Join us in voting YES on MEASURE C.

/S/

Dan Wolk, Mayor
Robb Davis, Mayor Pro Tempore
Brett Lee, City Councilmember
Lucas Frerichs, City Councilmember
Rochelle Swanson, City Councilmember

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE C

“WHEN IT COMES TO DRUGS, JUST SAY NO!”

That is what you need to consider when you vote on Measure C on June 7.

The Davis City Council has lost its way and in the city of a nuclear free zone, city of a toad
tunnel, and one of the most educated in America, they now want us to participate in the drug
business. Instead of leading us into a “Davis Drug Free Zone” they want to profit up to 10% tax
of the sales of marijuana businesses. That makes the city council a partner in the illegal drug
business. I hope you are just as outraged as we are and vote NO on Measure C.

If you vote YES on Measure C, you are telling the City Council that it is OK to get a piece of the
drug business and by doing so you are also approving the existence of marijuana stores for
recreational use in Davis. Currently we do not have them. Our city will become a magnet for
drug users and drug dealers. If you vote NO you send a message to the City Council to make
Davis a “Drug Free City”.

If our City participates in the drug business, can we tell the drug cartels in Central and South
America not to grow marijuana or bring drugs into this country?

Think about it. With your vote say: “When it comes to drugs, just say NO”

Vote NO on Measure C

/S/

Peter E. Drouboy, MD

Carolyn Pfanner, Concerned Citizen

Jose J. Granda, Professor

Sharon Rose, Concerned Citizen, Nancy Reagan Speaker 1982-95
Thomas Randall Jr., Davis Resident

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE C

The Davis City Council just continues to seek additional taxes by placing one measure on the
ballot after another year by year.

Now the city council has placed Measure C on the ballot as an excise tax on businesses that
would sell marijuana for recreational use which if passed would place the 9th or 10th tax
assessment that would go into effect citywide depending on whether or not Measure B also
passes as well as any statewide ballot measure to legalize the recreational use of marijuana the
future.

Davis is in the uncommon situation of already being an excessively taxed city and although a
marijuana tax like many other additional sin taxes i.e. on alcohol and tobacco products may
make sense in other jurisdictions but this proposal to the contrary just represents a continuous
problem of poor judgment by the city council regarding economic policy in Davis as it is so
excessively eager to impose new taxes as indicated by this action of placing Measure C on the
ballot.

The revenue collected from this excise tax would go into the city's general fund and would not
likely be spent on programs that should be a priority for such expenditures such as for
infrastructure maintenance and improvement needs i.e. streets etc. as has been the case in the
past with other allot measures proposing the same funding scheme as Measure O the 1/2 cent
sales tax increase of two (2) years ago in 2014.

Vote NO on Measure C as it represents the continence of poor economic policy in Davis.

For more information about the campaign against Measure C and to lend financial and vocal
support please log on to the following website address:

http://www.noparceltaxes.org

/S/

Thomas Randall Jr., Davis Resident

ORDINANCE NO. 2469

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF DAVIS ADDING
SECTION 19.04.100 TO THE CITY OF DAVIS MUNICIPAL CODE RELATED TO
MARIJUANA BUSINESS LICENSE TAXES IMPOSED FOR GENERAL MUNICIPAL
PURPOSES, SUBJECT TO THE APPROVAL OF A MAJORITY OF THE VOTERS
VOTING AT THE GENERAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION HELD ON JUNE 7,2016

WHEREAS, recently enacted state law, the Medical Marijuana Regulation and Safety Act
(“MMRSA”), authorizes and regulates a comprehensive medical marijuana industry, including
commercial cultivation, manufacturing, and distribution of medical marijuana; and

WHEREAS, in light of the MMRSA, the City Council recently adopted Ordinance No. 2469 in
order to retain local land use control over marijuana uses and authorize and regulate the limited
cultivation of medical marijuana by qualified patients and primary caregivers, subject to future
review and possible amendment; and

WHEREAS, there are currently numerous proposed and active voter initiatives regarding the
legalization, decriminalization and regulation of recreational marijuana use which are being
circulated for qualification to appear on the state ballot in the upcoming November 2016 general
election; and

WHEREAS, the growing statewide trend toward greater access and regulation of marijuana, both
for medical purposes and possible recreational uses, presents a unique opportunity for the City to
impose a general tax on future marijuana businesses that may operate in the City; and

WHEREAS, a general business license tax based on the gross receipts derived from such
marijuana businesses would generate essential funds for protecting vital City services and
facilities and place such businesses on more equal footing with existing City businesses; and

WHEREAS, the City Council is authorized to impose general and special taxes in order to fund
municipal services and facilities, subject to requisite voter approval as set forth in Government
Code section 53720 et seq.; and

WHEREAS, after a study of the financial issues facing the City, and after extensive efforts to
gauge the public’s opinions and priorities, the City Council has determined that the most
reasonable and financially prudent action it can take to preserve fiscal stability of the City and to
protect vital services and facilities is to place before the voters a ballot measure to impose a
general business license tax on the gross receipts of marijuana businesses, in the event such
business become legal, permitted, and operational in the City.

NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF DAVIS DOES HEREBY
ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. Recitals. The above recitals are hereby found to be true and accurate and are
incorporated into this Ordinance by this reference.

Page 1 of 3

Ordinance No. 2469

SECTION 2. Amendment. Section 19.04.100 is hereby added to the City of Davis Municipal
Code to read in full as set forth in Exhibit A, attached hereto and incorporated by this reference.

SECTION 3. Voter Approval. Section 19.04.100 shall impose a general tax as defined by
Government Code section 53723, and therefore must be approved by a majority of voters voting
in an election on the tax. Approval of this Ordinance is therefore subject to and conditioned
upon the approval by the voters of the imposition of the general tax imposed by this Ordinance.
If a majority of the voters voting in the election do not vote in favor of the imposition of the tax,
this ordinance shall not take effect.

SECTION 4. Severability. If any provision of this Ordinance or the application thereof to any
person or circumstance is held invalid, such invalidity shall not affect other provisions or
applications of the Ordinance that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application, and to this end the provisions of this Ordinance are severable. This City Council
hereby declares that it would have adopted this Ordinance irrespective of the invalidity of any
particular portion thereof and intends that the invalid portions should be severed and the balance
of the Ordinance be enforced.

SECTION 5. Effective Date. The City Clerk shall certify to the adoption of this Ordinance,
and the City Clerk shall cause this Ordinance or a summary thereof to be published as required
by law. This Ordinance shall take effect and be in full force and effect thirty (30) days from and
after the date of its final passage and adoption, provided, however, that the effective date is
subject to and conditioned upon approval by the voters as set forth in Section 3 of this
Ordinance.

PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of Davis this 16th day of February,
2016, by the following vote:

AYES:	Davis, Frerichs, Lee, Swanson, Wolk

NOES:	None

Daniel M. Wolk
Mayor

ATTEST:

Page 2 of 3

Ordinance No. 2469

EXHIBIT A

19.04.100 Marijuana Businesses.

Every person engaged in a marijuana business shall pay an annual business license tax as
follows:

(a)	Ten percent (10%) of each dollar of gross receipts shall be due to the City for the
reporting period.

(b)	Notwithstanding the tax rate imposed in subsection (a), the City Council may, in its
discretion, at any time by resolution implement any lower tax rate it deems appropriate,
and may by resolution increase such tax rate from time to time, not to exceed the
maximum rate established under subsection (a).

(c)	For purposes of this section, the following terms have the following meanings:

(1)	“Gross receipts” has the meaning as defined in Section 19.01.010, as it pertains to
the marijuana business’ reporting period, and includes receipts from the sale of
marijuana and from the sale of paraphernalia used for consuming marijuana and
any other products, goods, or services sold or provided by the marijuana business.

(2)	“Marijuana” has the same meaning as “Cannabis” as defined in California
Business and Professions Code Section 19300.5(f)

(3)	“Marijuana business” means a business activity including, but not limited to,
planting, cultivation, harvesting, transporting, manufacturing, compounding,
converting, processing, preparing, storing, packaging, distributing, providing, or
selling wholesale and/or retail sales of marijuana. A marijuana business includes
any facility, building, structure or location, whether fixed, mobile, permanent or
temporary, but excluding dispensaries that only provide medical marijuana for
medical purposes.

(4)	“Reporting period” means a year, quarter or calendar month, as determined by the
administrator.

(d)	The purpose of this tax is to raise revenue to fund general municipal services.

(e)	No payment of any tax required under this section shall be construed as authorizing the
conduct or continuance of any illegal business or of a legal business in an illegal manner.
Nothing in this section implies or authorizes that any activity connected with the
cultivation, possession or provision of marijuana is legal unless otherwise authorized and
allowed by the State of California and permitted by the City. This section is in addition
to any other requirements set forth in this Chapter and is not intended to exempt,
substitute, or replace any other requirements necessary for a marijuana business to legally
operate in the City.

Page 3 of 3