Ballot question

The following question appeared on the ballot:[i]

Shall the Transportation Agency for Monterey County fund a

44

transportation safety and investment plan to: improve safety on local
roads and highways; repair potholes; maintain streets and roads; reduce
traffic congestion; improve transportation for seniors, young people, and
people with disabilities; and make walking and biking safer, by enacting a
three-eighths percent sales tax, raising approximately twenty million

M

dollars annually over 30 years, plus state and federal matching funds, with
citizen oversight and annual independent audits?[2]

Impartial analysis

The following impartial analysis of the measure was prepared by the office of the
Monterey County Counsel:

Approval of this measure will authorize the Transportation Agency for
Monterey County (“TAMC”) to levy a retail tax on transactions and use,
commonly known as a “sales” tax. The tax will be three-eighths of one
percent (3/8 of 1%). The tax would be imposed county-wide. The tax shall
not exceed thirty years. The purpose of the tax is to fund transportation
and safety improvements. The projects that may be funded are included in
the TAMC Transportation Safety and Investment Plan (“Plan”).

TAMC is a public agency, separate from the County of Monterey or any
city, but with a governing board composed of representatives of the
County and every city within the County. TAMC is responsible for regional
transportation planning and projects.

Projects in the Plan to be funded by the tax include road and highway
maintenance, pothole repair, disability access, senior citizen access and
safety, biking and walking safety, and traffic congestion mitigation.
Proceeds of the tax shall be used to implement the Plan and salaries and
benefits paid from the tax shall not exceed 1% of revenue raised.
Independent audits of the Plan will be required and a Citizen Oversight
Committee shall be formed.

Under the Plan, 60% of the revenue will be dedicated to local road
maintenance, pothole repair and safety. Regional safety and mobility
projects will receive 40% of the revenue. Local funding will be divided
between County and city projects. The cities and the County will be
required to also continue expending from their general fund for
transportation projects as maintenance of effort.

TAMC will be required to annually report on the revenue raised and
expended as well as the status of transportation projects authorized.

The TAMC Board as well as the city councils and County Board of
Supervisors have approved the Plan and this tax measure. According to
TAMC, gas taxes are the major funding source for transportation projects

and it has not been raised in over 20 years. Those tax revenues are not
keeping up with transportation demands.

This measure was placed on the ballot by the Board of TAMC. The tax
proposed to be levied is a special tax as defined by the state constitution
and statute. This measure requires a two-thirds (2/3) vote of the electorate
for passage.

A “yes” vote on this measure is a vote in favor of levying a 3/8 of 1% sales
tax for transportation project purposes as set forth in the full-text of the
measure.

A “no” vote on this measure is a vote against the levying a 3/8 of 1% sales
tax for the transportation project purposes set forth in the full-text of the
measure.[2]

Monterey County Counsels