Local ballot measure: J

Ji

Lakeside Joint School District parcel tax

Ballot question

To preserve quality education for all students in
Lakeside Joint School District, maintain specialized
training for teachers, provide comprehensive
science programs, update classroom technology,
and protect quality academic programs for
elementary and middle school students, shall the
Lakeside Joint School District be authorized to
implement an annual education parcel tax of $820
for ten years, with citizens' oversight, exemptions
available for senior citizens, no funds for
administrators' salaries, every dollar spent on
students and cannot be taken away by the State?

Pregunta de boleta

A fin de preservar la educacion de calidad para
todos los estudiantes en el Distrito Escolar Conjunto
de Lakeside, mantener la capacitacion especializada
para los maestros, proveer programas integrales de
ciencias, actualizar la tecnologia del aula, y proteger
los programas academicos de calidad para los
estudiantes de las escuelas primaria e intermedia,
idebe autorizarse al Distrito Escolar Conjunto de
Lakeside a implementar un impuesto anual a la
parcela para educacion de $820 durante diez anos,
con supervision ciudadana, exenciones disponibles
para ciudadanos mayores, sin fondos para salarios
de administradores, que cada dolar se gaste en los
estudiantes y que no pueda ser tornado por el
Estado?

What your vote means	
YES	NO
A "Yes" vote is to approve imposition of the special parcel tax.	A "No" vote is against imposition of the special parcel tax.

For and against Measure J

FOR	AGAINST
Mert Parsons  38 Year Community Resident and Parent of 3 Lakeside Graduates	Mark W. A. Hinkle  President, Silicon Valley Taxpayers Association
Barbara Harriman  Resident and Realtor specializing in Mountain properties  Glenn Charbonneau  Father, Grandfather, Lakeside Alumni and Local Business Owner	
Bill Norquist  61 year Mountain Resident, Owner, Norquist Tree Farm since 1984	
Leon Milburn  Retired School Board Member, 56 Year Mountain Resident and Property Owner	

Presidential Primary Election • Santa Cruz County • Tuesday, June 7, 2016

J2

Arguments and replies are the opinions of the authors. We print them exactly as submitted, including errors.

Argument for Measure J	Reply: Rebuttal to argument for Measure J
VOTE YES on Measure J to preserve the outstanding education our children receive at Lakeside School.  For over 130 years. Lakeside has provided the children of our community with an exceptional education. Today, Lakeside's students are in the top 5% in statewide test scores, continuing	This latest parcel tax tries to use the state budget crisis to grab unearned money. Lakeside Joint School District wants to extend (read: increase) the 2010 parcel tax of $311 per year for another 10 years—a year before its scheduled expiration in 2017.
the long tradition of developing strong academic and leadership skills in a small school setting. Lakeside's excellent reputation enhances our property values by bringing in new families to our mountain community.  Exceptional teachers, challenging instructional programs, manageable class sizes, dedicated parent volunteers, and rigorous science, math, and reading curricula have prepared generations to succeed in high school, college, and careers. We want that legacy to continue.  Unfortunately, years of state budget cuts and unfunded mandates threaten our Lakeside School. Measure J protects core academics and ensures that Lakeside students are prepared for success in high school and beyond.  Measure J will preserve:  •	Quality academic programs for elementary and middle school students  •	Specialized training for teachers  •	Comprehensive science programs  •	Classroom technology to provide 21st century skills  •	Safe, well-maintained facilities  •	Manageable class sizes	And they want a whopping increase to $820 per parcel to replace the existing parcel tax.  Have they earned that 2.6 times increase to $820 per parcel?  Let's look at student test scores for English learners attaining English proficiency:  2011-	12 school year results: 45.1%  2012-	13 school year results: 47%  2013-	14 school year results: 49%  [Source: www.Ed-Data.org/district/Santa-Clara/lakeside- joint]  That's a dismal 51% who have failed to achieve English proficiency!  Should you, a voter and customer, reward a 51% failure rate with a pay increase?  If you answered "no," we encourage you to vote NO on Measure J.
•	Funding for arts, PE and other enrichment programs  Without Measure J, Lakeside will need to make deep cuts to academic programs.  Measure J requires strict taxpayer protections:  •	Seniors are eligible for an exemption  •	No funds can be taken by the State  •	No funds for administrator salaries  •	Every penny stays local to benefit our children  •	Citizens’ Oversight Committee ensures funds are spent as promised  Measure J lasts for ten years only and cannot be extended without a new vote.  Whether or not you have school aged children, protecting the quality of our local schools is a wise investment. Good schools protect our property values and community.  Please join community leaders, seniors, parents, teachers and residents from every Lakeside neighborhood and Vote yes on Measure J!  Mert Parsons  38 Year Community Resident and Parent of 3 Lakeside Graduates Barbara Harriman  Resident and Realtor specializing in Mountain properties Glenn Charbonneau  Father, Grandfather, Lakeside Alumni and Local Business Owner Bill Norquist, 61 year Mountain Resident, Owner, Norquist Tree Farm since 1984  Leon Milburn, Retired School Board Member, 56 Year Mountain Resident and Property Owner	The statewide average expense per student is $8,788/year versus Lakeside Joint School District's $19,495—222% above average. Yet, they want more of your hard-earned money to pad their above- average salaries and fat pension plans.  The measure says none of the funds will be used for administration. But, funds generated outside of this parcel tax can be used for administration expenses without limits. So, that is really an empty promise. Do not be fooled.  Tell Lakeside Joint School District board to be financially responsible: vote NO on J.  For more information please visit us at:  www.SVTaxpayers.org/2016-lakeside-joint-parcel-tax  Mark W. A. Hinkle  President, Silicon Valley Taxpayers Association

Presidential Primary Election • Santa Cruz County ‘Tuesday, June 7, 2016

Arguments and replies are the opinions of the authors. We print them exactly as submitted, including errors.

Argument against Measure J

Reply: Rebuttal to argument against Measure J

This latest tax increase from Lakeside Joint School District is
an attempt to use the state budget crisis to grab unearned
money. The district wants to "extend" (read: increase) the 2010
parcel tax of $311 per year for another 10 years, a year before
its scheduled expiration in 2017, when families were expecting
a boost to their household budgets.

And the district wants a whopping increase to $820 per parcel,
to replace the existing parcel tax.

The opponent of Measure J doesn't live in our Lakeside
community and has made it his mission to oppose every school
tax measure on the ballot indiscriminately. Measure J is
absolutely needed and is a sound investment in OUR
Lakeside community and children.

As longtime Lakeside residents, leaders, and community
members - we know the facts and we're voting YES on
Measure J.

Have they earned an increase to $820 per parcel — 2.6 times
more than we have already been enduring? Do they deserve
it?

Let's look at the student test scores for English learners
attaining English proficiency:

2011-	12 school year results:	45.1%

2012-	13:	47%

2013-	14:	49%

[Source: Education Data Partnership,
www.Ed-Data.org/district/Santa~Ciara/lakeside~joint.]

That's 51% who have failed to achieve English proficiency —
dismal!

Should we, the voters, reward a 51% failure rate with a pay
increase?

If you answered "no," we encourage you to vote NO on
Measure J.

The statewide average expense per student is $8,788 per year,
versus Lakeside Joint School District's $19,495 — that's 222%
above average! Yet they want more of our hard-earned money
to pad their above-average salaries and fat pension plans.

Measure J says that none of the funds will be used for
administration. But, funds generated outside of this parcel tax
can be used for administration expenses without limits. So,
that is really an empty promise. Do not be fooled.

Here are the latest average teacher salaries for the district:

2011-12: Salary = $75,905. Statewide average = $74,090.

Plus, teachers get a super generous benefits package. Their
"family plan" costs us $7,900 per teacher per year.

Here are the facts:

For over 130 years, Lakeside has provided the children of our
community with an exceptional education. Students are
excelling in all areas.

Measure J must be used for specific and key academic
priorities in our schools: Strong academic programs in math
and science, specialized training for teachers and other
enrichment programs that prepare students for high school,
college and 21st century careers.

Fiscal safeguards are included in Measure J. Seniors are
eligible for an exemption. No funds can be taken by the State
or used for administrators' salaries. All funds stay local for
Lakeside students. The Citizen Oversight Committee will
continue to ensure funds are used for voter-approved
purposes. Measure J will expire in 10 years and cannot be
renewed without voter approval.

By making our neighborhood school and students a priority, all
of us benefit. Great schools contribute to strong property
values and a thriving community.

Don't be deceived by the opponent's inaccurate, misleading
statements. Take a positive step to protect the outstanding
quality of education in our Lakeside Joint School District.

Vote YES on Measure J.

For more information, go to www.YesforLakeside.com
Leslie "Les" Niles

School Board Member, Volunteer Firefighter, Retired Engineer
Julie Rohloff

Former Lakeside Parent, Registered Dental Hygienist, Middle
School Track and Cross Country Coach, 28 Year Mountain
Resident

Tell the Lakeside Joint School District board to be financially
responsible:

Vote NO on J.

Sarah Hitchcock-Glover

Registered Nurse, Pre-School Teacher, 26 Year Mountain
Resident

For more information, please visit:

www.SVTaxpayers.org/2016-lakeside-joint-parcel-tax
Mark W. A. Hinkle

President, Silicon Valley Taxpayers Association

Kathleen Nestler

Lakeside Alumni, Lakeside Parent, 40 Year Mountain Resident,
Local Non-Profit Director

Presidential Primary Election • Santa Cruz County • Tuesday, June 7, 2016

Local ballot measure: J

J4

Impartial analysis of Measure J

Dana McRae, County Counsel

By Jane Scott, Assistant County Counsel

If this measure is approved by at least two-thirds of those voting on it, the Lakeside Joint School District ("the School
District") will be authorized to levy a special tax on real property.

The tax will be imposed for ten years beginning July 1, 2016, at the rate of $820 per year on each parcel within the
School District. The first year it will replace the previously approved parcel tax of $311 in what would have been its final
year.

The proceeds of the special tax, if approved, may be applied only to the purposes set out in the full text of Measure J
which is printed in this pamphlet. It may not be used for administrators' salaries, benefits or pensions.

In accordance with State law, the measure includes accountability procedures. The School District would create a
separate account into which the proceeds of the special tax shall be deposited. An annual written report would show
the amount of the special taxes which have been collected and expended, and the status of projects to be funded from
those proceeds.

The School District also would maintain a Citizens' Oversight Committee to provide oversight as to the expenditure of
parcel tax revenues.

The special parcel tax is to be collected in the same manner as those property taxes which are based upon property
value.

Property owners whose property is used solely for owner-occupied, single family residential purposes and who are 65
years of age or older, or who meet other criteria regardless of age, may obtain an exemption from the parcel tax by
applying to the School District. Owners who currently receive an exemption from the School District's existing Measure
C parcel tax of $311 will not need to file a new application for exemption. The School District may establish procedures
to verify the continued qualification of an exemption. Owners of contiguous parcels meeting specified criteria may also
apply to the District to have them treated as a single parcel for purposes of the tax.

The School District Board of Trustees proposes to reduce this parcel tax if it should develop that it has an unintended
effect of decreasing or offsetting local, state or federal government funding sources that would otherwise be available
to the School District.

This measure was placed on the ballot by the Board of Trustees of the Lakeside Joint School District.

A "yes" vote is to approve imposition of the special parcel tax.

A "no" vote is against imposition of the special parcel tax.

Full text of Measure J

LAKESIDE JOINT SCHOOL DISTRICT
Quality Education Funding Measure J

INTRODUCTION AND PURPOSE

To continue funding for core academic programs, provide reliable funding for local schools that cannot be taken by the
State, retain quality teachers, and integrate technology to enhance instruction, with no proceeds used for administrators'
salaries, benefits and pensions, the Lakeside Joint School District proposes to extend its existing parcel tax for a period
of ten years starting on July 1, 2016 at a rate of $820 per parcel per year, with an exemption available for senior citizens
and certain disabled persons, and to implement accountability measures, including citizen oversight, to ensure the funds
are used to:

•	Protect core educational programs including English, math and science

•	Provide comprehensive education for all students

•	Provide updated computers and learning technology

•	Retain high-quality teachers

Proceeds of the parcel tax shall be deposited into a separate account created by the Lakeside Joint School District.
DEFINITION OF "PARCEL"

For purposes of the high quality education parcel tax, the term "Parcel" means any parcel of land which lies wholly or
partially within the boundaries of the Lakeside Joint School District, that receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem
property taxes from the Santa Clara County Tax Collector and Santa Cruz County Tax Collector, as applicable. All

Presidential Primary Election • Santa Cruz County • Tuesday, June 7, 2016

J5

property that is otherwise exempt from or upon which are levied no ad valorem property taxes in any year shall also be
exempt from the quality education parcel tax in such year.

For purposes of this quality education parcel tax, any such "Parcels" which are (i) contiguous, and (ii) used solely for
owner-occupied, single-family residential purposes, and (iii) held under identical ownership may, by submitting to the
District an application of the owners thereof by June 15 of any year, be treated as a single "parcel" for purposes of the
levy of the high quality education parcel tax.

EXEMPTION FOR SENIORS AND SSI RECIPIENTS

Pursuant to California Government Code Section 50079 (b)(1), any owner of a Parcel used solely for owner-occupied,
single-family residential purposes and who are either (a) 55 years of age or older on or before June 30 of the fiscal year
immediately preceding the year in which the tax would apply, or (b) persons receiving Supplemental Security Income for
a disability, regardless of age, or (c) receiving Social Security Disability Insurance benefits, regardless of age, whose
yearly income does not exceed 250 percent of the 2012 federal poverty guidelines issued by the United States
Department of Health and Human Services, may obtain an exemption from the parcel tax by submitting an application
therefore, by June 15 of any year, to the District.

Persons who are owners of Parcels used solely for owner-occupied, single-family residential purposes and currently
exempted from the District's expiring Measure C parcel tax shall automatically be exempted from this Measure without
having to file a new application.

The District may establish administrative procedures to periodically verify the continuance of any previously granted
exemption.

With respect to all general property tax matters within its jurisdiction, the Santa Clara County Treasurer and Tax
Collector and Santa Cruz County Treasurer and Tax Collector, or other appropriate tax officials of such counties, shall
make all final determinations of tax exemption or relief for any reason, and that decision shall be final and binding. With
respect to matters specific to the levy of the high quality education parcel tax, including any exemptions and the
classification of property for purposes of calculating the tax, the decisions of the District shall be final and binding.

REDUCTION IN TAX IF RESULT IS LESS OTHER GOVERNMENT SUPPORT

The collection of the quality education parcel tax is not intended to decrease or offset any increase in local, state or
federal government revenue sources that would otherwise be available to the District during the period of the parcel tax.
In the event that the levy and collection does have such an effect, the District may cease the levy or shall reduce the
parcel tax to the extent that such action would restore the amount of the decrease or offset in other revenues.

ACCOUNTABILITY MEASURES

In accordance with the requirements of California Government Code Sections 50075.1 and 50075.3, the following
accountability measures, among others, shall apply to the parcel tax levied in accordance with this Measure: (a) the
specific purposes of the parcel tax shall be those purposes identified above; (b) the proceeds of the parcel tax shall be
applied only to those specific purposes identified above; (c) a separate, special account shall be created into which the
proceeds of the quality education parcel tax must be deposited; and (d) an annual written report shall be made to the
Board of Trustees of the District showing (i) the amount of funds collected and expended from the proceeds of the high
quality education parcel tax and (ii) the status of any projects or programs required or authorized to be funded from the
proceeds of the parcel tax, as identified above. In addition to the accountability measures required by law, the District
will maintain its existing Citizens' Oversight Committee to provide oversight as to the expenditure of parcel tax revenues.

Presidential Primary Election • Santa Cruz County • Tuesday, June 7, 2016