r

o

BALLOT MEASURE SUBMITTAL FORM

Jurisdiction Name:Qjj-y Newark	Election Date: ^ 'j /8/201 6
BALLOT TITLE & QUESTION TO BE PRINTED	

Note: The information as it appears within the text boxes will be printed on the ballot. The 75 word count limit begins
in the ballot title (if a title is provided); otherwise, the count begins in the ballot question.

Insert Ballot Title here (if applicable):



□

Insert Ballot Question here:

To upgrade City of Newark facilities and services, including replacing the seismically unsafe police
operations/emergency operations center to survive an earthquake; providing updated crime-fighting
technology; replacing aging llbrary/city facilities with buildings meeting safety codes; providing disabled
access and senior/teen/children’s facilities; and other facilities and services; shall the City of Newark enact a
one-half cent sales tax, providing $3,500,000 annually, for 25 years, with annual audits, independent citizens’
oversight, and all funds spent locally?

TYPE OF MEASURE sales Tax Increase

PERCENTAGE NEEDED TO PASS

8 Regular Measure EH Parcel Tax
CD Bond Measure EH Charter Amendment

S 50%+ 1	□	66.6667%	□	2/3

CD Other:

FULL TEXT OPTION

Full Text to be printed in the Voter Information Pamphlet:

B YES (note: must submit separate copy of Full Text along with this form)

EH NO - A Full Text was not submitted

EH NO - Do not print, but it’s available to the public at:

AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE

The authorized representative/contact person should be the person who wiliype/recejying the typeset proofs

Print Name: 0 [*| 0 j | g HamngtOn

CONTACT INFORMATION (foroffice use)

Signature

Phone#:!

E-Mail:

CONTACT INFORMATI

Phone #:

510-578-4266

5-Man: city.clerk@newark.org

Website:

www.newark.org

12/2015

Measure [X] is a flawed proposal for Newark residents.

First, "pork dollars" have been added to the Measure. The city's consultants said the new buildings cost
$62 million. Yet, Measure [X] asks for $87 million...the additional $25 million is to be spent on the same
city "needs" that our existing Utility Tax is already supposed to cover.

Additionally, the government's proposal calls for a new library on Newark Boulevard, one of Newark's
busier streets. The current location next to a park is far safer for families.

The tax is a regressive tax, which means it disproportionately hurts the nearly 10% of our population
who are below the poverty line.

We propose:

1.	A cost analysis of 'new construction versus remodeling' be conducted and presented, with real
contractor estimates, not just extrapolations. This can be done without spending money on consultants.

2.	An architectural plan that keeps the library near the park and restores our historically significant
library.

3.	A financing plan that has no "pork dollars" and lessens the burden on those below the poverty
line and everyone else.

4.	A smaller capital spending plan where raised funds only be used for our library, police and city
buildings.

5.	A budgetary plan that reflects fiscal restraint, by budgeting for what Newark can afford without
new taxes.

We concede our city hall is in need of repairs and/or replacement and that our library is functionally
lacking. But residents deserve much better than Measure [X]. To read more, visit "bit.do/notopork".

Vote No!

Ricardo Corte

Martin Doyle

The opponents concede that these buildings should be replaced - but offer no real solution - just
opinion that has no basis in fact. The fact is that the Civic Center needs to be replaced urgently to
protect the safety of Newark residents. Half a percent is a very small increase in the sales tax ($100 in
taxable sales would cost only 50 cents more). This is much preferable to property tax based bonds
where the costs could be significantly higher. Also we benefit from the many out of town shoppers that
are attracted to Newark. Numerous area cities have the same sales tax and their sales are vibrant and
grow annually.

The ballot measure indicates how the funds would be spent:

•	Build expanded and seismically safe Police/Administration building

•	Build a new Library

•	Support enhanced neighborhood police patrols, crime prevention, anti-drug and gang
prevention programs

A citizen's oversight committee will review all spending.

The alternatives the opponents mentioned were studied by an independent consultant and found to
cause dangerous delay and be much more costly than this measure. The study is available on the City
website: www.newark.org.

Contrary to what the opponents claim, the antiquated library building was deemed to have no historical
significance and this Council hopes to re-purpose this building.

While we have just weathered a 10 year recession, we have always maintained a balanced budget and
demonstrated sound fiscal stewardship. Providing safe, modern, and efficient buildings to serve our
residents depends on you. Please VOTE YES ON _!

Alan L. Nagy
Mayor, City of Newark

Patricia L. Danielson
Washington Hospital Board Member

David W. Smith

Mayor Emeritus, City of Newark
Rick Arellano

Ohlone College Professor Emeritus
Nancy Thomas

Newark Unified School District, Board Member

ORDINANCE NO.

AN INITIATIVE ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF NEWARK
TO LEVY A LOCAL TRANSACTIONS AND USE (SALES) TAX TO
BE ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION

WHEREAS, existing buildings owned by the City of Newark (“City”), specifically the Police
station, Library, and City Administration Building (“City owned buildings”), are functionally obsolete,
are not energy efficient, are not fully accessible, and are not seismically safe;

WHEREAS, the City owned buildings lack seismic upgrades, which prevent the City owned
buildings from being usable after a major earthquake, slowing disaster response to Newark residents;

WHEREAS, the City’s current police station is in need of technological, operational, and energy
upgrades to improve response time and crime prevention programs;

WHEREAS, in May, 2015, the City retained the services of Group 4 Architecture to study the
potential replacement of the City owned buildings;

WHEREAS, as part of the study, Group 4 Architecture conducted a space needs assessment of
City owned buildings, analyzed potential sites for construction of new buildings, and developed a
conceptual Civic Center site plan;

WHEREAS, said study recommends the replacement of City owned buildings for a variety of
reasons, such as the inability to meet existing and future space needs and to enable modern, efficient
operations;

WHEREAS, said study projects that the total cost for construction of the City owned buildings
would be sixty-four million dollars ($64,000,000);

WHEREAS, the City does not have available sources of funding to finance the replacement of the
City owned buildings despite consistently maintaining a balanced budget and sound fiscal stewardship;

WHEREAS, the City retained the services of Godbe Research to conduct a public opinion poll to
determine whether the public would support a sales tax increase of one-half of one percent (0.5%);

WHEREAS, the polling indicates that the public generally supports construction of a modem,
seismically sound Police Operations Center that maintains up-to date crime fighting technology and
allows enhanced neighborhood police patrols, crime prevention, anti-drug and gang-prevention programs
and improved 9-1-1 response;

WHEREAS, the polling further indicates that the public generally supports improving disabled
access to the Library and dedicated space for seniors, teens, and children; and

WHEREAS, it is fiscally responsible to rebuild the City owned buildings now and before they
deteriorate further and become more costly to maintain in the future.

NOW THEREFORE THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF NEWARK DO ORDAIN AS
FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1:	ADDITION	TO THE MUNICIPAL CODE. Chapter 3.14 is added to Title 3 of the

Newark Municipal Code to read as follows:

Chapter 3.14
Transactions and Use (Sales) Tax

Section 3.14.010	Title
Section 3.14.020	Operative date
Section 3.14.030	Purpose
Section 3.14.040	Contract with State
Section 3.14.050	Transactions tax rate
Section 3.14.060	Place of sale
Section 3.14.070	Use tax rate
Section 3.14.080	Adoption of provisions of State law
Section 3.14.090	Limitations on adoption of State law and collection of use taxes
Section 3.14.100	Permit not required
Section 3.14.110	Exemptions and exclusions
Section 3.14.120	Amendments
Section 3.14.130	Enjoining collection forbidden
Section 3.14.140	Severability
Section 3.14.150	Use of tax proceeds
Section 3.14.160	Independent annual audit
Section 3.14.170	Independent community oversight committee
Section 3.14.180	Amendments of Chapter; Rescission of tax
Section 3.14.190	Termination of tax—Sunset
Section 3.14.010	Title.

This Chapter shall be known as the “Transactions and Use (Sales) Tax Ordinance”
of the City of Newark. The City of Newark hereinafter shall be called “City.” This
Chapter shall be applicable in the incorporated territory of the City.

Section 3.14.020	Operative date.

“Operative Date” means the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing
more than 110 days after the adoption of this ordinance and approval by the voters.

Section 3.14.030	Purpose.

This chapter is adopted to achieve the following, among other purposes, and directs
that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish those purposes:

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the
provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code and Section 7285.9 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 which authorizes the City to
adopt this tax ordinance which shall be operative if a majority of the electors voting on the
measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax at an election called for that purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transaction and use tax ordinance that incorporates
provisions identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law or the State of California
insofar as those provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and limitations
contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax and
provides a measure therefore that can be administered and collected by the State Board of
Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and requires the least
possible deviation from, the existing statutory and administrative procedures followed by
the State Board of Equalization in administering and collection the California State Sales
and Use Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be administered
in a manner that will be, to the greatest degree possible, consistent with the provision of
Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting
the transactions and use taxes, and at the same time, minimize the burden of record
keeping upon persons subject to taxation under the provisions of this chapter.

Section 3.14.040 Contract with State.

Prior to the Operative Date, the City shall contract with the State Board of
Equalization to perform all functions incident to the administration and operation of this
transactions and use tax chapter; provided, that if the City shall not have contracted with
the State Board of Equalization prior to operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract and
in such a case the Operative Date shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter
following the execution of such a contract.

Section 3.14.050	Transactions tax rate.

For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax is hereby
imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated territory of the City at the rate of one-half of
one percent (0.5%) of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible
personal property sold at retail in said territory on and after the Operative Date of this
chapter.

Section 3.14.060	Place of sale.

For the purposes of this chapter, all retail sales are consummated at the place of
business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is delivered by the
retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for delivery to an
out-of-state destination. The gross receipts from sales include delivery charges, when such
charges are subject to the state sales and use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery

is made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the State or has more
than one place of business, the place or places at which the retail sales are consummated
shall be determined under rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the State
Board of Equalization.

Section 3.14.070 Use tax rate.

An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other consumption in the
City of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on and after the Operative
Date of this chapter for storage, use or other consumption in said territory at the rate of
one-half of one percent (0.5%) of the sales price of the property. The sales price shall
include delivery charges when such charges are subject to state sales or use tax regardless
of the place to which delivery is made.

Section 3.14.080 Adoption of provisions of State law.

Except as otherwise provided in this chapter and except insofar as they are
inconsistent with the provision of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, all of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a part of this chapter as though
fully set forth herein.

Section 3.14.090 Limitations on adoption of State law and collection of use taxes.

In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation

Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing
agency, the name of this City shall be substituted therefor. However, the substitution shall
not be made when:

1.	The word “State” is used as a part of the title of the State Controller,
State Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or the
Constitution of the State of California.

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or
against this City or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by or against the
State Board of Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the administration or
operation of this chapter.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sections
referring to the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the result of the
substitution would be to:

a. Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain
sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property which would not
otherwise be exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other consumption

remain subject to tax by the State under the provision of Part 1 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

b. Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or
other consumption of tangible personal property which would not be subject to tax by the
state under the said provision of that code.

4.	In sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711,
6715, 6737, 6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

B.	The word “City” shall be substituted for the word “State” in the phrase
“retailer engaged in business in this State” in Section 6203 and in the definition of that
phrase in Section 6203.

Section 3.14.100	Permit not required.

If a seller’s permit has been issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code, an additional transactor’s permit shall not be required by this chapter.

Section 3.14.110	Exemptions and exclusions.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the use
tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or by any city,
city and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use
Tax Law of the amount of any state-administered transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax
the gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum
products, to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the county in
which the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common
carriers of persons or property under the authority of the laws of this State, the United
States, or any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the City which is shipped to a
point outside the City, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by the
retailer or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at
such point. For the purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point outside the City shall be
satisfied:

a. With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles)
subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division
3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public
Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels registered under Chapter 2 of Division 3.5
(commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration to an out-of-City
address and by a declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that
such address is, in fact, his or her principal place of residence; and

b. With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a
place of business out-of-City and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer,
that the vehicle will be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to
furnish the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the
operative date of this chapter.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of
such property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the property
for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of this chapter.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, the
sale or lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a
contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the
unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right
is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this chapter, the storage,
use or other consumption in this City of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a
transaction tax under any state-administered transactions and use tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of
aircraft and used or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the use of such
aircraft as common carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under a
certificate of public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this State, the
United States, or any foreign government. This exemption is in addition to the exemptions
provided in Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of
California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed
price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the Operative Date of this chapter.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the
tangible property arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such property for
any period of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the property for an amount
fixed by a lease prior to the Operative date of this chapter.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section,
storage, use, or other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power
over, tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract
or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the
unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right
is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in
business in the City shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible
personal property, unless the retailer ships or delivers the property into the City or
participates within the City in making the sale of the property, including, but not limited to,
soliciting or receiving the order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of business of
retailer in the City or through any representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or
person in the City under the authority of the retailer.

7.	“A retailer engaged in business in the City” shall also include any
retailer of any of the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1
(commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in
compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels
registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That
retailer shall be required to collect use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the
vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the City.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this chapter may credit against that tax
any transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district imposing, or
retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code with respect to the sale to the person of the property the storage, use or
other consumption of which is subject to the use tax.

Section 3.14.120	Amendments.

All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this ordinance to Part 1 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and which are
not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part of this chapter, provided however, that
no such amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this chapter.

Section 3.14.130	Enjoining collection	forbidden.

No injunction or writ of mandate	or other legal or equitable process shall issue in

any suit, action or proceeding in any court against the State or City or against any officer
of the State or the City, to prevent or enjoin the collection under this chapter, or Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to
collected.

Section 3.14.140	Severability.

If any provision of this ordinance or the application thereof to any person or
circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the ordinance and the application of such
provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

Section 3.14.150 Use of tax proceeds.

All proceeds of the tax levied and imposed under this chapter shall be paid into the
General Fund for use by the City of Newark. The City Council is authorized to incur debt
financed by the proceeds of the tax to accelerate capital projects.

Section 3.14.160	Independent annual audit.

Annually the City Council retains an independent auditor to conduct an audit of and
provide audited financial statements for all of the City’s financial activities. The auditor
shall include an accounting of the revenue received from the tax and expenditures thereof
in the audited financial statements. The auditor’s report shall be presented to the Council
and the committee established by Section 3.14.170 and made available to the public.

Section 3.14.170	Independent community oversight committee.

The City Council shall, prior to the end of the first fiscal year after the operative
date, establish an independent community oversight committee to review the expenditure
of the revenue from this transactions and use (sales) tax. The committee shall consist of
five members to be appointed by the Mayor and approved by the City Council. The terms
of the committee members and their specific duties shall be established by resolution of the
City Council.

Section 3.14.180 Amendments of Chapter; Rescission of tax.

The following amendments to this Chapter must be approved by the voters of the
City of Newark: increasing the tax rate or revising the methodology for calculating the tax
such that a tax increase would result; imposing the tax on transactions and uses not
previously subject to the tax (unless such amendment occurs automatically by operation of
Section 3.14.120; or extending the tax. The City Council may otherwise amend this
ordinance without submitting the amendment to the voters for approval.

Section 3.14.190	Termination of tax—Sunset.

A.	The levy of taxes as provided in this Chapter shall expire on the twenty-fifth
anniversary of the Operative Date (which is anticipated to occur at the end of the day on March
31, 2042) unless re-enacted by a majority vote of the electorate voting on the question.

B.	The termination of the levy of taxes as provided in this Chapter shall not terminate
the obligation to pay taxes levied on services used prior to such date. Taxes levied prior to such
date shall remain a debt payable to the City. All provisions in this Chapter, except those relating to
the levy of taxes, shall continue in full force and effect after such date.

SECTION 2:	EFFECTIVE	DATE.	This	ordinance relates to the levying and collecting of

the City transactions and use taxes and shall take effect immediately.

SECTION 3:	CERTIFICATION: PUBLICATION. Upon approval by the voters, the City

Clerk shall cause this Ordinance to be published according to law and transmitted to the Board of
Equalization.

SECTION 4:	COMPLIANCE	WITH THE CALIFORNIA ENVIRONMENTAL

QUALITY ACT. The approval of this Ordinance is exempt from the California Environmental
Quality Act (Public Resources Code §§ 21000 et seq., “CEQA,” and 14 Cal. Code Reg. §§ 15000
et seq., “CEQA Guidelines”). The transactions and use tax enacted by this Ordinance is a general
tax that can be used for any legitimate governmental purpose; it is not a commitment to any
particular action. As such, under CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4), the tax is not a project
within the meaning of CEQA because it creates a government funding mechanism that does not
involve any commitment to any specific project that may result in a potentially significant
physical impact on the environment. If revenue from the tax were used for a purpose that would
have either such effect, the city would undertake the required CEQA review for that particular
project. Therefore, pursuant to CEQA Guidelines section 15060 CEQA, analysis is not required.