ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE “G"

MAMMOTH UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT

Given its location, our community and its economy is unique. In Mammoth, we all agree on the value of maintaining
quality local schools and the importance of a good education. We need to support our schools to benefit our children and
families, and to attract and maintain jobs, businesses, and the investment in our community. Measure "G"is a renewal
of the $59 educational parcel tax that we have paid annually since 2003 to maintain the quality of our schools and fund
educational needs the State refuses to provide. It has served us well.

Our schools rely on the parcel tax to provide additional local funding for educational programs beyond that funded by the
State. Measure "G" will protect our schools by preserving funding for:

•	Qualified, high-performing teachers

•	Enhanced math and science classes

•	Music, arts, and enrichment programs

•	Extracurricular and athletic programs

•	Technology, including software, hardware, and support

Measure "G" is a local measure with local control. All revenue from this measure will be spent at our local schools and
cannot be taken by the State. It includes an independent oversight committee of parents, teachers, and community
members to ensure money is used only for voter-approved programs, materialsand expenses. This Measure will last for
a limited period of five years and provides exemptions for local senior citizen property owners, ages 65 and older.

Without Measure "G," Mammoth schools will have to make cuts. Our children stand to lose. Let's renew our commitment
to our children and to quality local education.

We need a local source of funding that the State cannot take away to ensure the quality of our schools and the desirability
of our community, now and into the future.

Vote YES, June 7, on Measure "G" for GREAT MAMMOTH SCHOOLS!

\S\

John K. Farrell

President, Mammoth Unified School District Board of Education
Rusty Gregory

CEO, Mammoth Mountain Ski Area, LLC

Kathy Copeland
Mammoth Lakes Resident

Connie (Lizza) Moyer

President, Measure S Citizens Oversight Committee

Miguel Herrera
Owner, Good Life Cafe