MEASURE GG

COUNTY COUNSEL'S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS
OF MEASURE GG

A school district may levy a qualified special tax upon approval by two-
thirds of the votes cast on a measure pursuant to section 4 of article XIIIA
of the California Constitution and section 50075 et seq. of the California
Government Code.

The Board of Trustees (Board) for the Los Altos School District (District)
proposes renewing and increasing an expiring parcel tax. If approved,
the renewed parcel tax will be levied in the amount of $223 per parcel per
year beginning July 1,2017 and ending eight years later. An exemption
from the proposed tax may be granted for any parcel that is an owner-
occupied residence for a person 65 years or older prior to July 1 of the
tax year. All property that would otherwise be exempt from property tax
will also be exempt from the proposed tax. The current parcel tax of $193
per parcel will expire on June 30, 2017. The Measure does not contain
information regarding any other special taxes that may additionally be
levied by the District.

State law requires the District to state the specific purposes for which
the tax proceeds will be used and only spend the proceeds of the tax
for these purposes. The stated purposes of the proposed tax are: (1)
maintaining outstanding core academic programs in reading, writing, math
and science; (2) attracting and retaining the highest-quality teachers;
(3) expanding innovative science, technology, engineering and math
programs to ensure students are prepared to compete in the 21st-century
global economy; (4) keeping schools safe, clean and in good repair; and
(5) providing other financial support to the extent of available funds to
maintain the District's academic programs and operations, including the
purchase of instructional equipment and supplies. No funds are to be
used for administrator salaries. The District intends to share proceeds
from the proposed tax with Bullis Charter School following the School's
compliance with the Measure.

The District is required by law to provide additional accountability
measures for the proceeds. These measures include: (1) depositing the
proceeds into a fund that is separate and apart from other District funds;
and (2) providing an annual written report to the Board stating the amount
of funds collected and expended, and the status of any project authorized
to be funded from the tax proceeds. The Board will also appoint an
independent Citizens' Oversight Committee to provide oversight as to
expenditures of parcel tax revenues.

The Measure provides that the appropriations limit for the District will
be adjusted periodically as necessary to ensure that proceeds of this
qualified special tax, and of all qualified special taxes levied by the
District, may be spent for the authorized purposes.

Measure GG was placed on the ballot by the Board.

COUNTY COUNSEL'S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS
OF MEASURE GG-Continued

A "yes" vote is a vote to approve a parcel tax of $223 per parcel on
parcels within the District for eight years.

A "no" vote is a vote to not approve the proposed parcel tax.

James R. Williams
Acting County Counsel

By: Isl Danielle L. Goldstein
Deputy County Counsel

SC Ballot Type 000 - Page 00

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE GG

Los Altos School District Excellence in Education Act of 2016
Measure GG

The Board of Trustees ("Board") of the Los Altos School District
("District") has established the goal of improving academic performance
and the quality of education for students in the District.

In support of this goal, since 1989, the Board has proposed and
the community has overwhelmingly supported supplemental educational
funding for neighborhood schools for kindergarten through eighth grade,
including the funds needed to maintain outstanding core academics,
retain the highest quality teachers and expand innovative programs to
prepare students for future success.

The community recognizes the positive impact of excellent schools
on the quality of life in the District, and that a superior and comprehensive
education program delivers many benefits to all the residents of our
community.

The District seeks to maintain excellent schools, with strong core
academic programs and world-class teachers which are enhanced by
locally controlled parcel tax funding that is set to expire.

Property values in the District are supported and enhanced by
strong schools, and may be adversely affected by a decline in the quality
of education provided by the District.

Proceeds raised under this Proposition shall be authorized to be
used to provide financial support for all public elementary and junior
high school students in the District, but with no funds for administrators'
salaries, as follows:

•	maintain outstanding core academic programs in reading,
writing, math and science

•	attract and retain the highest-quality teachers

•	expand innovative science, technology, engineering and math
programs to ensure students are prepared to compete in the
21st-century global economy

•	keep schools safe, clean and in good repair

and to provide other financial support to the extent of available funds to
maintain the District's academic programs and operations, including the
purchase of instructional equipment and supplies.

A.	Amount and Basis of Tax

This qualified special tax shall authorize the District to annually levy
a special tax of $223 per Parcel of Taxable Real Property beginning July
1,2017, and continuing for a period of eight (8) years.

This qualified special tax is estimated to raise $2.8 million in annual
local funding for District schools. The amount of annual local funding
raised by this qualified special tax will vary from year-to-year due to
changes in the number of parcels exempt from the levy.

"Parcel of Taxable Real Property" is defined as any unit of real
property in the District that receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem
property taxes from the County Tax Collector's Office. All property that is

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE GG-Continued

otherwise exempt from or upon which no ad valorem property taxes are
levied in any year shall also be exempt from the special tax in such year.

This Measure shall not impact, or otherwise alter, the terms of any
qualified special tax previously approved by District voters, including
provisions regarding the levy of any qualified special tax or expenditure
of proceeds of such tax, except as provided by Section E.

B.	Sharing of Qualified Special Tax Proceeds with Bullis Charter

School

It is the intent of the District to share proceeds from this qualified
special tax with Bullis Charter School ("BCS"). BCS shall receive a share
of the proceeds from this qualified special tax pursuant to the following
provisions:

1.	Calculation of Share. BCS' share of parcel tax proceeds shall
be determined by multiplying the per-pupil share of the total
annual proceeds from the levy of this qualified special tax-
based upon BCS' in-District Average Daily Attendance (ADA),
and the ADA of students enrolled in District schools-multiplied
by BCS' in-District P-2 (2nd Period) ADA as reported in the fiscal
year prior to disbursement.

2.	Accountability. BCS shall comply with the following
accountability requirements as a condition of receiving a
share of the proceeds of this qualified special tax. The District
reserves the right, through Board action at an open session of
a public meeting, to reduce the parcel tax proceeds disbursed
to BCS absent compliance with these requirements:

(a)	BCS shall provide the District with student directory
information (including student name, address, and school
district of residence in sortable electronic format) to
allow the District to determine BCS' in-District enrollment
for purposes of calculating BCS' share of parcel tax
proceeds. This information shall not be used by the
District for any other purpose and the District will take all
reasonable measures to protect this information pursuant
to applicable federal and State law.

(b)	BCS shall spend its share of the proceeds in a manner
consistent with, and only for the purposes identified in, this
Measure.

(c)	BCS shall adhere to the highest levels of transparency
in its expenditure of its share of the proceeds, in part,
through compliance with the following requirements:

i.	BCS shall only approve the expenditure of proceeds
in a duly agendized open session meeting of its
governing board.

ii.	Following any fiscal year in which BCS receives
proceeds from this qualified special tax, BCS shall
annually provide a written report accounting for its
expenditure of parcel tax proceeds in the previous
fiscal year to the Board no later than September
15. The report shall provide sufficient detail for the
Board to determine if BCS expended its share of the
proceeds as required by this Measure. The Board
will forward the report from BCS to the Citizens'

SC Ballot Type 000 - Page 00

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE GG-Continued

Advisory Committee on Finance for inclusion in its
annual report to the community.

iii.	BCS shall track its expenditure of its share of
proceeds separately from all other revenues, and by
resource code, for the purposes of making its annual
report to the District.

3.	Distribution of Proceeds. The District shall only be required
to distribute proceeds from this qualified special tax to BCS
following BCS' compliance with the terms of this Measure.
Following BCS' compliance with the terms of this Measure, the
District shall disburse BCS' share of proceeds on the same
schedule as it disburses parcel tax proceeds to District schools,
and in accordance with its receipt of property tax revenues
from the County of Santa Clara, no later than January 15 and
May 15 of each fiscal year. The District will make a single
annual adjustment based upon BCS' reported P-2 ADA in the
fiscal year of disbursement. If BCS fails to comply with the
terms of this Measure, any proceeds which would otherwise
be distributed to BCS shall be set aside and may be otherwise
distributed by the Board consistent with the provisions of this
Measure.

C.	Senior Exemption

Under procedures adopted by the District, an exemption from
payment of the special tax may be granted on any parcel owned by one
or more persons who will attain 65 years of age (or older) prior to July 1 of
the tax year and who occupy(ies) that parcel as their principal residence
("Senior Citizen Exemption").

The District shall annually provide to the Santa Clara County Tax
Collector ("County Tax Collector") or other appropriate County official a
list of parcels that the District has approved for an exemption.

D.	Claims/Exemption Procedures

With respect to all general property tax matters within its jurisdiction,
the County Tax Collector or other appropriate County tax official shall
make all final determinations of tax exemption or relief for any reason, and
that decision shall be final and binding. With respect to matters specific
to the levy of the special tax including any exemptions, the application of
the definition of "Parcel of Taxable Real Property" to any parcel(s), the
legality or validity of the special tax, or any other disputed matter specific
to the application of the special tax, the decisions of the District shall be
final and binding. Any application for exemption from the tax in a specific
tax year must be submitted to the District prior to July 1 of the tax year.

The procedures described herein, and any additional procedures
established by the Board shall be the exclusive claims procedure for
claimants seeking an exemption, refund, reduction, or re-computation
of the special tax. Whether any particular claim is to be resolved by
the District or by the County shall be determined by the District, in
coordination with the County as necessary.

E.	Appropriations Limit

Pursuant to California Constitution Article XIIIB and applicable laws,
the appropriations limit for the District will be adjusted periodically as shall
be necessary to ensure that proceeds of this qualified special tax, and
of all qualified special taxes levied by the District, may be spent for the

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE GG-Continued

authorized purposes. This provision shall be deemed to be declaratory
of existing procedures governing District expenditures.

F.	Mandatory Accountability Protections

1.	Specific Purposes. The proceeds of the special tax shall be
applied only to the specific purposes identified above. The
proceeds of the special tax shall be deposited into an account,
which shall be kept separate and apart from other funds of the
District.

2.	Annual Reports. No later than December 31 of each year
while the tax is in effect, the District shall prepare and file with
the Board a report detailing the amount of funds collected
and expended, and the status of any project authorized to be
funded by this Measure. The report may relate to the calendar
year, fiscal year, or other appropriate annual period, and may
be incorporated into or filed with the annual budget, audit, or
other appropriate routine report to the Board.

3.	Oversight Committee. The Board shall provide for an oversight
committee (which may be the existing Citizens' Advisory
Committee on Finance) to oversee the special taxes collected
pursuant to the Measure to ensure that moneys raised under
this Measure are spent only for the purposes described
in this Measure. The Board may establish and revise,
requirements regarding the composition, duties, and other
necessary information regarding the committee's operation.
For any year in which BCS provides the District with a report
of its expenditure of special tax proceeds, the Committee
shall include this information in any report it issues on the
expenditure of the special tax proceeds.

4.	BCS Accountability. BCS' expenditure of any proceeds from
the qualified special tax shall comply with the accountability
requirements found in Section B above.

G.	Protection of Funding

Current law forbids any decrease in State or federal funding to the
District resulting from the adoption of qualified special tax. However, if
any such funding is reduced or affected because of the adoption of this
local funding measure, then the Board may reduce the amount of the
special taxes levied as necessary in order to restore such State or federal
funding and/or maximize the District's fiscal position for the benefit of
the educational program. As a result, whether directly or indirectly, no
funding from this measure may be taken away by the State or federal
governments.

H.	Severability

The Board hereby declares, and the voters by approving this
Measure concur, that every section and part of this Measure has
independent value, and the Board and the voters would have adopted
each provision hereof regardless of every other provision hereof. Upon
approval of this Measure by the voters, should any part of the Measure or
taxing formula be found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid
for any reason, all remaining parts of the Measure or taxing formula
hereof shall remain in full force and effect to the fullest extent allowed
by law.

SC Ballot Type 000 - Page 00

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE GG

Vote Yes on GG to retain excellent teachers and safeguard outstanding
core academic programs that consistently place our local elementary and
junior high schools among the top 1% in the state.

Our award-winning neighborhood schools not only prepare our children
for lifelong success, but also protect high property values for our entire
community.

Measure GG preserves current levels of funding for our schools to
continue the excellent education we expect in Los Altos. By attracting
and retaining the best teachers and continuing support for exceptional
core academic programs, we can ensure a top-notch education for every
public school student.

Measure GG protects innovative classroom programs like science,
technology, engineering and math to ensure our students are prepared
to compete in the 21st-century global economy.

Best of all, Measure GG funding goes straight to our neighborhood
schools and is controlled locally. The state cannot take a single penny.

Vote Yes on GG-Protect the Keys to Academic Excellence

•	Attract and retain the highest quality teachers

•	Maintain outstanding core academic programs

•	Expand innovative science, technology, math and engineering
programs

Every Penny Stays Here In Our Community

•	Measure GG funds stay here in our local schools and cannot
be taken away by the state

•	Citizen oversight and annual audits will continue to ensure all
funds are spent as promised

•	Nothing can be spent on administrators' salaries

•	Senior citizen homeowners are eligible for an exemption

•	Measure GG expires in eight years and cannot be renewed
without voter approval

We know our elementary and junior high schools are an integral part
of what makes our community a desirable place to live. Join parents,
teachers and local business in voting Yes on GG-Keep Los Altos
Schools Strong.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE GG-Continued

www.ExcellentLosAltosSchools.org

Isl Roy Lave

Executive Director Emeritus, Los Altos Community Foundation,
Former Mayor, City of Los Altos

Isl Julie Rose

President, Los Altos Chamber of Commerce

Isl Kim Graham

LASD Citizens' Advisory Committee for Finance, 40 Year Mountain
View Resident

Isl Shali Sirkay

Executive Vice-President, Los Altos Mountain View PTA Council,
LASD Parent

Isl John Radford

Council Member, City of Los Altos Hills

SC Ballot Type 000 - Page 00

	
REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE GG	ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE GG
In 2014, voters approved a $150,000,000 bond measure and now the District is coming back for more loot.  In 2011, voters approved a $193 parcel tax and now they're coming back for a whooping increase to $223 per parcel for 8 more years.  Accordina to the web site: www.ed-data.orq. the district revenues for 2014-15 (latest figures available) are $52,095,239 or $11,401 per student, which is 118% of the statewide average here in California.  If the district is already spending 118% over the statewide average,  why do they need to increase the parcel tax?  Answer: they don't.  Wouldn't be sweet if just once a "temporary tax" actually expired?  They want $223 per parcel on top of the $150,000,000 bond measure debt expense approved in 2014--NOT counting bond interest expense.  It's time we said no to the tax and spend special interest crowd and reject this parcel tax.  Just once, wouldn't vou like to see a "temDorarv tax" actually be	In 2014, voters approved a $150,000,000 bond measure and now the District is coming back for more loot.  In 2011, voters approved a $193 parcel tax and now they're coming back for a whopping increase to $223 per parcel for 8 more years.  Accordina to the web site: www.ed-data.org. the district revenues for 2014-15 (latest figures available) are $52,095,239 or $11,401 per student, which is 118% of the statewide average here in California.  If the district is already spending 118% over the statewide average,  why do they need to increase the parcel tax?  Answer: they don't.  Wouldn't it be sweet if just once, a "temporary tax" actually expired?  They want $223 per parcel on top of the $150,000,000 bond measure debt expense approved in 2014--NOT counting bond interest expense.  It's time we said "no" to the tax-and-spend special-interest crowd, and reject this parcel tax.  Just once, wouldn't vou like to see a "temporary tax" actually be
temporary?  More money spent on schools will NOT result in higher test scores, but will result in bigger bureaucracies and fatter pensions. Please vote NO on Measure EE.  And don't believe the lie that "no funds for administrators salaries". All money is fungible, so money raised by this tax will free up other funds for administration salaries and bloated pensions.  For more information, visit www.SVTaxpavers.ora/2016-los-altos-school- parcel-tax  Isl Mark W.A. Hinkle  President: Silicon Valley Taxpayers Association  Isl John M. Inks  Mountain View City Councilmember	temporary?  More money spent on schools will NOT result in higher test scores, but will result in bigger bureaucracies and fatter pensions. Please vote NO on Measure GG.  And don't believe the lie that "no funds for administrators' salaries." All money is fungible, so money raised by this tax will free up other funds for administration salaries and bloated pensions.  For more information, visit www.SVTaxpavers.ora/2016-los-altos-school- parcel-tax.  Isl Mark W.A. Hinkle  President: Silicon Valley Taxpayer Association  Isl John M. Inks  Mountain View City Councilmember

PR-8550-5ENG

SC Ballot Type 000 - Page 00

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE GG

The authors of the argument against Measure GG habitually oppose
school ballot measures. Flip through the pages of your ballot book to
find that one of the authors is opposing every school measure on the
ballot and doesn't live in our community.

We live, work and send our children to school in Los Altos School District
and know the facts. That's why we're voting Yes on GG.

Measure GG renews existing funding for our schools that will
expire next year. It supports excellent core academics and outstanding
teachers in our local schools.

State funding for our local elementary schools is down nearly 50%

from 2008 levels, and another 30% of school funding is set to expire in
the next five years. Measure GG renews a critical, stable source of local
funding to keep our schools among the best in the state.

Measure GG supports academics, not administrators' salaries or
pensions.

The Los Altos School District Citizens' Advisory Committee for Finance
verifies that all funds are spent for voter-approved purposes and will
continue to audit Measure GG.

Measure GG supports all local elementary and junior high school
students.

It maintains current funding for Los Altos School District and provides an
outstanding education for all public school students in our community.

Our schools keep our home values high.

Our schools are a source of pride and a top priority for our community.
Measure GG is locally controlled, can't be taken by the state and
dedicated to our neighborhood schools.

Join us: vote Yes on GG.

www.ExcellentLosAltosSchools.org

Isl Emy Thurber

60 Year Los Altos Resident

Isl Lenny Siegel

Mountain View City Council

Isl Abby Ahrens

Los Altos Hotel Owner and Realtor

Isl Larry Chu

Owner, Chef Chu's

Isl Robin A. Abrams

Past Chairman and Current Member, LASD Citizens' Advisory
Committee for Finance

SC Ballot Type 000 - Page 00