Kings County, California, Public Safety Sales
Tax, Measure K (June 2016)

Ballot question

The following question appeared on the ballot:^

Shall the Public Safety 1/4 cent Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance be adopted? The
County and its four cities anticipate the measure will permanently generate
approximately $4 million annually to be used exclusively for the police and fire
departments of these five municipalities. The tax would not be levied if the 1/4 cent
Proposition 30 sales tax is extended by the state beyond January 1, 2017.^

Impartial analysis

The following impartial analysis of the measure was prepared by the office of the Kings County
Counsel:

The current statewide sales and use tax rate is 7.5 percent on most retail transactions. In
2012, California voters approved Proposition 30 ("Prop. 30"), which increased the
state's sales and use tax by 'A percent through December 31, 2016. If Prop. 30 is not
extended, the statewide sales and use tax rate will decrease to 7.25 percent beginning
January 1, 2017. This measure seeks approval of a 'A percent transactions and use tax
for local public safety purposes, that will go into effect on January 1, 2017, unless
Prop. 30 is extended past that date. Thus, if the measure passes and Prop. 30 is not
extended, the current 7.5 percent rate will continue in Kings County with 'A percent
permanently going to local public safety purposes. This proposal requires approval by
two-thirds of the electorate.

The revenues of this tax would be shared among the County and the four cities within
Kings County according to population. Each municipality would use its share of the
revenues for public safety purposes, as detailed in an expenditure plan agreed to among
the municipalities. Because the proposed tax is a special tax, state law requires that tax
revenues be spent only as provided in the plan.

The expenditure plan requires the County to split its share of proceeds between the
Sheriffs Office and County Fire Department. The Sheriffs Office would use its share
to hire deputies to bolster patrol staff and in the County jail. The Fire Department
would use its share toward eliminating one person staffing at County fire stations. After

meeting staffing goals specified in the expenditure plan, additional funding could be
allocated by the Board of Supervisors to build or rehabilitate facilities to house sheriff
or fire operations, to purchase or replace frontline sheriff or fire equipment, or for other
public safety programs relating to crime prevention and fire safety. The city councils of
each of the four cities would develop an annual plan as part of the budget process,
allocating funds for Similar public safety purposes. The City of Hanford has identified
in its expenditure plan the construction of a new police station and fire station as
possible uses of new revenues.

State law authorizes local transactions and use taxes in increments of 1/8 percent, up to
a maximum of 2 percent in any locality. For this reason, tax rates on consumer
transactions vary throughout the state. Local transactions and use taxes are collected by
the State Board of Equalization and remitted to local agencies after deducting nominal
administrative fees to cover the state's collection costs. There are minor differences
between local transactions and use taxes and sales taxes.^

Kings County Counsel111