Siskiyou County Service Area No. 6,
California, Special Parcel Tax, Measure

R (June 2016)

| Text of measure

Ballot question

The following question appeared on the ballot:^)

// To provide a method to finance increased emergency medical services shall
an annual special tax be levied of $5.00 per Legal Secured Parcel,
excluding agricultural secured parcels not improved with a residential
dwelling unit located in County Service Area No. 6, commencing Fiscal Year
2017/2018?^

Impartial analysis

The following impartial analysis of the measure was prepared by the office of the
Siskiyou County Counsel:

County Service Area No.6 (“CSA No. 6”) is proposing a special tax measure to be
submitted to the voters in CSA No. 6. The special tax, if passed by a two-thirds vote
of those voting on the measure, would help establish a stable source of funds to
obtain, furnish, operate, and maintain emergency medical equipment and related
services for the protection of life and health in CSA No. 6 for an indefinite period of
time.

A “Legal Secured Parcel” is defined as all parcels that have been legally
established, excluding agricultural parcels not improved with a residential dwelling
unit as of the annual January 1st lien date. All Legal Secured Parcels would be
taxed at $5.00 per year for an indefinite period of time.

California Constitution Articles XIII (A) and XIII (C), Government Code Section
25215.2, and Government Code Section 50075, et seq, authorize a process to
propose and submit a special tax to the voters in CSA No. 6. These provisions
require accountability measures, including a requirement that the proceeds from the
special tax be placed into a special account and that a report be prepared annually
that provides details on the amount of taxes collected in that year and showing that
the taxes were used solely for the specific purpose of the tax.

A “Yes” vote is a vote to authorize the special tax for the stated purposes.

A “No” vote is a vote against the special tax.

This measure has been placed on the ballot by the Siskiyou County Board of
Supervisors acting on behalf of CSA No. 6.[21

—Siskiyou County Counsel111