online editio San Francisco Voter Information Pamphlet & Sample

BallotConsolidated General Election
November 8, 2016

W

Real Estate Transfer Tax on Properties Over
$5 Million

Shall the City increase the transfer tax rate for sales of residential and commercial properties
from 2% to 2.25% for sales from $5 million up to $10 million; from 2.5% to 2.75% for sales
from $10 million up to $25 million; and from 2.5% to 3% for sales of $25 million or more?

Digest by the Ballot Simplification Committee

The Way It Is Now: The City collects a transfer tax on most sales of residential and commercial real estate in
San Francisco. The tax also applies to leases with terms of 35 years or more. The tax rate usually depends on
the real estate’s sale price. The current transfer tax rates are:	_______________

Sale Price of Real Estate	Tax Rate
More than $250,000 and less than $1,000,000	0.68%
At least $1,000,000 and less than $5,000,000	0.75%
At least $5,000,000 and less than $10,000,000	2.00%
At least $10,000,000	2.50%

The money collected from this tax goes into the City’s General Fund.

When a business changes ownership, it must pay a transfer tax on the real estate it owns.

State law limits the amount of revenue, including tax revenue, the City can spend each year. State law
authorizes San Francisco voters to approve increases to this limit for a maximum of four years.

The Proposal: Proposition W would increase the transfer tax rate for real estate with a sale price of more than
$5 million, including leases of 35 years or more. For property with a sale price of less than $5 million, the
current tax rate would not change. The proposed tax rates are:____________

Sale Price of Real Estate

Proposed Tax Rate

More than $250,000 and less than $1,000,000	0.68% (no change)
At least $1,000,000 and less than $5,000,000	0.75% (no change)
At least $5,000,000 and less than $10,000,000	2.25%
At least $10,000,000 and less than $25,000,000	2.75%
At least $25,000,000	3.00%

Proposition W would also increase the state’s limit on the City’s annual tax revenue spending by the amount of
additional taxes collected under the proposed rate increases. The increased limit would last for four years.

A “YES” Vote Means: If you vote “yes,” you want to increase the transfer tax rate for sales of residential and
commercial properties:

•	to 2.25% for sales from $5 million up to $10 million;

•	to 2.75% for sales from $10 million up to $25 million; and

•	to 3.00% for sales of $25 million or more.

A “NO” Vote Means: If you vote “no,” you do not want to make these changes.

Controller’s Statement on “W”

City Controller Ben Rosenfield has issued the following statement on the fiscal impact of Proposition W:

The proposed ordinance would increase the real property transfer tax assessed on transfers in excess of $5
million, and would in my opinion generate significant additional revenues for government services.

The ordinance would increase the property transfer tax rate on transactions between $5 million and $10 million
from 2% to 2.25%, the tax rate on transactions between $10 million up to $25 million from 2.5% to 2.75%,
and the rate on transactions valued at least $25 million from 2.5% to 3%. Applying these tax rates and current
estimated property values to transactions that occurred during the most recent economic cycle, annual revenue
resulting from this proposition would have ranged from a low of $10 million to a high of $73 million, with an
average of $45 million.

While we estimate that the proposed ordinance would have resulted in average additional revenue of $45
million per year based on transactions from the most recent economic cycle, it is important to note that this is
the City’s most volatile revenue source, and estimates based on prior years’ activity may not be predictive of
future revenues.

How “W” Got on the Ballot

On July 19, 2016, the Board of Supervisors voted 10 to 1 to place Proposition W on the ballot. The
Supervisors voted as follows:

Yes: Avalos, Breed, Campos, Cohen, Kim, Mar, Peskin, Tang, Wiener, Yee.

No: Farrell.

This measure requires 50%+l affirmative votes to pass.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of this measure. Some of the words used in the ballot digest are

explained in Words you need to know >.

HideProponent’s Argument in Favor of Proposition W

Prop W is very simple: we’re asking those who are doing very well to pay just a little more when they sell
luxury properties they own to help improve vital city services and create more opportunity.

Prop W raises the transfer tax paid when luxury homes and expensive commercial properties are sold. The new
transfer tax rates apply only to real estate worth over $5 million. This initiative raises the transfer tax by 0.25%
on properties sold for over $5 million, and by 0.50% for properties sold for over $25 million.

There is no change to the transfer tax rate for properties sold for less than $5 million.

The City Controller estimates this initiative will generate $44 million annually, new funds that can help build
more affordable housing, support our seniors, individuals with disabilities and families with children and help
homeless residents off the street.

Prop W is also an important step towards making higher education accessible for all and growing our middle
class. In July, the Board of Supervisors overwhelmingly passed a resolution making Free City College for
San Francisco residents a top priority for the new revenue. Now, we need to pass Prop W so we have the
funding to turn our resolution into reality and make higher education within reach for everyone!

Investing in stronger services and working for an economy that works for all of us — that’s a great deal for our
city.

Please join us in voting YES on W.

Learn more at www.FairShareSF.org.

Supervisor Jane Kim
Supervisor David Campos
Supervisor Aaron Peskin
Supervisor Norman Yee

Brigitte Davila, Trustee, San Francisco College Board of Trustees
Matt Haney, President, San Francisco Board of Education
City College of San Francisco Faculty Union, AFT 2121
Community Housing Partnership

Arguments are the opinions of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency. Arguments are
published as submitted. Spelling and grammatical errors have not been corrected.

HideRebuttal to Proponent’s Argument in Favor of Proposition W

Proponents of this tax bill claim that it is just a tax increase on luxury residential and commercial properties.

But the tax is actually targeted at our larger rent-controlled apartment and commercial buildings, regardless of
whether or not they are considered to be ’’luxury,” are affordable, or are offering rents to residents and
businesses that are below market rate. These buildings are subject to the tax increase just because of their size,
and are the same buildings where a significant percentage of our long-term residents and small businesses live
and thrive.

Buildings subject to this tax will not simply absorb the increase. The tax rate increase will be figured into the
purchase price and will be passed along to city residents and small businesses in the form of higher rents and
rent increases.

Look closely at the details of this tax. Not a single penny is dedicated to help City College students.

And a tax on our buildings, our businesses, and our residents is clearly not the answer when our apartment and
commercial rents are the highest in the country.

Reject Prop W this November.

Encourage San Francisco to prioritize City College in its $9.6 Billion budget.

San Francisco Apartment Association

Arguments are the opinions of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency. Arguments are
published as submitted. Spelling and grammatical errors have not been corrected.

HideQpponent's Argument Against Proposition W

Advocates have described this poorly crafted tax bill as a tax on luxury properties to make City College free
for students. But this couldn’t be farther from the truth. In looking at the text of the proposal, absolutely zero of
the funds raised by the tax are designated or guaranteed to actually pay any tuition for a single City College
student.

In fact, every penny raised by the tax is set up to be funneled straight into the City's General Fund, where it is
subject to the whims of the San Francisco Board of Supervisors and its budgetary process.

The City currently has a $9.6 Billion budget, but it is still asking its residents to cough up an additional several
hundred million dollars in tax revenue, with this measure and a number of others on the November ballot.

The tax applies to the sale of both residential and commercial property, and is targeted on larger buildings. In
San Francisco, these buildings can be large apartment buildings which house hundreds of rent-controlled
tenants, or they can be office and commercial buildings which feed our vibrant neighborhoods and house our
small and local businesses.

If passed, the tax increase will almost certainly be passed along to these current and future residents, and
current and future small businesses through higher rental and leasing rates.

There are certainly merits to helping City College students get a free education. But this tax is not the answer.
None of the money that would be raised from the tax is guaranteed to ever get to a single City College student.
And the tax is targeted on larger commercial and residential buildings which typically house our vital small
businesses and our rent-controlled tenants. Given the way the City is handling its current $9.6 Billion budget,
yet another tax into the General Fund is just not the answer.

Vote No on W.

San Francisco Apartment Association

Arguments are the opinions of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency. Arguments are
published as submitted. Spelling and grammatical errors have not been corrected.

HideRebuttal to Opponent’s Argument Against Proposition W

Our city is booming — but for many residents, it has felt more like a bust.

Prop W will increase taxes on the sale of property worth $5 million or more. Those who own these
properties are doing well; this measure will help ensure that the success our City has helped them create is
shared among all the residents of San Francisco.

Prop W revenues can be used for vital city services like helping homeless families and building more
affordable housing. And this summer the Board of Supervisors voted to prioritize making City College free
once again — like it was until 1984 — by using new City revenues such as those generated by increasing the
real estate transfer tax.

This will help thousands of residents have a better life. A City College graduate makes, on average, $11,000
more per year than someone with a high school diploma. And City College is a proven path to a four-year
institution. With rents going through the roof, what would $11,000 more a year mean for your neighbors and
friends? What would it mean for your family?

We can do more to help working families succeed. Prop W simply asks the wealthiest people in San Francisco,
who are among the wealthiest in the entire nation, to give a little more back to the City that has given them so
much.

Invest in stronger services. Invest in San Francisco families. Invest in our future. Vote Yes on Prop W.

Supervisor Jane Kim
Supervisor Aaron Peskin

Arguments are the opinions of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency. Arguments are
published as submitted. Spelling and grammatical errors have not been corrected.

HidePaid Arguments in Favor of Proposition W

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition W

A Fair Share for A Stronger City

There’s so much we all love about San Francisco. But we’re not going to be the same city if working families
continue to be squeezed out and priced out.

We must do more to help low- and middle-income families stay in our city. This tax on ultra luxury property
will assist in our efforts to strengthen opportunities and city services so San Francisco can be more affordable
and accessible for everyone.

By asking developers and the wealthy to pay just a little more when they sell property worth over $5 million
we can fund vital priorities like making City College tuition free and helping more workers get the skills to
enter the middle class. And we can strengthen other services that benefit every resident of San Francisco, like
helping homeless families get off the streets or building more affordable housing.

Asking those at the top to pay their fair share will help more families have a fair shot at success. I'm supporting
Prop W and I hope you will too.

Jane Kim, San Francisco Supervisor

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this argument: Jane Kim for Senate 2016.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient committee: 1. California Federation of Teachers COPE, 2.
California Nurses Association PAC, 3. Political Action for Classified Employees of California School Employees.

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition W

Help More San Franciscans Step Into the Middle Class - Vote Yes on Prop W

I know education is the pathway to success. That’s why I’m supporting Prop W.

Prop W will NOT affect any property worth less than $5 million. It will generate additional revenue for our
city to strengthen services.

And the top priority will be funding free City College.

Graduates of City College make more than those with a high school diploma. And City College is a stepping
stone to a four-year degree that will help even more of our young people succeed.

Please vote YES on Prop W.

Assemblymember David Chiu

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this argument: Fair Share for Free City College and Stronger Services.
The two contributors to the true source recipient committee: AFT 2121, San Francisco Labor Council.

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition W

Stronger Services for a Stronger City

Our City has seen tremendous economic growth in recent years. For many, these have been boom times. But
others are at risk of being left behind.

Prop W will help fund free City College for San Francisco residents. Those graduates can then expect to make,
on average, $11,000 more than those with only a high school degree.

That’s a big leg up in entering the middle class.

I’m for Prop W because I believe when more San Franciscans have the chance to succeed, we all benefit.

On November 8, vote YES on Prop W.

Mark Leno, State Senator

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this argument: Fair Share for Free City College and Stronger City
Services.

The two contributors to the true source recipient committee: AFT 2121, San Francisco Labor Council.

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition W

Phil Ting

An Investment in Our Future

As San Francisco’s former Assessor-Recorder, I can tell you this is a fiscally smart measure. Past experience
has consistently shown that a modest increase in transfer taxes has no impact on home or property sales in San
Francisco and the new revenue can help more workers earn their degree. In fact, it makes good financial sense:
helping more students attend City College will help more San Franciscans join the middle class.

Join me in investing in our future and our city. Join me in voting YES on Prop W.

Assemblymember Phil Ting

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this argument: Yes on Prop W.

The two contributors to the true source recipient committee: AFT 2121, San Francisco Labor Council.

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition W

DCCC

San Francisco Democratic Party Urges YES on W

San Francisco is changing rapidly - and not all of that change is for the better.

We need to be sure that as we change, we’re doing so in a way that helps all our residents have a brighter
future.

Prop W is a modest increase in the transfer tax on ultra luxury property. It's a way for those who have done
very well in San Francisco to help others in the city prosper as well.

By investing in vital services, we can help ensure a stronger San Francisco for everyone.

San Francisco Democratic Party

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this argument: Yes on Prop W.

The two contributors to the true source recipient committee: AFT 2121, San Francisco Labor Council.

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition W

The City College Trustees Say YES to Proposition W

We know the acute challenges that our students and teachers face. We support the ultra-luxury property
transfer tax increase because it will provide the much needed revenue the city needs to help pay for free City
College.

Free City College tuition will allow San Francisco residents to attend City College free of charge and, for those
students on financial aid, provide funds for books and supplies.

Let’s make sure that all of our students can afford to stay at City College and that it remains one of the
strongest and most diverse educational environments in the state.

Join us - Vote YES on Proposition W.

Rafael Mandelman, President, City College of San Francisco Board of Trustees

Thea Selby, Vice President, City College of San Francisco Board of Trustees

Dr. Amy Bacharach, City College of San Francisco Board of Trustees

Brigitte Davila, City College of San Francisco Board of Trustees

Alex Randolph, City College of San Francisco Board of Trustees

John Rizzo, City College of San Francisco Board of Trustees

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this argument: Yes on Prop W.

The two contributors to the true source recipient committee: AFT 2121, San Francisco Labor Council.

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition W

City College Faculty Stand in Support of Prop W

San Francisco can be a leader in making higher education more accessible. Prop W is our opportunity to make
City College of San Francisco free — like it was before 1984.

Students who want to pursue higher education should not be held back by the cost — or be burdened by
crushing student debt. CCSF students take on millions in student loan debt each year, and many work multiple
jobs while trying to advance their educational goals.

Prop W will generate funding for the Board of Supervisor’s resolution to make City College of San Francisco
free. This will help more than 20,000 San Franciscans access college by covering either enrollment fees or
textbooks and supplies for students already receiving financial aid.

Opening the door to education benefits all our communities. We urge you to vote YES on Prop W.

Timothy Killikelly
Misha Antonich
Mary Teresa Bravewoman
Jessica Buchsbaum
Kathe Burick*

Katherine M. Connell

Karen Cox

Alan D1Souza

Leila Easa

Susan Englander

Allan Fisher

Malaika Finkelstein

Dr. Raymond Fong

Dr. Deborah Gerson, Ph.D.

Daniel T. Halford
Donna Hayes
Jennifer Irvine
Thomas W. Kennedy
Tenaya Lafore
Vicki Legion
Josephine S. Loo
Li Mao Lovett
Alisa Messer
Muriel Parenteau
Robin Roth
Leslie Simon
Rodger K. Scott
Holly Stevens
Edgar L. Torres
Audrey Wallace
Deirdre White
James Wong
Jennifer Worley
Patricia Wynne

*For identification purposes only; author is signing as an individual and not on behalf of an organization.

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this argument: Yes on Prop W.

The two contributors to the true source recipient committee: AFT 2121, San Francisco Labor Council.

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition W

Vote yes to help make Free City College a reality!

As students, we struggle with choosing between food and books, or between rent and tuition. Proposition W
can help lift this burden off our shoulders, and provide us with exactly the support we need to focus on our
education, improve our lives, and give back to our community. CCSF Students say Yes to Fair Share - Vote
Yes on Proposition W!

Win-Mon Kyi
Pamela Lynn Clark
Eris Giovanniello

Kyle Johnson
Elson Law
Fernando Marti
Miguel Michel
Paul Millet
Jessica Najarro
Vivek Narayan
Victor Ngo
Christopher Peacock
Shane Anothy Perry
Eileen Yvette Reyes
Svetlana Tauzhnyanskaya
Carales Tessmarve
Karen Vargas

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this argument: Yes on Prop W.

The two contributors to the true source recipient committee: AFT 2121, San Francisco Labor Council.

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition W

Give all San Francisco Students a Chance to Thrive at City College - YES on Proposition W

Since the early 20th century, City College of San Francisco has provided a quality local option for higher
education. Many SFUSD students take courses at City College to complement their high school curriculum or
they go on to get their Associates degree and transfer to a four year College or University.

Prop W will raise the revenue needed to help make City College tuition free, opening the door to higher
education for thousands of students of all backgrounds and all educational and career paths.

Expanding the school-to-college pipeline creates a more educated San Francisco, benefitting us all. Vote YES
on Proposition W.

Matt Haney, President, San Francisco Board of Education
Shamann Walton, Vice President, San Francisco Board of Education
Sandra Lee Fewer, San Francisco Board of Education
Hydra Me n doza - Me Don nell, San Francisco Board of Education
Rachel Norton, San Francisco Board of Education

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this argument: Yes on Prop W.

The two contributors to the true source recipient committee: AFT 2121, San Francisco Labor Council.

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition W

Fair Share for a Great City

Too many of our friends and neighbors are falling behind in the city we love. They are in danger of losing their
place in our community, which hurts us all.

By passing Proposition W and increasing the tax on sales of ultra luxury property, we can help strengthen
critical services so many of our students, seniors and most vulnerable populations rely on. We believe that by
asking those at the top to pay their fair share, we can make this an even better city for everyone.

Join your friends and neighbors in voting YES on Prop W.

Community Housing Partnership
Jobs With Justice

Mission Neighborhood Centers, Inc.

San Francisco Senior and Disability Action
San Francisco Tenants Union

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this argument: Yes on Prop W.

The two contributors to the true source recipient committee: AFT 2121, San Francisco Labor Council.

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition W

Helping Rebuild Our Middle Class

Working families are being pushed out of our community - we need to act now to reverse this trend.

Prop W will help us improve city services that benefit our working families and can help more residents
advance their education through the great programs at City College of San Francisco. By giving workers the
chance to learn new skills and get their degrees we’ll give them a boost into the middle class and help them
stay in San Francisco.

Asking those doing very well to invest in our city is good for all of us.

Join us in voting YES on Prop W

San Francisco Labor Council

United Educators of San Francisco

American Federation of Teachers Local 2121

National Union of Healthcare Workers

San Francisco Building and Construction Trades Council

Service Employees International Union Local 1021 (SEIU1021)

UNITE HERE Local 2

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this argument: San Francisco Labor Council.

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition W

Join Council of Community Housing Organizations, Vote YES on Prop W

Prop W asks the wealthiest to pay their fair share to make our City better for all San Francisco residents.

Passing Prop W can help open the door to higher education, so students can stay debt-free and make their
future stronger. Prop W will help improve city services that benefit hardworking families who struggle to
afford staying in San Francisco.

Council of Community Housing Organizations

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this argument: Yes on Prop W.

The two contributors to the true source recipient committee: AFT 2121, San Francisco Labor Council.

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition W

African Americans Leaders Say YES on Prop W - Educational Equity for All San Franciscans

For students struggling to afford tuition or stay in school while working or taking care of their families,
Proposition W will be a huge step forward in creating equity in our higher education system. Raising the
transfer tax rate on those who already have so much is a small price to pay and will generate funding needed to
make City College tuition-free for San Franciscans of all backgrounds. Let’s have the wealthiest among us pay
a fair share so that everyone can benefit from equal access to higher education - Vote YES on Proposition W.

San Francisco Black Leadership Forum
Bayard Rustin LGBT Coalition

Shamann Walton, Vice President, San Francisco Board of Education
The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this argument: Yes on Prop W.

The two contributors to the true source recipient committee: AFT 2121, San Francisco Labor Council.

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition W

Chinese Community Leaders Agree: Prop W Will Help More San Franciscans Succeed

Many families are working hard to join and stay in the middle class. We support Prop W because it will help
more San Franciscans build a better life for their children.

Prop W is an increase in the transfer tax on properties worth more than $5 million.

With $44 million in additional revenue from Prop W, San Francisco can invest more in our city to provide vital
services such as helping our seniors, repairing sidewalks and supporting our families and children.

Voting Yes on Prop W will help our families and our city become more prosperous.

Chinatown Community Development Center
Community Tenants Association

Eric Mar, San Francisco Board of Supervisors, District 1

Norman Yee, San Francisco Board of Supervisors, District 7

Sandra Lee Fewer, San Francisco Board of Education

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this argument: Yes on Prop W.

The two contributors to the true source recipient committee: AFT 2121, San Francisco Labor Council.

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition W

Latino Leaders

Join Latino Leaders in Voting YES on Prop W for Stronger Services and Access to Education

Over the recent years, San Francisco has continued to become less and less affordable. The Latino community
has been hard hit.

Prop W will help restore fairness in our city. It will help strengthen vital city services that support families and
seniors like health care programs and affordable housing.

We can also help more students attend higher education by passing Prop W. Prop W will raise the revenue
needed to help fund free City College for San Franciscans, where one third of students identify as Hispanic or
Latino.

Let’s open the door to fairness - vote YES on Proposition W.

San Francisco Latino Democratic Club
Mission Economic Development Agency (MEDA)

Mission Neighborhood Centers, Inc.

United to Save the Mission

David Campos, San Francisco Board of Supervisors, District 9
John Avalos, San Francisco Board of Supervisors, District 11
Brigitte Davila, City College of San Francisco Board of Trustees
The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this argument: Yes on Prop W.

The two contributors to the true source recipient committee: AFT 2121, San Francisco Labor Council.

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition W

LGBT Leaders Say YES on Prop W - The Spirit of City College

City College has been at the forefront of fighting for liberal arts studies and cultural breadth courses such as
LGBT and ethnic studies that reflect San Francisco’s priorities.

With the revenue from this tax, the priority is to ensure that every student - of every racial background, sexual
orientation, age, gender, religion or economic class - can learn and thrive and will not turn away from higher
education because of the cost.

Say YES to Proposition W — keep the spirit of City College.

Harvey Milk LGBT Democratic Club
Alice B. Toklas LGBT Democratic Club
Bayard Rustin LGBT Coalition

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this argument: Yes on Prop W.

The two contributors to the true source recipient committee: AFT 2121, San Francisco Labor Council.

Arguments are the opinions of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency. Arguments are
published as submitted. Spelling and grammatical errors have not been corrected.

HidePaid Arguments Against Proposition W

Paid Argument AGAINST Proposition W

PROTECT SMALL PROPERTY OWNERS

Once again the Supervisors are dipping into pockets of small property owners. Don’t be fooled; this isn’t a
’’mansion tax”. This is a tax increase on selling residential units and commercial property, raising rents for
residents and small businesses.

Aren't two increases in this tax over the last decade enough?

VOTE NO on W.

San Francisco Chamber of Commerce and our 2,500 local businesses.

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this argument: San Francisco Chamber of Commerce.

Paid Argument AGAINST Proposition W

San Francisco voters should vote “No” on Proposition W, the real estate transfer tax increase. This tax increase
on properties selling for more than $5 million will hurt all San Franciscans, particularly families and small
investors with four and five unit buildings in neighborhoods such as North Beach, the Richmond, the Castro,
and throughout the City. Its impact will affect small business and residential tenants in properties that turn
over.

This tax increase on real estate transactions - proposed to fund “free” City College tuition - is wrong for two
reasons:

First, it offers false hope, because “what goes up must come down.” Transfer tax receipts are highly cyclical by
nature - swinging up or down by two to four hundred percent based on simple sales volume - and cannot be
counted on as stable income. When the market goes down, these transfer tax revenues could disappear along
with the program.

Second, this is a thinly disguised “end run” around the voters. New taxes for a specific purpose such as free
City College tuition or street tree maintenance require a 2/3rds vote under state law (Proposition 218). This tax
measure is playing games with the voters by calling it a general tax, thus only needing a 50% + 1 vote to pass,
even though the intent is to fund specific programs. This maneuver disrespects the city’s taxpayers.

San Francisco already has the highest real estate transfer tax rate in all of California, which has been raised
twice in the past decade. In a city with an annual budget of $9.6 billion, larger than Chicago’s budget that
serves 3x the population and 5x the land area, must we continue to raise taxes?

Please vote No on Proposition W.

Ken Cleaveland, VP Public Policy

Building Owners and Managers Association of San Francisco

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this argument: Kilroy Realty, Shorenstein Realty Services, & Pacific Gas
& Electric.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient committee: 1. Kilroy Realty, 2. Shorenstein Realty SVCS,

3. Pacific Gas & Electric.

Paid Argument AGAINST Proposition W

Dubbed the "Mansion Tax" to enhance appeal to San Francisco's virulent class warriors, the San Francisco
Examiner says this measure actually hits small business tenants and commercial real estate the hardest by
increasing the transfer tax for both commercial and residential property sales.

The San Francisco Chronicle reports that San Francisco already collects more transfer tax revenue than any
city in California, up over 33% in the last 3 years. And San Francisco businesses already pay far more than
their fair share, as proven by the $671M in business tax collection forecasts in the City's 2016-17 budget - an
increase of 50% in just 4 years.

That proves Proposition W is not the simple "Tax the Rich" scheme its promoters would have you believe.
These properties can represent the life savings of families heading towards retirement. Ever higher taxes and

regulations raise the cost of living, resulting in displacement, gentrification, homelessness and a San Francisco
affordable only for the rich. Be assured these additional property transfer taxes will hit average San
Franciscans in the pocketbook with everything they buy here.

It’s time for San Francisco citizens to tell City Hall to stop pitting us against each other and start trimming its
own bloated nearly $10 billion dollar budget - up from just $6.48 billion in 2011.

It’s the most lavish city budget in the US and maybe the world. That's roughly $12K in taxes collected per San
Francisco resident, mostly for City Hall salaries and employee benefits. If every voter considered the little they
get from this tax and spend scheme, they'd see what it really is...a rich deceitful City Hall trick. It's class
conflict created to benefit insiders at the expense of San Francisco citizens.

Wake up San Francisco. Stop the madness. Vote NO on Proposition W.

Libertarian Party of San Francisco
www.LPSF. org
Michael Denny

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this argument: Libertarian Party of San Francisco.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient committee: 1. Scott Banister, 2. Francoise Fielding, 3.

Libertarian Party of California.

Arguments are the opinions of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency. Arguments are
published as submitted. Spelling and grammatical errors have not been corrected.

HideLegal Text

Ordinance amending the Business and Tax Regulations Code to increase the Real Property Transfer Tax rate
from 2% to 2.25% on properties with a consideration or value of at least $5,000,000 and less than $10,000,000;
from 2.5% to 2.75% on properties with a consideration or value of at least $10,000,000 and less than $25,000,000;
and from 2.5% to 3% on properties with a consideration or value of at least $25,000,000, and to clarify the
application of the Real Property Transfer Tax to transfers of ownership interests in legal entities; and increasing
the City’s appropriations limit by the amount of the tax increase for four years from November 8,2016.

NOTE: Unchanged Code text and uncodified text are in plain font.

Additions to Codes are in single-underline italics Times New Roman font.

Deletions to Codes are in strikethrough italics Times New Roman font.

Be it ordained by the People of the City and County of San Francisco:

Section 1. The Business and Tax Regulations Code is hereby amended by revising Article 12-C, Sections 1102, 1108,
and 1114, and adding Section 1109, to read as follows:

SEC. 1102. TAX IMPOSED.

There is hereby imposed on each deed, instrument or writing by which any lands, tenements, or other realty sold
within the City and County of San Francisco shall be granted, assigned, transferred or otherwise conveyed to, or vested in,
the purchaser or purchasers, or any other person or persons, by his or her or their direction, when the consideration or
value of the interest or property conveyed (not excluding the value of any lien or encumbrances remaining thereon at the
time of sale) (at) exceeds $1OOt00 but is less than or equal to $25O,OOOt00, a tax at the rate of $2.50 for each $5OOt00 or
fractional part thereof; or (bit) more than $25O,OOOt00 and less than $1,000,000700, a tax at the rate of $3.40 for each
$5OOt00 or fractional part thereof for the entire value or consideration, including, but not limited to, any portion of such
value or consideration that is less than $25O,OOOt00; or (cat) at least $1 ,OOO,OOOt00 and less than $5,OOO,OOOt00, a tax at
the rate of $3.75 for each $5OOt00 or fractional part thereof for the entire value or consideration, including, but not limited
to, any portion of such value or consideration that is less than $1,000,000^00; or (dtv) at least $5,000,000^00 and less than
$10,000,OOOt00, a tax at the rate of $10.00 $11.25 for each $5OOt00 or fractional part thereof for the entire value or
consideration, including, but not limited to, any portion of such value or consideration that is less than $5,000,000^00; or
(ev) at least $10,000,000^00 and above-less than $25,000,000, a tax at the rate of $12.50 $13.75 for each $5OO700or
fractional part thereof for the entire value or consideration, including but not limited to, any portion of such value or
consideration that is less than $10,000,000700; or (f) at least $25,000,000, a tax at the rate of $15 for each $500 or
fractional part thereof for the entire value or consideration, including but not limited to. any portion of such value or
consideration that is less than $25,000,000. The People of the City and County of San Francisco authorize the Board of
Supervisors to enact ordinances, without further voter approval, that will exempt rent-restricted affordable housing, as the
Board may define that term, from the increased tax rate in subsections (dtv)± attd-(ev), and (f).

SEC. 1108. APPLICATION TO PARTNERSHIPS: TITLE CHANGES NOT AFFECTING OWNERSHIP.

(a)	In the case of any realty held by a partnership or other entity treated as a partnership for federal income tax
purposes, no levy shall be imposed pursuant to this Article by reason of any transfer of an interest in a partnership or other
entity treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or otherwise, if:

(1)	Such partnership or other entity treated as a partnership (or another partnership or other entity treated as a
partnership) is considered a continuing partnership within the meaning of Section 708 of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986, as amended; and

(2)	Such continuing partnership or other entity treated as a partnership continues to hold the realty concerned.

(b)	If there is a termination of any partnership or other entity treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes
within the meaning of Section 708 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, for purposes of this Article, such
partnership or other entity shall be treated as having executed an instrument whereby there was conveyed, for fair market
value, all realty held by such partnership or other entity at the time of such termination.

(c)	Not more than one tax shall be imposed pursuant to this Article by reason of a termination described in
Subdivision (b), and any transfer pursuant thereto, with respect to the realty held by such partnership or other entity treated
as a partnership for federal income tax purposes at the time of such termination.

(d)	Notwithstanding any other language in this Section 1108, nothing in this Section shall exempt from the tax
imposed under this Article 12-C any “realty sold” as described in Section 1114(b).

SEC. 1109. TITLE CHANGES NOT AFFECTING OWNERSHIP.

(df-The tax imposed under this Article shall not apply where the deed, instrument, or other writing transferring title to
real property between an individual or individuals and a legal entity or between legal entities tkaPresults solely in a change
in the method of holding title and in which the proportional ownership interests in the real property, whether represented
by stock, membership interest, partnership interest, cotenancy interest, or otherwise, directly or indirectly, remains exactly
the same before and after the transfer.

SEC. 1114. ADMINISTRATION AND INTERPRETATION.

(a)	In the administration of this ordinance the recorder shall interpret its provisions consistently with those
Documentary Stamp Tax Regulations adopted by the Internal Revenue Service of the United States Treasury Department
which relate to the Tax on Conveyances and are identified as Sections 47.4361-1,47.4361-2 and 47.4362-1 of Part 47 of
Title 26 of the Code of Federal Regulations, as the same existed on November 8, 1967, except that for the purposes of this
ordinance, the determination of what constitutes “realty” shall be determined by the definition or scope of that term under
state law.

(b)	Notwithstanding subsection (a)the preceding sentence, “realty sold” includes any acquisition or transfer of
ownership interests in a legal entity that would be a change of ownership of the entity’s real property under California
Revenue Aand Taxation Code Section 64. In such cases, there shall be deemed to have been an instrument executed
whereby there was conveyed, for fair market value, all real property that experienced a change of ownership under
California Revenue and Taxation Code Section 64.

Section 2. Scope of Ordinance. In enacting this ordinance, the People of the City and County of San Francisco intend
to amend only those words, phrases, paragraphs, subsections, sections, articles, numbers, punctuation marks, charts,
diagrams, or any other constituent parts of the Municipal Code that are explicitly shown in this ordinance as additions or
deletions, in accordance with the “Note” that appears under the official title of the ordinance.

Section 3. Severability. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or word of this ordinance, or any
application thereof to any person or circumstance, is held to be invalid or unconstitutional by a decision of a court of
competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions or applications of the
ordinance. The people of the City and County of San Francisco hereby declare that they would have passed this ordinance
and each and every section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, and word not declared invalid or unconstitutional without
regard to whether any other portion of this ordinance or application thereof would be subsequently declared invalid or
unconstitutional.

Section 4. Appropriations Limit Increase. Pursuant to California Constitution Article XIII B and applicable laws, for
four years from November 8,2016, the appropriations limit for the City shall be increased by the aggregate sum collected
by the levy of the Real Property Transfer Tax rate increase imposed by this ordinance.

http ://voterguide. sfelections. or g/en/ real-estate-transfer-tax-properties-o ver-5 -million