Before the Board of Supervisors
County of Placer, State of California

In the matter of:

A Resolution directing the Placer County
Clerk-Recorder-Registrar of Voters to Place a
Ballot Measure on the Consolidated
November 8,2016 General Election Ballot.

Resolution No: 2016-144

The following Resolution was duly passed by the Board of Supervisors of the County
of Placer at a regular meeting held July 12,2016, by the following vote on roll call:

Ayes:	DURAN, HOLMES, UHLER, MONTGOMERY, WEYGANDT

Noes:	NONE

Absent:	NONE

WHEREAS, on August 22,2006, the Placer County Board of Supervisors adopted Resolution No. 2006-
258 and designated the Placer County Transportation Planning Agency to serve as a local transportation
authority for purposes of the Local Transportation Authority and Improvement Act; and

WHEREAS, the Placer County Local Transportation Authority (hereafter the “Authority”) is the local
transportation authority established and operating pursuant to the provisions of Division 19 (commencing
with Section 180000) of the California Public Utilities Code, and Part 1.6 (commencing with Section
7251) of Division 2 of the California Revenue and Taxation Code; and,

WHEREAS, on June 22, 2016, the Authority adopted Authority Ordinance No. 16-02 and the Placer
County Transportation Improvement Expenditure Plan by unanimous vote of the Authority Board, which
imposes a retail transaction and use tax at a rate of one-half of one percent (0.5%) for thirty years

commencing on April 1, 2017, which shall be operative if a two-thirds (2/3rds) majority of the electors
voting on the measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax at an election call for that purpose; and

WHEREAS, the on June 22,2016, the Authority adopted Resolution No. 16-03, requesting that the Placer
County Board of Supervisors call a special election and consolidate that special election with the
November 8,2016 statewide presidential general election for the purpose of obtaining voter approval of
Authority Ordinance No. 16-02; and

WHEREAS, Section 180203 of the California Public Utilities Code requires the County to call and
conduct the special election in the same manner as provided by law for the conduct of special elections of
the County and requires the Authority to reimburse the County for its costs in conducting the special
election if the measure is approved by the voters;

NOW THEREFORE, THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS OF THE COUNTY OF PLACER, STATE OF
CALIFORNIA, HEREBY; RESOLVES, DETERMINES, AND ORDERS AS FOLLOWS:

1.	Call for Election. The Board hereby orders a special election for the purpose of submitting to the
voters the question of whether Authority Ordinance No. 16-02, imposing a retail transactions and use tax
at a rate of one-half of one percent (0.5%) for thirty years to provide supplemental funding for
transportation improvements throughout Placer County should he approved or rejected. This Resolution
constitutes the order of the Board to call such election.

2.	Election Date. The date of the election shall be November 8, 2016, and shall be a County-wide
special election, consolidated with the Statewide Presidential General Election.

3.	Purpose of Election; Ballot Proposition. The purpose of this election shall be for the voters of the
County to vote on the approval or rejection of Authority Ordinance No. 16-02. The ballot language for
measure as adopted and approved by the Authority is attached hereto as Exhibit A. The full text of
Authority Ordinance 16-02, that also contains the question to be put before the voters is attached as

Exhibit B. The ballot measure shall be submitted as a proposition on the ballot as Measure_, and the

County Clerk-Registrar of Votes is hereby instructed to place Measure_on the ballot consistent with

the California Elections Code and in the form attached as Exhibit A, and to include the full text Authority
Ordinance 16-02 and the Placer County Transportation Improvement Expenditure Plan, attached to the
ordinance as an exhibit.

4.	Authority for Election. The authority for ordering the election is contained in Cal. Public Utilities
Code Sections 180201 and 180302 and California Elections Code Sections 9342 and 12001.

5.	Delivery of this Resolution. The Clerk of this Board is hereby authorized and directed to send or
hand deliver a copy of this Resolution to the County Clerk-Registrar of Voters by no later than August 12,
2016.

5.	Ballot Arguments. Any and all members of this Board are hereby authorized to act as an author
of any ballot argument prepared in connection with the election, including a rebuttal argument. The
Chairman of the Board, the County Executive Officer, or their designees, are hereby authorized to
perform all acts necessary to place tins ballot measure on the ballot.

6.	Consolidation of Election: Election Services. The Board of Supervisors is hereby requests this
election be consolidated with any and all other elections to be held on November 8,2016. The Board of
Supervisors hereby directs the County Elections Official to render all services necessary in connection
this this measure. California Elections Code Sections 9160, et. seqshall apply to this consolidated
special election, except that a fiscal impact statement by the County Auditor is not required.

7.	Severability. If any section, subsection, phrase or clause of this Resolution, or its application to
any person or circumstance, is for any reason held to be invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity
of the remaining portions of this Resolution, or their application to any other person or circumstance. The
Board declares that it would have adopted this Resolution and each section, subsection, phrase or clause
thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, subsections, sentences, phrases or clauses, or
their application to any person or circumstance, shall be declared invalid.

8.	Effective Date. This Resolution shall be effective immediately upon its adoption.

EXHIBIT A

BALLOT MEASURE PROPOSING A RETAIL
TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX FOR
COUNTYWIDE TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENTS

Measure________

Shall Placer County reconfigure the 80/65 Interchange to relieve congestion;
better maintain roads countywide; provide dedicated funding for rural road
pothole repair; widen roadways/expand transit; expand Highway 65 in each
direction; provide safe routes to school; add seniors/disabled persons transit;
widen Baseline Road and build Placer Parkway creating 1-80 alternatives, by
establishing a one-half cent sales tax, limited to 30 years, raising $53 million
annually, with independent audits, citizens' oversight, and increasing eligibility
for state/federal matching?

YES	NO

EXHIBIT A

BALLOT MEASURE PROPOSING A RETAIL
TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX FOR
COUNTYWIDE TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENTS

Measure

Shall Placer County reconfigure the j*Q/65_Interchang& to relieve congestion; Q
better maintain roads countywide; provide dedicated funding for rural road	/D

pothole repair; widen roadvyays/expand transit; expand Highway 65 in each	/£>

direction; provide safe routes to school; add seniors/disabled persons transit; >}
widen Baseline Road and build Placer Parkway creating HO alternatives, by °\
establishing a onePhalf cent sales tax,limited to 30 years, raising $53 million ' V
annually, with independent audits, citizens' oversight, and increasing eligibility ^

for state/federal matching?

V

YES

NO

:/c~