BEFORE THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF PITTSBURG

In the Matter of:

An Ordinance of the City of Pittsburg )	ORDINANCE	NO.	16-1423

Adopting a Marijuana Business Tax )

Now therefore, the People of the City of Pittsburg, DO ORDAIN as follows:

SECTION! RECITALS.

A.	California voters enacted the Compassionate Use Act in 1996 to permit the
possession and cultivation of marijuana for limited medical treatment purposes.

B.	In 2003, the Legislature enacted, the Medical Marijuana Program Act, regarding
medical marijuana for qualified patients and primary caregivers, and which allows cities to
adopt and enforce rules consistent with the Medical Marijuana Program Act.

C.	In 2015, the Legislature enacted the Medical Marijuana Regulation and Safety Act,
which creates a state regulatory, permitting, and oversight structure for the commercial
medical marijuana industry, but preserves local land use authority and power.

D.	In November 2016, California voters will decide whether to adopt Proposition 64,
“The Control, Regulate and Tax Adult Use of Marijuana Act”, which, if adopted, will legalize
the non-medical use and possession of certain quantities of marijuana for individuals 21
years of age or older. If adopted, Proposition 64 will also create a state regulatory,
permitting, and oversight structure for the commercial non-medical marijuana industry.
Proposition 64 will preserve local land use authority and police power, and local
jurisdictions would retain the right to regulate or prohibit commercial medical and non-
medical marijuana businesses.

E.	The People of the City of Pittsburg desire to enact a tax on all commercial
marijuana businesses that may operate within the City of Pittsburg, if future land use
regulations and applicable provisions of the Pittsburg Municipal Code allow for such
businesses and/or if local control over such businesses is removed by the courts, the
Legislature, or statewide initiative in the future.

SECTION 2. Amendment of Pittsburg Municipal Code.

Chapter 3.10, “Marijuana Business Tax,” is hereby added to Title 3 of the Pittsburg
Municipal Code to read as set forth below.

Marijuana Business Tax

3.10.010

3.10.020

3.10.030

3.10.040

3.10.050

Short title and Purpose
Definitions

Marijuana Business Tax Imposed
Payment of Marijuana Business Tax
Delinquent Tax

Page 1 of 8

December 19, 2016

3.10.060	Interest
3.10.070	Notice by City Not Required
3.10.080	Failure to Report
3.10.090	Deficiency determinations
3.10.100	Appeal
3.10.110	Records
3.10.120	Refunds
3.10.130	Tax deemed debt to city
3.10.140	Exemptions
3.10.150	Other licenses, permits, taxes, fees or charges
3.46.160	Payment of tax does not authorize unlawful business
3.10.170	Violation deemed Misdemeanor
3.10.010	Short title and Purpose

This Chapter shall be known as the “marijuana business tax” and is enacted solely to raise
revenue for municipal purposes and is not intended for regulation. All of the proceeds from
the marijuana business tax imposed by this Chapter shall be placed in the city’s general
fund and used for the usual current expenses of the city.

3.10.020	Definitions

“Business” means professions, trades and occupations and every kind of calling whether
or not carried on for profit.

“Gross receipts” means the total of amounts actually received or receivable from sales and
the total amounts actually received or receivable for the performance of any act or service
for which a charge is made or credit allowed, whether or not such act or service is done as
a part of or in connection with the sale of materials, goods, wares or merchandise.

Included in gross receipts shall be all receipts, cash, credits and property of any kind
without deduction of the cost of the property sold, the cost of the materials used, labor or
service costs, interest paid or payable, or losses or other expenses whatsoever. Excluded
from “gross receipts” are the following:

1.	Cash discounts allowed and taken on sales;

2.	Credit allowed on property accepted as part of the purchase price and which
property may later be sold;

3.	Any tax required by law to be included in or added to the purchase price and
collected from the consumer or purchaser;

4.	Such part of the sale price of property returned by purchasers upon rescission of
the contract of sale as is refunded either in cash or by credit;

5.	Amounts collected for others where the business is acting as an agent or trustee
to the extent that such amounts are paid to those for whom collected, provided the
agent or trustee furnishes the director of finance with the names and address of the
others and the amounts paid to them;

Ordinance No. 16-1423

Page 2 of 8

December 19, 2016

6.	Receipts of refundable deposits, except that refundable deposits forfeited and
taken into income of the business are not excluded.

Gross receipts subject to the marijuana business tax shall be that portion of gross
receipts relating to business conducted within the city.

“Marijuana” means all parts of the plant Cannabis sativa L., whether growing or not; the
seeds thereof; the resin extracted from any part of the plant; and every compound,
manufacture, oil, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of the plant, its seeds or resin,
including food products containing cannabis.

“Marijuana business” means any business or activity including, but not limited to,
cultivating, delivering, dispensing, distributing, exchanging, manufacturing, planting, selling
or testing either medical or non-medical marijuana, or medical or non-medical marijuana
products, except that the cultivation of marijuana for personal use shall not be marijuana
business as long as such marijuana is not sold, bartered or exchanged for any
consideration.

“Medical marijuana” means marijuana used for medical purposes in accordance with the
Compassionate Use Act (California Health and Safety Code Section 11362.5), and the
Medical Marijuana Program Act (California Health and Safety Code Section 11362.7
et seq.), as sections may be amended form time to time.

“Marijuana business tax “means the tax due for engaging in marijuana business in the city.

“Non-medical marijuana” means marijuana used in strict compliance with any state and
local law pertaining to marijuana that is not medical marijuana.

“Person” means, without limitation, any natural individual, organization, firm, trust, common
law trust, estate, partnership of any kind, association, syndicate, club, joint stock company,
joint venture, limited liability company, corporation (including foreign, domestic, and
nonprofit), cooperative, receiver, trustee, guardian, or other representative appointed by
order of any court.

“Operator” shall mean any person conducting, operating, or maintaining in whole or in part
as principal, agent, officer, employee or independent contractor any marijuana business as
defined in this Chapter, taxable under this Chapter.

“Sale” includes the transfer, in any manner or by any means whatsoever, of title to property
for a consideration; the serving, supplying or furnishing for a consideration of any property;
and a transaction whereby the possession of property is transferred and the seller retains
the title as security, for the payment of the price shall likewise be considered a sale. The
foregoing definitions do not exclude any transaction which is or which, in effect, results in a
sale within the contemplation of law.

“Tax Administrator” means the tax and license collector of the city.

3.10.030 Marijuana Business Tax Imposed

A.	Every person engaged in marijuana business in the city shall pay a marijuana

Page 3 of 8

December 19, 2016

business tax at a rate of up to 10 percent of gross receipts.

B.	The marijuana business tax under this Chapter shall not be imposed on marijuana
businesses unless and until the city council, by resolution, takes action to set a tax rate not
to exceed 10 percent of gross receipts.

C.	At any time, the city council may, by resolution, implement a lower tax rate for all
marijuana businesses or may establish differing tax rates for different categories of
marijuana businesses, as long as the such tax rate does not exceed the maximum rate of
10 percent of gross receipts.

D.	No action by the city council under this subsection shall prevent the city council from
increasing any such tax rate from time to time, subject to the maximum tax rate of 10
percent of gross receipts.

3.10.040	Payment of Marijuana Business Tax

Each person owing a marijuana business tax under this Chapter shall, on or before the last
day of each calendar month, prepare a report of the total gross receipts and the amount of
marijuana business tax owed for the preceding calendar month. All tax reports shall be
prepared on forms provided by the Tax Administrator. At the time the marijuana business
tax report is filed, the full amount of the marijuana business tax owed for the preceding
calendar month shall be remitted to the Tax Administrator.

3.10.050	Delinquent Tax

The taxes required to be paid pursuant to this Chapter shall be deemed delinquent if not
paid on or before the due date specified in Section 3.10.40. Any person who fails to remit
any marijuana business tax imposed by this Chapter within the time required shall pay a
penalty of 10 percent of the amount of the marijuana business tax in addition to the
amount of the marijuana business tax. The Tax Administrator shall add an additional
penalty of 10 percent of the marijuana business tax due on the last day of each month
thereafter that the marijuana business tax and penalties remain unpaid.

3.10.060	Interest

In addition to any penalties imposed, any person who fails to remit any marijuana business
tax imposed by this Chapter shall pay interest at the rate of one percent per month or
fraction thereof on the amount of the marijuana business tax, exclusive of penalties, from
the day such marijuana business tax is due pursuant to Section 3.10.040 until the date of
payment.

3.10.070	Notice by City Not Required

The city is not required to send a delinquency or other notice or bill to any person subject
to the provisions of this Chapter, and failure to send such notice or bill shall not affect the
validity of any marijuana business tax, interest or penalty due under the provisions of this
Chapter.

Ordinance No. 16-1423

Page 4 of 8

December 19, 2016

3.10.080 Failure to Report

A.	If any operator fails or refuses to collect the marijuana business tax and to make,
within the time provided in this Chapter, any report and remittance of the marijuana
business tax or any portion thereof required by this Chapter, the Tax Administrator shall
proceed in such a manner as he or she may deem appropriate to obtain facts and
information on which to base his or her estimate of the marijuana business tax due. As
soon as the Tax Administrator procures such facts and information upon which to base the
assessment of any marijuana business tax imposed by this Chapter, the Tax Administrator
shall proceed to determine and assess against such operator the marijuana business tax,
interest and penalties provided for by this Chapter.

B.	The Tax Administrator shall give a notice of the amount of marijuana business tax
assessed by serving it personally or by depositing it in the United States mail, postage
prepaid, addressed to the person so assessed at his or her last known place of address.
Such person may, within 15 days after the serving or mailing of such notice, apply to the
Tax Administrator in writing for a hearing on the amount assessed. If no such request is
made within the time prescribed, the marijuana business tax, interest and penalties, if any,
as determined by the Tax Administrator shall become final and conclusive and immediately
due and payable. If such request is made, the Tax Administrator shall give not less than
five days’ written notice in the manner prescribed herein to the operator to show cause at a
time and place fixed in the notice why the amount specified therein should not be fixed for
such marijuana business tax, interest and penalties. At such hearing, the operator may
appear and offer evidence why such specified marijuana business tax, interest and
penalties should not be so fixed. After such hearing, the Tax Administrator shall determine
the proper marijuana business tax to be remitted and shall thereafter give written notice to
the person in the manner prescribed herein of such determination and the amount of such
marijuana business tax, interest and penalties. The amount determined to be due shall be
payable after 15 days’ unless an appeal is taken as provided in this Chapter.

3.10.090 Deficiency determinations

If the Tax Administrator is not satisfied that any report filed pursuant to this Chapter is
correct, the Tax Administrator may compute and determine the amount of marijuana
business tax to be paid and make a deficiency determination upon the basis of the facts
contained in the report or upon the basis of any information in the Tax Administrator’s
possession or that may come into his or her possession within three years of the date the
marijuana business tax was originally due and payable. One or more deficiency
determinations of the amount of marijuana business tax due for a period or periods may be
made. When a person discontinues engaging in a business, a deficiency determination
may be made at any time within three years thereafter as to any liability arising from
engaging in such business whether or not a deficiency determination is issued prior to the
date the marijuana business tax would otherwise be due. Whenever a deficiency
determination is made, a notice shall be given to the person concerned in the same
manner as notices of assessment are given under Section 3.10.080.

3.10.100 Appeal

Any person aggrieved by any decision of the Tax Administrator with respect to the amount

Page 5 of 8

December 19, 2016

of such marijuana business tax or penalties, if any, may appeal to the city council by filing
a notice of appeal with the city clerk within 15 days’ of the serving or mailing of the
determination of marijuana business tax due. The council shall fix a time and place for
hearing such appeal and the city clerk shall give notice in writing to such operator at his
last known place of address. The findings of the council shall be final and conclusive and
shall be served upon the appellant in the manner prescribed above for service of notice of
hearing. Any amount found to be due shall be immediately due and payable upon the
service of notice.

3.10.110 Records

It shall be the duty of every operator liable for the collection and payment to the city of any
marijuana business tax imposed by this Chapter to keep and preserve, for a period of
three years, all records that may be necessary to determine the amount of such marijuana
business tax. The Tax Administrator shall have the right to inspect such records at all
reasonable times.

3.10.120 Refunds

A.	Whenever the amount of any marijuana business tax, penalty or interest has been
overpaid, paid more than once, or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received
by the city under this Chapter, it may be refunded to the operator who paid the marijuana
business tax; provided, that a written claim for refund is filed with the Tax Administrator
within one year of the date the marijuana business tax was originally due and payable.

B.	The Tax Administrator shall have the right to examine and audit all the books and
business records of the claimant in order to determine the eligibility of the claimant to the
claimed refund. No claim for refund shall be allowed if the claimant refuses to allow such
examination of claimant’s books and business records after request by the administrator to
do so.

C.	In the event that the marijuana business tax was erroneously paid and the error is
attributable to the city, the entire amount of the marijuana business tax erroneously paid
shall be refunded to the operator. If the error is attributable to the operator, the city shall
retain an amount from the refund reasonably calculated to cover expenses in verifying the
error.

3.10.130	Tax deemed debt to city

The amount of any marijuana business tax, penalties and interest imposed by the
provisions of this Chapter shall be deemed a debt to the city, and any person or operator
carrying on any business without having paid the marijuana business tax under this
Chapter to the city shall be liable to an action in the name of the city in any court of
competent jurisdiction for the amount of the marijuana business tax, and penalties and
interest imposed on such business.

3.10.140	Exemptions

Except as may be otherwise specifically provided in this Chapter, the terms hereof shall

Ordinance No. 16-1423

Page 6 of 8

December 19, 2016

not be deemed or construed to apply to any person when imposition of the marijuana
business tax upon that person would violate the Constitution of the United States or that of
the State of California or preemptive federal or state law.

3.10.150 Other licenses, permits, taxes, fees or charges

Nothing contained in this Chapter shall be deemed to repeal, amend, be in lieu of, replace
or in any way affect any requirements for any license or permit required by, under or by
virtue of any provision of any other title or Chapter of this code or any other ordinance or
resolution of the city or state, nor be deemed to repeal, amend, be in lieu of, replace or in
any way affect any tax, fee or other charge imposed, assessed or required by, under or by
virtue of any other title or Chapter of this code or any other ordinance or resolution of the
city or state.

3.46.160 Payment of tax does not authorize unlawful business

A.	The payment of a marijuana business tax required by this Chapter, and its
acceptance by the city, shall not entitle any person to carry on any marijuana business
unless the person has complied with all of the requirements of this code and all other
applicable laws, nor to carry on any marijuana business in any building or on any premises
in the event that such building or premises are situated in a zone or locality in which the
conduct of such marijuana business is in violation of any law.

B.	No marijuana business tax paid under the provisions of this Chapter shall be
construed as authorizing the conduct or continuance of any illegal or unlawful business, or
any business in violation of any ordinance of the city.

3.10.170 Violation deemed Misdemeanor

Any person violating any of the provisions of this Chapter, or any regulation or rule passed
in accordance herewith, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction
thereof shall be punishable by a fine of not more than five hundred dollars or by
imprisonment for a period of not more than six months, or by both such fine and
imprisonment.

SECTION 3. Severability.

If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this Chapter is for any reason
held to be invalid or unconstitutional by a decision of any court of competent jurisdiction,
such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this Chapter. The
City Council hereby declares that it would have passed the ordinance codified in this
Chapter, and each and every section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase not declared
invalid or unconstitutional without regard to whether any portion of this Chapter would be
subsequently declared invalid or unconstitutional.

SECTION 4. Effective Date and Publication.

This Ordinance relates to the levying and collecting of the City taxes and shall take effect
immediately.

December 19, 2016

IT IS HEREBY CERTIFIED that the foregoing Ordinance was APPROVED by the
following vote of the People of the City of Pittsburg on November 8, 2016:

Yes:	13.693	No:	6.364

IT IS HEREBY FURTHER CERTIFIED that the foregoing Ordinance was adopted
by Declaration of the November 8, 2016 election results by the City Council of the City of
Pittsburg on December 19, 2016, by the following vote, to wit:

AYES:	Banales, Evola, Killings, Longmire, Craft

NOES:	None

ABSTAINED:	None

ABSENT:	None

ATTEST

dfsUt

Alice E. Evenson, City Clerk

Ordinance No. 16-1423

Page 8 of 8

December 19, 2016