The question for Measure C:

"Shall the people of Solano County adopt Ordinance No. 2016 - 1773 to amend Article XII of Chapter 11
of the Solano County Code to establish a general business license tax on marijuana businesses within the
County of no more than 15% of annual gross receipts of the business, and which will continue until
repealed by the Board of Supervisors or County voters?"

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE C
SOLANO COUNTY TAX ON MARIJUANA BUSINESSES

Solano County is attempting to generate revenue from a business they have steadfastly
rejected numerous times. Where some governmental agencies are satisfied to tax at a
lower rate, the supervisors want 15% and have not even identified how they will use
these resources.

Medical Marijuana has been legal since 1996 and is vital to the quality of life of many
disabled adults and senior citizens who depend on it for their health and well-being.
Senior citizens, AIDS patients and chronic pain sufferers were the driving force behind
the Compassionate Care Act, Proposition 215, when signatures were gathered to
legalize medical marijuana back in 1996.

Medical insurance policies won’t cover this additional cost, so they are taking money
from sick people to line the county’s pockets. Their non-existent compassion has been
replaced with their greed.

Should county government be tied to the drug industry and get addicted to the revenue
from the marijuana tax? Addiction to this revenue could soon find the county promoting
the use of marijuana.

The Supervisors anticipate a new tax windfall, and naively assume that Proposition 64
will pass in November and recreational cannabis will be legalized statewide so they can
make even more money. But this is by no means guaranteed.

Proposition 19 failed in 2010 and Proposition 64 faces strong opposition from many
voters and even staunch cannabis activists who once endorsed earlier legalization
proposals now are opposing it.

The question needs to be asked, why have the Supervisors flip flopped?

DON’T ROB SICK PEOPLE TO RAISE PUBLIC SERVANT SALARIES.

VOTE NO ON THE CANNABIS TAX.

s/ Solano County Taxpayers Association, George Guynn Jr. President	^

ORDINANCE NO. 2016-1 77 3

AN ORDINANCE AMENDING ARTICLE XII OF CHAPTER 11 OF THE SOLANO COUNTY CODE TO ADD A
COUNTYWIDE GENERAL BUSINESS LICENSE TAX ON MARIJUANA BUSINESSES

The people of the County of Solano ordain as follows:

Section 1.

Article XII, Business License Tax, of Chapter 11 is amended to read:

Section 11-160 is amended to read:

Sec. 11-160 Tax imposed

Pursuant to the authority granted by Revenue and Taxation Code section 7284, as amended, there is
established and imposed a business license tax on those activities and in those amounts specified below:

(a)	Solid waste disposal at the base rate of five dollars ($5.00) per ton of waste deposited at a licensed solid
waste disposal facility, which rate shall be reduced to three dollars ($3.00) per ton of waste deposited upon the
occurrence of the three conditions set forth in paragraphs (1) and (2) below, and to remain at the three dollar
base rate until December 31, 2013, except for annual adjustments based upon the Bay Area Economic
Consumer Index (ECI), so long as the conditions set forth in subdivisions (1) and (2) below are in effect.

(1)	The Potrero Hills Landfill operator shall have received all necessary approvals from the County,
including a Conditional Land Use Permit and a Marsh Development Permit, to allow for the receipt of
expanded tonnage and/or Potrero Hills and Hay Road landfills reach an agreement for disposal of waste
tonnage in the County which are in excess of the current permitted limit at Potrero Hills; and

(2)	That the present exemption set forth under Section 11-163 (f) 2) of this code for placement of
asbestos materials in landfills, under the Solid Waste Mitigation Fee shall be eliminated.

(b)	Well drilling mud disposal at the base rate of twenty cents ($0.20) per ton of well drilling mud deposited at
a licensed drilling mud disposal facility.

(c)	Electrical energy produced by commercial wind turbine generators at the base rate of three one-
thousandths of one cent ($0.00003) per kilowatt hour of electrical energy generated.

(d)	A marijuana business, as defined in this Article, shall pay to the County 15% of each dollar of its
gross receipts for the reporting period.

(1)	The Board of Supervisors, by resolution, may lower and raise this tax rate from time to
time as it deems appropriate, so long as the tax does not exceed the maximum rate of
15% of each dollar of gross receipts.

(2)	Payment of the marijuana business tax shall not be construed as authorizing the conduct
or continuance of any illegal business or of a legal business in an illegal manner. Nothing
in this section shall be applied or construed as authorizing the sale of marijuana. This
section is in addition to any other requirements set forth in the County's code and is not
intended to exempt, substitute or replace any other requirements, permits, or licenses
necessary for a marijuana business to operate legally in the County.

(Ord. No. 1470, §1; Ord. No. 1496, §1; Ord. No. 1680, §1.)

Section 11-163 is amended to read as follows:
Sec. 11-163 Definitions

(a)	Commercial wind turbine generator means a wind-driven machine that converts wind
energy into production of electrical power for the primary purpose of resale or off-site use.

(b)	Drilling mud waste means all drilling mud derived from the development and production of
oil and natural gas wells.

(c)	Gross receipts mean the total amount actually received or receivable from all sales; the total
amount of compensation actually received or receivable for the performance of any act or
service, of whatever nature it may be, for which a charge is made or credit allowed, whether or
not such act or service is done as part of or in connection with the sale of materials, goods,
wares or merchandise; and gains realized from trading in stocks or bonds, interest discounts,
rents, royalties, fees, commissions, dividends, or other emoluments, however designated.
Included in "gross receipts" shall be all receipts, cash, credits and property of any kind or
nature, without any deduction therefrom on account of the cost of the property sold, the cost of
materials used, labor or service costs, interest paid or payable, or losses or other expenses
whatsoever, except that the following shall be excluded therefrom:

(1)	Cash discounts allowed and taken on sales;

(2)	Credit allowed on property accepted as part of the purchase price and
which property may later be sold, at which time the sales price shall be
included as "gross receipts";

(3)	Any tax required by law to be included in or added to the purchase price
and collected from the consumer or purchaser;

(4)	Such part of the sale price of property returned by purchasers upon
rescission of a contract of sale as is refunded either in cash or by credit;

(5)	Receipts of refundable deposits, except that such deposits when forfeited
and taken into income of the business shall not be excluded;

(6)	Amounts collected for others where the business is acting as an agent or
trustee to the extent that such amounts are paid to those for whom
collected, provided the agent or trustee has furnished the administrator
with the names and addresses of the others and the amounts paid to them.
This exclusion shall not apply to any fees, percentages, or other payments
retained by the agent or trustee; and

(7)	Cash value of sales, trades or transactions between departments or units of
the same business.

As to any person engaged in the business of manufacturing or processing any goods, wares,
merchandise, article or commodity at a fixed place of business within the County which does not
generate gross receipts as defined in this section within the County, gross receipts shall be
deemed to include the total of all expenses incurred in the manufacturing or processing of such
goods at the business location within the County for payroll, utilities, depreciation, and/or rent.

/As to any person engaged in the business of operating an administrative headquarters at a fixed
place of business within the County who does not have gross receipts as defined in this section
within the County, gross receipts shall be deemed to include the total gross payroll of all persons
employed at such administrative headquarters.

(d)	Kilowatt hours (kwh) mean a measurement of electrical energy produced by commercial wind
turbine generators in kilowatts per hour.

(e)	Licensed drilling mud waste disposal facility means any facility or location where disposal of
drilling mud occurs and is permitted by the local land use authority which has permit
authority over the use, location or operation of the facility. Licensed solid waste disposal
facility means any facility or location where disposal of solid waste occurs and is permitted by
the local land use authority, local solid waste enforcement agency and any other agency which
has permit authority over the use, location or operation of the facility.

(f)	Marijuana has the same meaning as "Cannabis" as defined in Business and Professions Code
section 19300.5 (f), as may be amended from time to time.

(g)	Marijuana Business means a commercial marijuana activity, regardless of whether it is for
profit or non-profit, including, but not limited to, planting, cultivation, harvesting, donating,
transporting, manufacturing, compounding, testing, converting, processing, preparing, storing,
packaging, distributing, making available, providing, or selling wholesale and/or retail sales of
marijuana, whether fixed or mobile, temporary or permanent, regardless of whether for
medical or non-medical purposes.

(h)	Solid waste:

(1)	Means all putrescible and non-putrescible solid, semisolid, and liquid wastes, including
garbage, trash, refuse, paper, rubbish, ashes, industrial wastes, demolition and
construction wastes, abandoned vehicles and parts thereof, discarded home and
industrial appliances, de treated, or chemically fixed sewage sludge which is not
hazardous waste, manure, vegetable or animal solid and semisolid wastes, and
other discarded solid and semisolid wastes.

(2)	Does not include hazardous waste or low-level radioactive waste regulated under the
Health and Safety Code.

(3) Does not include medical waste regulated under the Health and Safety Code,
provided that the medical waste, whether treated or untreated, is not disposed
of at a solid waste disposal facility. Medical waste which has been treated and which is
deemed to be solid waste shall be regulated pursuant to this ordinance.

(4)	Does not include drilling mud derived from the development and production of oil
and gas wells.

(5)	Does not include materials which are recycled as defined by Public Resources Code
section 40180, as amended.

(i)	Tonnage means the difference between the total weight of the solid waste or drilling mud
received (measured in pounds) and the total weight diverted for recycling (measured in
pounds) divided by two thousand (2,000).

(j)	Wind Energy Generation Facility means an installation of one or more commercial wind
turbine generators.

(Ord. No. 1470, §1; Ord. No. 1496, §1; Ord. No. 1680, §1.)

Section 11-164 is amended to read as follows:

11-164 Reporting, of tonnage or kilowatt hours or gross receipts

a) For purposes of determining the net tonnage deposited for computation of the tax, each licensed Solid
Waste Facility or Drilling Mud Facility shall make monthly reports of net tonnage to the Solano County
Department of Resource Management by the twenty-fifth day of the of the following month. The Department of
Resource Management shall verify the reports and submit the data quarterly to the Solano County Auditor-
Controller on the twenty-fifth day of the month following the end of the quarter.

(b)	For purposes of determining the electrical energy produced for computation of the wind energy tax, each
Wind Energy Generation Facility shall make monthly report of the kilowatt hours of energy produced by the
facility to the Solano County Department of Resource Management by the twenty-fifth day of the following
month. The Department of Resource Management shall verify the reports and submit the data quarterly to the
Solano County Auditor-Controller.

(c)	A marijuana business shall report its gross receipts quarterly to the Solano County Auditor-Controller
by the twenty-fifth day of the month following the end of the quarter.

(Ord. No. 1470, §1; Ord. No. 1496, §1; Ord. No. 1680, §1.)

Section 11-165 is amended to read as follows:

11-165 Payment of tax

The Solano County Auditor-Controller shall issue a quarterly tax bill to each marijuana business, licensed
Solid Waste Facility, licensed Drilling Mud Disposal Facility, and Wind Energy Generation Facility, which
shall be due and payable to the Solano County Auditor-Controller upon receipt and delinquent at the
end of the month following the month issued.

(Ord. No. 1470, §1; Ord. No. 1496, §1; Ord. No. 1680, §1)

Section 11-166 is repealed.

Section 11-166 is added to read:

11-166 Penalty for delinquency

A ten percent (10%) penalty shall be assessed on any tax not paid by the delinquent date. A facility or
business subject to this Article that is not current in its payment of any taxes pursuant to this Chapter at
the time of the annual renewal of its Solano County Business license issued pursuant to Chapter 14 of the
Solano County Code may be denied a license renewal until all taxes and penalties are paid.

(Ord. No. 1470, §1; Ord. No. 1496, §1.)

Section 2.

This ordinance imposes a general tax as defined by Government Code section 53723 and must therefore
be approved by a majority of qualified voters in an election before it can become effective. Approval of
this ordinance is therefore subject to and conditioned upon the voters approving the imposition of this
general tax. If the majority of votes cast in the election are not in favor of the imposition of this tax, the
ordinance shall not take effect.

Section 3.

If any provision of this ordinance or its application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the
remainder of the ordinance and the application of such provisions to other persons or circumstances
shall not be affected.

Section 4.

This ordinance shall be published once within fifteen (15) days after its passage, in the Fairfield Daily
Republic, a newspaper of general circulation in Solano County.

Passed and adopted by the Solano County Board of Supervisors at its regular meeting on August 9, 2016,
by the following vote:

AYES:

NOES:

Supervisors sp.i fp.rt f Sperincr. Thomson
Vasquez and Hannigan
Supervisors None.__________________________________

EXCUSED:

ATTEST:

BIRGITTA E. CORSELLO, Clerk
Solano County Board of Supervisors

Solano County Board of Supervisors

[Additions or changes indicated by italics]

Introduced:	August	2,	2016

Adopted:

Effective:

Operative:

August 9, 2016

November 8, 2016 [if voter approved]
January 1, 2018 [if voter approved]