Oakley, California, Utility Users Tax, Measure E (November 2016)

Ballot question

The following question appeared on the ballot:1^

To maintain and enhance essential City services, such as fire protection and emergency
medical response services, shall an Ordinance be adopted to enact a three and one-half
percent (3.5%) utility users tax on electricity, water, sewer, gas, and cable television to
raise approximately two million dollars on an annual basis?

Impartial analysis

The following impartial analysis of the measure was prepared by the office of the Oakley City

Attorney:

Measure E asks whether voters of the City of Oakley wish to pay a utility users tax of
3.5% on electricity, water, sewer, gas, and cable-television services. A utility users tax
is a tax levied on each user of a utility within the City’s boundaries.

Measure E was placed on the ballot by a unanimous vote of the Oakley City Council. If
approved, the utility users tax would generate about $2 million in new tax revenues
annually. These revenues would go into the City’s general fund, which would mean
they could be spent for any public services the City provides.

Measure E requires approval of a majority of voters (more than 50%). A “Yes” vote
means the voter favors the City collecting the utility users tax; a “No” vote means the
voter does not favor the tax being collected.

A companion measure on this ballot, Measure G, asks Oakley voters whether they
desire that revenues from the utility users tax (if approved) be spent to enhance fire and
emergency medical response services within their city. If Measures E and G both pass,
voters would effectively request that the Oakley City Council each year allocate the
utility users tax revenues to fire and emergency medical services. If Measure E passes,
but Measure G does not pass, the utility users tax would still be collected; however,
voters would effectively express an intent that the City Council use the tax revenues
for services other than fire and emergency medical response.

If voters approve Measure E, the utility users tax would be collected by utility service
providers and computed on the basis of monthly usage and service charges. The tax
would not be imposed on schools, special districts, the City, or any party that would be

exempt from the tax under federal or state law. Low-income households (which would
be defined based on income thresholds to be established by the City Council) would
also be exempt from the obligation to pay the tax.

Measure E requires formation of a citizen review board, appointed by the Oakley City
Council, to recommend how utility tax revenues should be expended and to monitor
such expenditures. If tax revenues are used for fire service, Measure E directs that the
East Contra Costa Fire Protection District (ECCFPD) reimburse any persons that live
within the Cypress Lakes Community Facility District for any annual fire tax or
assessment they pay.

Measure E also contains a “sunset” clause. It directs that if the share of property taxes
to the ECCFPD is increased so as to provide that District additional funding for any
services the utility users tax covers, the City Council shall repeal the tax.121

—Oakley City Attorney121

Support

Supporters

The following individuals signed the official argument in favor of the measure:121

• Meghan L. Bell, Oakley resident, mother, special-needs advocate, and community
volunteer

Arguments in favor
Official argument

The following official argument was submitted in favor of the measure:121

Vote YES on Measure “E” to maintain services critical to Oakley and the surrounding
communities.

Measure “E” could provide much needed funding to address a CRITICAL crisis we are
experiencing with fire services in East Contra Costa County. Existing funding for the
Fire District is only able to open and operate 3 fire stations, covering 249 sq. miles,
putting you and I, and our loved ones, in great danger. A recent master plan analysis
indicates that we need at least 9 fire stations in the District to provide a basic level of
fire and emergency medical response services.

The current limitation of having only 3 stations open has resulted in response times
that are over 12 minutes! This is completely unacceptable and more stations are needed

to serve our community. The American Heart Association’s scientific position is that
brain death and permanent death start to occur in 4-6 minutes after someone
experiences a heart attack. Studies show that a person’s chances of survival are
reduced by 7%-10% with every minute that passes without defibrillation and early
support intervention. Few attempts at resuscitation succeed after 10 minutes.

Measure “E” and Advisory Measure “G” will bring relief to this crisis situation and
they need your support in order to protect our community - please vote YES.

121

Opposition

Opponents

The following individuals signed the official argument against the measure:121

•	Harold E. Bray, East County Chairperson, Contra Costa Taxpayers Association

•	Jack Weir, President, Contra Costa Taxpayers Association

Arguments against
Official argument

The following official argument was submitted in opposition to the measure:121

This measure purports to fund the East Contra Costa Fire District (ECCFPD), but does
not even mention the district, nor does it bind or legally require the City to fund the
ECCFPD. This regressive Utility User Tax:

•	Will impose an average household tax of $200 to $400+ and business tax of up
to $1000 or more annually; it is clearly unaffordable for many residents.

•	Is a general purpose “slush fund” tax for the City of Oakley, masked on the
bills of the targeted utilities - cable television, electricity, gas, water and sewer.

•	Will generate revenues that will be deposited into the CITY OF OAKLEY
GENERAL FUND for any use the city determines is necessary for its own
needs.

Will not force the city to negotiate a promissory agreement with ECCFPD nor
annually fulfill its promise to fund the Fire District; the fire district’s budget
forecasts will be unreliable.

Is designed to avoid the 2/3 vote requirement of other tax measures tried in the
past by the ECCFPD, which failed.

Will burden all residences, businesses, non-profits, and other types of
organizations within the city, damaging the economy.

Will be dependent on the city’s financial condition, and on the city council’s
judgment and desire to satisfy their own perceived needs before it funds the fire
district.

The Contra Costa Taxpayers Association strongly recommends a NO vote on
this tax.