The question for Measure V:

THE VALLEJO SALES TAX MEASURE	
Shall an “Ordinance Amending Vallejo Municipal Code to Maintain Enhanced Funding for 911 Response, Police Patrols, Firefighter and Emergency Medical Services, Youth Programs, Street and Pothole Repair, Graffiti Removal, Economic Development, and Other General City Services, Renewing the Existing, Voter-Approved, One Percent Transactions and Use (Sales) Tax (Measure B) to Provide Approximately $14 Million Yearly with All Revenues Independently Audited and Expenditures Publicly Reviewed and Locally Controlled” be adopted?	YES
	NO

MEASURE V - CITY ATTORNEY IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

If approved by a majority of voters, Measure V would remove the termination date set
forth in the 2011 voter-approved ordinance known as “Measure B”, which authorized a
one percent transactions and use tax. This tax of one percent is currently set to terminate
on March 31, 2022.

The money from “Measure B,” the transactions and use tax, or “sales” tax as it is more
commonly referred to, is currently, and would continue to be, deposited into the City’s
general fund. The money is used for any general City purpose and would continue to be
used for those purposes, including 911 response, police patrols, firefighter and
emergency medical services, youth programs, street repaving and pothole repair, graffiti
removal, economic development and other general City services. The tax revenues
would continue to be subject to the annual audit performed by the City’s independent
auditor, which is reported in the City’s Comprehensive Annual Financial Report.

Measure V would have no effect on the amount of the sales tax or the manner of
collection. The only effect is to remove the date the tax expires. The tax would continue
to be collected at the same time and in much the same manner as existing sales taxes,
and collection of the tax would continue to be administered by the State Board of
Equalization.

The removal of the termination date means that the one percent tax would not end on
March 31, 2022. The tax would continue beyond that date unless changed again by a
vote of the public.

A “Yes” vote is a vote to remove the termination date of March 31, 2022, with the effect
that the sales tax would remain at 8.375% now and beyond March 31, 2022.

A “No” vote is a vote to keep the original termination date of March 31, 2022, with the
effect that on March 31, 2022, the one percent sales tax would end, and the total sales
tax would likely decrease to 7.375%.

Claudia Quintana

City Attorney, City of Vallejo

In 2011, as we struggled to recover from the worst financial crisis in the history of our city, the Vallejo
City Council asked you to approve Measure B, a one cent sales tax which we promised to use for the
purposes of improving public safety, repaving streets, generating economic development opportunities,
balancing our budget and creating a "Rainy Day" fund.

We have used your tax money to do exactly what we promised. We have:

•	Made our City much safer by the hiring of 22 additional police officers.

•	Paved and repaired over 137 miles of streets.

•	Enforced action on nearly 700 dilapidated properties.

•	Improved fire protection services by reopening two of the three previously closed Fire stations.

•	Added 5 new employees to our Economic Development team.

•	Experienced the addition of 15 new Mare Island businesses, the issuance of more than 4847
new business licenses, and a more than 5% reduction in our unemployment rate.

•	Established a balanced budget with a Rainy Day fund.

Measure B included a 10 year automatic sunset clause that cannot be extended without voter approval.
If Measure B funding expires, Vallejo may once again experience multi-million dollar budget deficits,
deep cuts to police, fire, street repair, economic development and other essential City services.

A "Yes" vote on Measure V will not increase current or future sales taxes. Measure V has been placed
on the November 8 ballot by the City Council so that voters can decide whether to remove the sunset
date and ensure that the improved services we have implemented through Measure B funding will
continue.

Say "YES" to a safer and more prosperous Vallejo by voting YES on Measure V.