Healdsburg, California, Hotel Tax
Adjustment, Measure S (November

2016)

| Text of measure

Ballot question

The following question appeared on the ballot:^]

// To increase, improve and preserve the City’s affordable housing stock, shall
the City of Healdsburg be authorized to levy an ongoing 2% transient
occupancy tax (or “hotel” tax) on persons who occupy hotel rooms for 30
days or less, increasing the maximum hotel tax rate from 12% to 14%, and
providing an estimated minimum $530,123 annually, with all funds of the
additional tax restricted to affordable housing services and programs?^

Impartial analysis

The following impartial analysis of the measure was prepared by the office of the

Healdsburg City Attorney:

The Healdsburg City Council, by a unanimous vote with one member absent, has
placed Measure S on the November ballot to request that voters adopt an ordinance
that would increase the City’s transient occupancy tax (“TOT”) from the existing
maximum 12% to add a 2% increment for affordable housing purposes.

The TOT is imposed on persons staying in or using hotels and other temporary
rental lodging for periods of 30 days or less. Such places of lodging must collect the
tax from users and remit it to the City. Currently the Healdsburg Municipal Code
imposes a 10% TOT for Community Services activities and an additional 2% TOT
to be allocated to the General Fund upon reauthorization by the City Council every
other year. Because Measure S would restrict the new 2% increment for specific
affordable housing purposes rather than remit it to the General Fund, it is a special
tax requiring approval of 66.7% of those voting. The funds would be used to
increase, improve and preserve the City’s affordable housing stock. Collection of
the new TOT increment, if approved, would be ongoing and is estimated to provide
a minimum of $530,123 annually for affordable housing services and programs.
Eligible income categories for such services and programs would be as defined in
Municipal Code Section 20.28.310, as amended from time to time.

A “yes” vote is a vote to adopt the ordinance amending the Healdsburg Municipal
Code to increase the TOT by 2% for affordable housing services and programs. A

“no” vote is a vote against adopting the ordinance. Measure S will be approved if it
receives at least 66.7% of “yes” votes.1	w

—Healdsburg City Attorney11’

Arguments in favor

Official argument

The following official argument was submitted in favor of the measure:^

Providing housing affordable to working families is a top priority in Healdsburg.
The development of affordable housing has been hindered by the State’s dissolution
of Redevelopment Agencies in 2011, which eliminated significant funding sources
previously used to create affordable housing.

Despite the loss of funding, housing remains a topic of concern. Through extensive
outreach at over 30 community meetings and workshops over the past 24 months,
the community has repeatedly identified the need for more housing affordable to
working families in Healdsburg, including State-defined, deed restricted affordable
housing for qualified low income families.

To address these concerns, the City Council adopted a Housing Action Plan to
promote more affordable and diverse housing in Healdsburg. A key
recommendation of the Housing Action Plan is to create a dedicated, long-term
funding source for affordable housing programs and services to support the
provision of deedrestricted affordable housing in our community.

If passed by the voters, the 2% increase to the Transient Occupancy Tax (TOT)
would provide a minimum of $530,000 annually, which will be dedicated for the
provision of affordable housing programs and services. As new overnight lodging
facilities open in the City, TOT revenues should increase allowing for additional
opportunities to support affordable housing. The 2% increase is a special tax
requiring 66.7% of the votes to pass and the funds cannot be redirected for any
other use or purpose.

At a time when State and Federal funding is diminishing, these funds would help
meet the City’s current and future affordable housing needs by providing financial
assistance and services, and creating programs to increase, improve and preserve
the City’s rental and for sale housing stock affordable to extremely low, very low,
low, moderate, and middle income households.

Vote yes on Measure S to dedicate 2% of TOT funds for affordable housing.!2]

Arguments against

Official argument

The following official argument was submitted in opposition to the measure;]1]

This new tax increase on hotel guests would raise half a million dollars to help pay
for housing for low-income people. The City Council claims that the Governor’s
recent dissolution of redevelopment agencies has left the City short of funds for
affordable housing. But in fact, Healdsburg and other cities are receiving the same
money they were getting for housing. That money is no longer coming in the form
of redevelopment agency tax increments, but as part of restored general fund
property tax revenue. In other words, while the source of the funding has changed,
the amount of the funding has not changed. No new revenues should be required to
support affordable housing. Further, how much more of a financial strain can the
City put on tourists before they begin to say “Let’s go somewhere else”? Let’s not
find out. pi