RESOLUTION NUMBER 16-115

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CARSON,

CALIFORNIA, ORDERING THE SUBMISSION TO THE QUALIFIED

ELECTORS OF THE CITY OF A CERTAIN MEASURE TO APPROVE

TAXING CANNABIS RELATED BUSINESS ACTIVITIES

WHEREAS, if in the future cannabis business activities are permitted in Carson by either
a future Carson City Council, or the voters of Carson through a future ballot measure, then the
Carson City Council desires that a tax be in place and imposed on any such future cannabis
business activities; and

WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of Carson has called a General Municipal
Election to be held on Tuesday, November 8, 2016, by Resolution No. 16-079 adopted on July 5,
2016; and,

WHEREAS, on June 14, 2016 the Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors approved
the consolidation of the City of Carson General Election with the statewide General Election; and,

WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of Carson also desires to submit to the voters at
the General Municipal Election on November 8, 2016 a proposed ordinance to approve a cannabis
cultivation tax of maximum $25 per square foot of space utilized for cultivation and maximum
18% of proceeds on cannabis retail, cultivation, manufacturing, and testing, to be adjusted
annually on July 1 based on CPI.

NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CARSON,
CALIFORNIA, DOES HEREBY RESOLVE, DECLARE, DETERMINE AND ORDER AS
FOLLOWS:

Section 1. That the City Council of the City of Carson, pursuant to its right and
authority, hereby orders submitted to the voters at the General Municipal Election to be held on
Tuesday, November 8, 2016 the following question:

Cannabis Tax. If a future Carson City Council or if
voters of Carson through another ballot measure YES
permit cannabis business activities, shall an
ordinance establishing a cannabis tax of $25 per ~
square foot of space utilized for cultivation and 18%
of gross proceeds (adjusted annually on July 1 based
on CPI) apply on all cannabis related business NO
activities in Carson with annual revenues ranging
from $500,000 to $3.5 million for Carson, with no
sunset clause, be approved?___________________________________

Section 2. That the text of Ordinance 16-1599 to be submitted to the voters as a
proposed measure is attached as Exhibit “A” to this resolution.

RESOLUTION NO. 16-115
PAGE 2 OF 3

Section 3. That the vote requirement for the ballot measure to pass is a majority (50%
+1) of the votes cast.

Section 4. That in all particulars not recited in this resolution, the election shall be
held and conducted as provided by law for holding municipal elections.

Section 5. That notice of the time and place of holding the election is given and the
City Clerk is authorized, instructed and directed to give further or additional notice of the
election, in time, form and manner as required by law.

Section 6. That the City Clerk shall certify to the passage and adoption of this
Resolution and enter it into the book of original Resolutions.

Note: Signatures on Page 3

RESOLUTION NO. 16-115
PAGE 3 OF 3

PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of

STATE OF CALIFORNIA	)

COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES ) ss.
CITY OF CARSON	)

I,	Donesia L. Gause, CMC, City Clerk of the City of Carson, California, hereby attest to and
certify that the foregoing resolution, being Resolution No. 16-115, adopted by the Carson City
Council at its meeting held on the 11th day of August, 2016, by the following vote:

AYES:	COUNCIL	MEMBERS

NOES:	COUNCIL	MEMBERS

ABSTAIN:	COUNCIL	MEMBERS

ABSENT:	COUNCIL	MEMBERS

Mayor Robles, Davis-Holmes, Hilton, and Hicks

None

None

Santarina

City Clerk Donesia L. Gause, CMC

ORDINANCE NO. 16-1599

ORDINANCE OF THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF
CARSON, CALIFORNIA APPROVING A TAX ON
CANNABIS RELATED BUSINESS ACTIVITIES BY
ADDING CHAPTER 13 (CANNABIS TAX) TO ARTICLE VI
(TAXES AND LICENSES) OF THE CARSON MUNICIPAL
CODE

WHEREAS, if in the future cannabis business activities are permitted in Carson by either
a future Carson City Council, or the voters of Carson through a future ballot measure, then the
Carson City Council desires that a tax be in place and imposed on any such future cannabis
business activities; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to subdivision (b) of Section 2 of Article XIIIC of the California
Constitution and Section 53720 et. seq. of the Government Code the City Council is authorized
to impose a general tax upon submission of such general tax to the voters of the City and
approval by a majority of the voters voting on the issue, at an election consolidated with a
regularly scheduled general election for members of the governing body of the local government;
and

WHEREAS, in 1996 the California voters approved Proposition 215, the Compassionate
Use Act, codified as Health and Safety Code Section 11362.5, to exempt certain patients and
their primary caregivers from criminal liability under state law for the possession and cultivation
of cannabis for medical purposes; and

WHEREAS, in 2003 the California legislature enacted Senate Bill 420, the Medical
Marijuana Program Act, codified as Health and Safety Code Section 11362.7, et seq., and as later
amended, to clarify the scope of the Compassionate Use Act of 1996 relating to the possession
and cultivation of cannabis for medical purpose, and to authorize local governing bodies to adopt
and enforce laws consistent with its provisions; and

WHEREAS, in 2005 the California Board of Equalization began issuing seller’s permits
for sales consisting only of medical cannabis; and

WHEREAS, in 2015, the California legislature enacted the Medical Marijuana
Regulation and Safety Act (“MMRSA”) (AB 243, AB 266, and SB 643) to establish a
framework for regulating medical cannabis; and

WHEREAS, the U.S. House of Representatives has voted to stop federal law
enforcement from interfering with medical cannabis operations in the various states which have
decriminalized and/or authorized such operations; and

EXHIBIT A

Ordinance No. 16-1599
Page 1 of 12

WHEREAS, Business & Professions Code section 19320(d) provides that local
jurisdictions retain the power to assess fees and taxes, as applicable, on medical cannabis
operations that are licensed pursuant to MMRSA and the business activities of those licensees.

WHEREAS, on June 30, 2016, a statewide ballot measure to legalize, regulate and tax
nonmedical cannabis, the Control, Regulate and Tax Adult Use of Marijuana Act (“AUMA”),
qualified to appear on the November 8, 2016 statewide ballot, and if this statewide ballot
measure passes then the cultivation, sale, manufacture, use and possession of nonmedical
cannabis will be legal under California state law; and

WHEREAS, MMRSA and AUMA does not preempt local taxation of marijuana
operations; and

WHEREAS, presently the City has no local tax on either medical cannabis operations or
nonmedical cannabis operations; and

WHEREAS, the City Council estimates that the City could collect between $500,000 to
approximately $3.5 million in local sales tax revenue annually; and

WHEREAS, the City Council finds that taxation of cannabis and cannabis products can
generate the revenue needed by the City to ensure that its citizens and visitors are safe and that
cannabis operations comply with the City’s standards; and

WHEREAS, the City Council further finds that tax revenue from cannabis operations can
provide funds for additional City services to protect the general health and welfare of the citizens
of the City of Carson.

NOW, THEREFORE, THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF CARSON, CALIFORNIA
DO HEREBY ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. CHAPTER 13 (CANNABIS TAX) IS HEREBY ADDED TO ARTICLE VI
(TAXES AND LICENSES) OF THE CARSON MUNICIPAL CODE AS FOLLOWS:

CHAPTER 3.40 CANNABIS TAX

Section 61300. Definitions.

Section 61310. Tax.

Section 61320. Operation.

Section 61330. Returns and Remittances.

Section 61340. Failure to Pay Tax.

EXHIBIT A

Ordinance No. 16-1599
Page 2 of 12

Section 61350. Refunds.

Section 61360. Enforcement.

Section 61370. Debts; Deficiencies; Determinations; Hearings.

Section 61300. Definitions.

The following definitions apply to this chapter unless the context clearly denotes otherwise.

A.	“Cannabis” has the same definition as provided for in Bus. & Prof. Code § 19300.5(f) for
the term “cannabis,” and as may be amended.

B.	“Cannabis products” means cannabis that has undergone a process whereby the plant
material has been transformed into a concentrate, including, but not limited to,
concentrated cannabis, or an edible or topical product containing cannabis or
concentrated cannabis and other ingredients.

C.	“Cultivation” means any activity involving the planting, growing, harvesting, drying,
curing, grading, or trimming of cannabis.

D.	“Cultivation site” means any facility or location where cannabis is planted, grown,
harvested, dried, cured, graded, or trimmed, or that does all or any combination of those
activities.

E.	“Director” means the Carson Director of Community and Economic Development,
including his or her designee, or such person as may be appointed by the City Council.

F.	“Finance Director” shall mean the Director of Finance of the City of Carson and her/his
designee.

G.	“Location” means any parcel of land, whether vacant or occupied by a building, group of
buildings, or accessory buildings, and includes the buildings, structures, yards, open
spaces, lot width, and lot area. Where contiguous parcels are under common ownership or
control, such contiguous parcels shall be counted as a single “location.” For purposes of
this chapter “premises” shall have the same meaning as “location.”

H.	“Manufacturer” means a person that conducts the production, preparation, propagation,
or compounding of cannabis or cannabis products either directly or indirectly or by
extraction methods, or independently by means of chemical synthesis, or by a
combination of extraction and chemical synthesis at a fixed location that packages or
repackages cannabis or cannabis products or labels or re-labels its container.

I.	“Manufacturer 1” means a manufacturer who manufactures cannabis products using
nonvolatile solvents, or no solvents.

EXHIBIT A

Ordinance No. 16-1599
Page 3 of 12

J.	“Manufacturer 2” means a manufacturer who manufactures cannabis products using
volatile solvents.

K.	“Marijuana” has the same definition as provided in this chapter for the term “cannabis.”

L.	“Medical cannabis” means cannabis used for medical purposes in accordance with the
Compassionate Use Act (Health and Safety Code section 11362.5), the Medical
Marijuana Program Act (Health and Safety Code sections 11362.7 et seq.), and the
Medical Marijuana Regulation and Safety Act of 2015.

M.	“Medical cannabis dispensary” shall have the same meaning as Section 19300.5(n) of the
Business & Professions Code.

N.	“Minor” means a person under eighteen (18) years of age.

O.	“Nursery” means an operation that that produces only clones, immature plants, seeds, and
other agricultural products used specifically for the planting, propagation, and cultivation
of cannabis.

P.	“Operation” means an activity permitted by this chapter, including the retail distribution,
cultivation, manufacture, or testing of cannabis and cannabis products.

Q.	“Permit” means a regulatory license issued pursuant to this chapter, and such permit
constitutes a “local permit, license, or other authorization” as used in Bus. & Prof. Code §
19320(a).

R.	“Person” means any natural person, firm, corporation, partnership, club, or any
association or combination of natural persons, whether acting by themselves or through
any servant, agent or employee.

S.	“Proceeds” means total revenue and/or money received through the sale of goods and/or
services before any deductions or allowances (e.g., rent, cost of goods sold, taxes).

T.	“Retailer” means an operation for the retail sale and delivery of cannabis or cannabis
products to customers.

U.	“Space utilized as cultivation area” shall mean any space or ground, floor or other surface
area (whether horizontal or vertical) which is used during the cannabis germination,
seedling, vegetative, pre-flowering, flowering and harvesting phases, including without
limitation any space used for activities such as growing, planting, seeding, germinating,
lighting, warming, cooling, aerating, fertilizing, watering, irrigating, topping, pinching,
cropping, curing or drying cannabis or any such space used for storing any products,
supplies or equipment related to any such activities, no matter where such storage may
take place or such storage space may be located.

EXHIBIT A

Ordinance No. 16-1599
Page 4 of 12

V.	“Term” means a calendar month in regards to the monthly taxation of proceeds from an
operation for the manufacture or testing of cannabis; and, means the fiscal year in regards
to the annual taxation of the space utilized as cultivation area for cannabis.

W.	“Testing” means to perform tests on cannabis or cannabis products pursuant to a valid
certificate of accreditation from the State of California for such operations.

Section 61310. Tax.

A.	Cannabis Cultivation Tax. Every person cultivating cannabis in the City, either pursuant
to this Code or otherwise, and regardless of whether such operation has a valid permit
pursuant to this Code, shall pay an annual maximum tax of twenty-five dollars ($25) per
square foot for space utilized as cultivation area. Taxes imposed on cultivation area shall
be adjusted annually on July 1 after the date of imposition, and then July 1 of each
succeeding year based on the Consumer Price Index (“CPI”) for all urban consumers in
the Los Angeles-Riverside-Orange County areas as published by the United States
Government Bureau of Labor Statistics; however, no adjustment shall decrease any tax
imposed by this chapter, unless approved by the City Council.

B.	Cannabis Operations Tax. Every person engaged in conducting an operation for the retail
or wholesale distribution, cultivation, manufacture, transportation (including delivery), or
testing of cannabis, either pursuant to the Carson Municipal Code or otherwise, and
regardless of whether such operation has a valid permit pursuant to the Carson Municipal
Code, shall pay a maximum cannabis tax of 18% of proceeds or fractional part thereof.

Section 61320. Operation.

A.	Failure to pay the taxes set forth in this chapter shall be subject to penalties, interest
charges, and determinations of tax due as the City Council may establish and the City
may use any or all other enforcement remedies provided for in this Code, or pursuant to
state law.

B.	The City Council may impose the tax authorized by this chapter at a lower rate and may
establish exemptions, incentives, or other reductions, and penalties and interest charges or
determinations of tax due for failure to pay the tax in a timely manner, as otherwise
allowed by Code or California law. No action by the Council under this Section shall
prevent it from later increasing the tax or removing any exemption, incentive, or
reduction, and restoring the maximum tax specified in this chapter.

C.	The payment of the tax required pursuant to this chapter shall not be construed as
authorizing the conduct or continuance of any illegal business or of a legal business in an
illegal manner. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to authorize cannabis
operations.

EXHIBIT A

Ordinance No. 16-1599
Page 5 of 12

D.	Taxes provided for hereunder are not sales or use taxes and shall not be calculated or
assessed as such. The taxes shall not be separately identified or otherwise specifically
assessed or charged to any individual member, consumer or customer; rather, the taxes
are imposed upon the cannabis operation.

E.	The Finance Director shall promulgate rules, regulations, and procedures to implement
and administer this chapter to ensure the efficient and timely collection of the tax
imposed by this chapter, including without limitation, formulation and implementation of
penalties and interest to be assessed for failure to pay the tax as provided.

Section 61330. Returns and Remittances.

The Tax shall be due and payable as follows:

A.	Each person owing Tax, on or before the last business day of each term as established by
the Finance Director, shall prepare a tax return to the Finance Director of the total
proceeds, and the amount of Tax owed for the preceding term. At the time the Tax return
is filed, the full amount of the Tax owed for the preceding term shall be remitted to the
City.

B.	All tax returns shall be completed on forms provided by the Finance Director.

C.	Tax returns and payments for all outstanding taxes owed the city are immediately due the
Finance Director upon cessation of business for any reason.

D.	Whenever any payment, statement, report, request or other communication received by
the Finance Director is received after the time prescribed by this section for the receipt
thereof, but is in an envelope bearing a postmark showing that it was mailed on or prior
to the date prescribed in this section for the receipt thereof, or whenever the Finance
Director is furnished substantial proof that the payment, statement, report, request, or
other communication was in fact deposited in the United States mail on or prior to the
date prescribed for receipt thereof, the Finance Director may regard such payment,
statement, report, request, or other communication as having been timely received. If the
due day falls on Friday, Saturday, Sunday, or a federal holiday, the due day shall be the
last regular business day on which the City Hall is open to the public prior to the due
date.

E.	Unless otherwise specifically provided under other provisions of this chapter, the taxes
required to be paid pursuant to this chapter shall be deemed delinquent if not paid on or
before the due date specified by this section.

F.	The Finance Director is not required to send a delinquency or other notice or bill to any
person subject to the provisions of this chapter and failure to send such notice or bill shall
not affect the validity of any tax or penalty due under the provisions of this chapter.

EXHIBIT A

Ordinance No. 16-1599
Page 6 of 12

Any person who fails or refuses to pay any tax required to be paid pursuant to this chapter on or
before the due date shall pay penalties and interest as follows:

A.	A penalty equal to twenty-five percent of the amount of the Tax in addition to the amount
of the Tax, plus interest on the unpaid Tax calculated from the due date of the Tax at a
rate established by resolution of the City Council; and, an additional penalty equal to
twenty-five percent of the amount of the Tax if the tax remains unpaid for a period
exceeding one calendar month beyond the due date, plus interest on the unpaid Tax and
interest on the unpaid penalties calculated at the rate established by resolution of the City
Council.

B.	Whenever a check is submitted in payment of a Tax and the check is subsequently
returned unpaid by the bank upon which the check is drawn, and the check is not
redeemed prior to the due date, the taxpayer will be liable for the Tax amount due plus
penalties and interest as provided for in this section plus any amount allowed under state
law.

C.	The Tax due shall be that amount due and payable from the operative date of this chapter.

D.	The Finance Director may waive the first and second penalties of twenty-five percent
each imposed upon any person if:

1.	The person provides evidence satisfactory to the Finance Director that failure to pay
timely was due to circumstances beyond the control of the person and occurred
notwithstanding the exercise of ordinary care and the absence of willful neglect, and
the person paid the delinquent business tax and accrued interest owed the city prior to
applying to the Finance Director for a waiver.

2.	The waiver provisions specified in this subsection shall not apply to interest accrued
on the delinquent tax and a waiver shall be granted only once during any twenty-four
month period for taxation of proceeds, and only once during any five (5) year period
for taxation of space utilized as cultivation area for cultivation of cannabis.

Section 61350. Refunds.

A.	No refund shall be made of any Tax collected pursuant to this chapter, except as provided
in this Section.

B.	No refund of any Tax collected pursuant to this chapter shall be made because of the
discontinuation, dissolution, or other termination of an operation.

C.	Any person entitled to a refund of taxes paid pursuant to this chapter may elect in writing
to have such refund applied as a credit against cannabis Taxes for the next term.

EXHIBIT A

Ordinance No. 16-1599
Page 7 of 12

D.	Whenever the amount of any tax, penalty, or interest has been overpaid, paid more than
once, or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received by the city under this
chapter, such amount may be refunded to the claimant who paid the Tax provided that a
written claim for refund is filed with the Finance Director.

E.	The Finance Director shall have the right to examine and audit all the books and business
records of the claimant in order to determine the eligibility of the claimant to the claimed
refund. No claim for refund shall be allowed if the claimant therefor refuses to allow such
examination of claimant’s books and business records after request by the Finance
Director to do so.

F.	In the event that the Tax was erroneously paid and the error is attributable to the city, the
entire amount of the Tax erroneously paid shall be refunded to the claimant. If the error is
attributable to the claimant, the city shall retain the amount set forth in this chapter from
the amount to be refunded to cover expenses.

G.	The Finance Director shall initiate a refund of any Tax which has been overpaid or
erroneously collected whenever the overpayment or erroneous collection is uncovered by
a city audit of Tax receipts. In the event that the Tax was erroneously paid and the error is
attributable to the city, the entire amount of the Tax erroneously paid shall be refunded to
the claimant. If the error is attributable to the claimant, the city shall retain the amount set
forth in this chapter from the amount to be refunded to cover expenses.

Section 61360. Enforcement.

A.	It shall be the duty of the Finance Director to enforce each and all of the provisions of

this chapter.

B.	For purposes of administration and enforcement of this chapter generally, the Finance
Director, with the assistance of the City Attorney, may from time to time promulgate
administrative rules and regulations.

C.	The Finance Director shall have the power to audit and examine all books and records of
operations as well as persons engaged in the conducting of an operation, including both
state and federal income tax returns, California sales tax returns, logs, receipts, bank
records, or other evidence documenting the gross receipts of the operation, or persons
engaged in the conduct of an operation, for the purpose of ascertaining the amount of
Tax, if any, required to be paid by the provisions of this chapter, and for the purpose of
verifying any statements or any item thereof when filed by any person pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter. If such operations or person, after written demand by the
Finance Director, refuses to make available for audit, examination or verification such
books, records, or equipment as the Finance Director requests, the Finance Director may,
after full consideration of all information within the Finance Director’s knowledge
concerning the operation and activities of the person so refusing, make a determination of

EXHIBIT A

Ordinance No. 16-1599
Page 8 of 12

tax due in the manner provided in Section 3.40.080 of this chapter.

D.	The conviction and punishment of any person for failure to pay the required tax shall not
excuse or exempt such person from any civil action for the tax debt unpaid at the time of
such conviction. No civil action shall prevent a criminal prosecution for any violation of
the provisions of this chapter or of any state law requiring the payment of all taxes.

E.	Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter or any regulation or rule passed
in accordance herewith, or knowingly or intentionally misrepresenting to any officer or
employee of the City any material fact in procuring permits from the City as provided for
in this chapter, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.

Section 61361- Debts; Deficiencies; Determinations; Hearings.

A.	The amount of any tax, penalties, and interest imposed by the provisions of this chapter
shall be deemed a debt to the city and any person conducting an operation without also
making payment to the city of the taxes imposed by this chapter shall be liable in an
action in the name of the city in any court of competent jurisdiction for the amount of the
tax, and penalties and interest imposed on such operation.

B.	If the Finance Director is not satisfied that any statement filed as required under the
provisions of this chapter is correct, or that the amount of tax is correctly computed, the
Finance Director may compute and determine the amount to be paid and make a
deficiency determination upon the basis of the facts contained in the statement or upon
the basis of any information in his or her possession or that may come into his or her
possession. One or more deficiency determinations of the amount of tax due for a period
or periods may be made. When a person discontinues engaging in an operation, a
deficiency determination may be made at any time within three years thereafter as to any
liability arising from engaging in such business whether or not a deficiency determination
is issued prior to the date the tax would otherwise be due.

C.	Under any of the following circumstances, the Finance Director may make and give
notice of a determination of the amount of tax owed by a person under this chapter:

1.	If the person has not filed any statement or return required under the provisions of
this chapter.

2.	If the person has not paid any tax due under the provisions of this chapter.

3.	If the person has not, after demand by the Finance Director, filed a corrected
statement or return, or furnished to the Finance Director adequate substantiation of
the information contained in a statement or return already filed, or paid any additional
amount of tax due under the provisions of this chapter.

4.	If the Finance Director determines that the nonpayment of any tax due under this

EXHIBIT A

Ordinance No. 16-1599
Page 9 of 12

chapter is due to fraud, a penalty of twenty-five percent of the amount of the tax shall
be added thereto in addition to penalties and interest otherwise stated in this chapter.

5.	The notice of determination shall separately set forth the amount of any tax known by
the Finance Director to be due or estimated by the Finance Director, after
consideration of all information within the Finance Director’s knowledge concerning
the business and activities of the person assessed, to be due under each applicable
section of this chapter, and shall include the amount of any penalties or interest
accrued on each amount to the date of the notice of determination.

6.	The notice of determination shall be served upon the person either by handing it to
him or her personally, or by a deposit of the notice in the United States mail, postage
prepaid thereon, addressed to the person at the address of the location of the business
appearing on the face of the business tax certificate issued under this Code or to such
other address as he or she shall register with the Finance Director for the purpose of
receiving notices provided under this chapter; or, should the person have no business
tax certificate issued and should the person have no address registered with the
Finance Director for such purpose, then to such person’s last known address. For the
purposes of this section, a service by mail is complete at the time of deposit in the
United States mail.

D.	Within ten days after the date of service of a determination of the amount of tax owed by
a person under this chapter, the person may apply in writing to the Finance Director for a
hearing on the determination. If application for a hearing before the City is not timely
made, the tax assessed by the Finance Director shall become final. The procedures for
such a hearing shall be conducted as required by law and as follows:

1.	The City Council delegates its authority to conduct such a hearing on the
determination to an independent hearing officer. The compensation of the hearing
officer shall not depend on any particular outcome of the appeal. The hearing officer
shall have full authority and duty to preside over the hearing on the determination in
the manner set forth herein and as required by law.

2.	Within 30 days of the receipt of any such application for hearing, the Finance
Director shall cause the matter to be set for hearing before the independent hearing
officer, unless a later date is agreed to by the Finance Director and the person
requesting the hearing.

3.	Notice of the hearing shall be given by the Finance Director to the person requesting
the hearing not later than five days prior to the date of the hearing. For good cause,
the hearing officer may continue the administrative hearing from time to time. At the
hearing the applicant may appear and offer evidence to show why the determination
as made by the Finance Director should not be confirmed and fixed as the tax due. In
conducting the hearing, the hearing officer shall not be limited by the technical rules
of evidence. Failure of the person who applied for a hearing on the determination to

EXHIBIT A

Ordinance No. 16-1599
Page 10 of 12

appear shall not affect the validity of the proceedings or order issued thereon.

4.	Upon conclusion of the hearing, or no later than 10 days after the conclusion of the
hearing, the hearing officer shall determine and reassess the proper tax to be charged
and shall give written notice to the person in the manner prescribed in this chapter for
giving notice of determination, and the hearing officer shall submit its decision and
the record to the City Clerk. The decision of the hearing officer shall be final.

SECTION 2. EFFECTIVE DATE.

If a majority of the voters of the City of Carson voting at the General Municipal Election of
November 8, 2016 vote in favor of this Ordinance, then this Ordinance shall become a valid and
binding ordinance of the City of Carson, and shall be considered as adopted upon the date that
the vote is declared by the City Council of the City of Carson, and this Ordinance shall go into
effect ten (10) days after that date, pursuant to Election Code section 9217.

SECTION 3. CITY COUNCIL AUTHORITY TO AMEND

This is a City Council sponsored initiative Ordinance which otherwise would only be subject to
amendment by the voters of the City of Carson. However, pursuant to Section 9217 of the
California Elections Code, the City Council expressly reserves the right and authority to amend
the Ordinance to further the purposes and intent of the Ordinance (including but not limited to
amendment for more efficient administration as determined by the City Council) in any manner
that does not increase a tax rate, or otherwise constitute a tax increase for which voter approval is
required by Article XIII C of the California Constitution.

SECTION 4. SEVERABILITY.

If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or portion of this Ordinance is for any reason
held to be invalid or unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining portions
of this Ordinance shall nonetheless remain in full force and effect. The People hereby declare
that they would have adopted each section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or portion of this
Ordinance, irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, subsections, sentences, clauses,
phrases, or portions of this Ordinance be declared invalid or unenforceable.

SECTION 5. EXECUTION.

The Mayor of the City of Carson is hereby authorized and ordered to attest to the adoption of the
Ordinance by the voters of the City of Carson by signing where indicated below.

I hereby certify that the foregoing Ordinance was PASSED, APPROVED and ADOPTED by the
People of the City of Carson, California voting on the 8th day of November, 2016.

EXHIBIT A

Ordinance No. 16-1599
Page 11 of 12

Mayor

i

ATTEST:

City Clerk

APPROVED AS TO FORM:

City Attorney

EXHIBIT A

Ordinance No. 16-1599
Page 12 of 12