Sonoma County, California, Regional
Parks and Water Quality Improvement
Sales Tax, Measure J (November 2016)

| Text of measure

Ballot question

The following question appeared on the ballot:!1]

// To expand, maintain, and restore Sonoma County parks for future

generations; protect drinking water sources, streams, and rivers; protect
natural areas; preserve fish and wildlife habitat; reduce wildfire risk and;
increase walking, hiking, and biking trails, shall Sonoma County establish a
half cent sales tax in the unincorporated areas of Sonoma County for ten
years providing $9.5 million annually, with citizens’ oversight and annual
audits?]2)

Impartial analysis

The following impartial analysis of the measure was prepared by the office of the

Sonoma County Counsel:

// Measure J asks voters whether the County should impose a one-half of one
percent special sales tax in the unincorporated area of the County for a
period often years to fund Sonoma County Regional Parks improvements
and maintenance, and water quality protection projects listed in the
Expenditure Plan attached to the Measure. If two-thirds of the qualified
electors voting on Measure J vote for the special tax it will be approved. As
a special tax, funds only can be used for the specific purposes set forth in
the full text of the Measure printed in the sample ballot. The tax money will
be placed in a special fund maintained in the County Treasury, and will be
audited annually by an independent accountant.

The Expenditure Plan lists five categories of projects for funding, including
expanding and adding new trails, parks, recreational facilities, and
preserves; improving existing bike, hiking, and equestrian trails; protecting
water quality, fisheries, wildlife habitat and natural areas; increasing
environmental education, recreation, and community programs; and
improving park safety, access, and recreational facilities. Specific projects in
each of these categories are listed in the Expenditure Plan. The Expenditure
Plan provides that tax proceeds will be used to supplement existing funding
for Regional Parks. If legal environmental review, such as under the

California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) or other applicable law, is
required for any particular project, the Plan provides that it be performed
before the project is undertaken.

If voters approve Measure J, the Board of Supervisors will establish an
independent Citizens’ Oversight Committee to review the receipts and
expenditures from the tax. The Committee will produce an annual oral or
written report for the Board of Supervisors. Any written report will be
available as a public record. Each year, Regional Parks is required to
prepare a report detailing the prior fiscal year’s activities related to the tax
and projects funded by the tax. The report will be submitted to the Citizens’
Oversight Committee for review.

The tax proposed by the ordinance will become effective only if approved by
a two-thirds majority of those voting on the measure.

A “yes” vote on Measure J will authorize the County to increase the sales
tax rate from 8.25 percent to 8.75 percent, or 8.75 cents on each dollar in
the unincorporated area of the County.

The new rate would go into effect on April 1,2017, and remain in effect until
March 31,2027. The proposed sales tax would be imposed and collected by
merchants in the same manner as existing sales tax. The ordinance would
raise the County’s spending limit for the maximum period allowed by law to
allow the County to spend the revenue raised by the tax.

A “no” vote on Measure J will prohibit the County from imposing the
proposed sales tax.

The Board of Supervisors unanimously voted to place this measure on the
ballot. The full text of Measure J, including the Expenditure Plan, follows this
analysis.^

—Sonoma County Counsel^

Arguments in favor

Official argument

The following official argument was submitted in favor of the measure;!1!

Vote Yes on J to protect our beautiful Sonoma County Regional Parks that provide
clean water, wildlife and fish habitat, and opportunities to hike, bike and camp with
our families here at home. Measure J is a detailed plan to expand, maintain and
improve our parks for future generations; protect drinking water sources, streams
and rivers; protect natural areas; preserve fish and wildlife habitat; and increase
local trails.

Measure J Means Clean Water: By improving our parklands, we improve water
quality in Sonoma County creeks, streams and the Russian River, keeping our
drinking water clean. Measure J Means More Trails: It adds miles to our unique

trails, from Helen Putnam and Riverfront Regional Park, to the rugged Hood
Mountain, ideal for camping and enjoying nature. It expands the paved trail
network connecting Sonoma County’s towns, perfect for commuting, leisurely bike
rides and walks.

More Recreation Close to Home: Sonoma County Regional Parks provide access to
the Russian River, coastline and redwoods and give us safe places to explore the
outdoors, just like local city parks. Families and children can safely walk, run and
bicycle—improving our health, reducing obesity and lowering health care costs.
Measure J ensures access to well-maintained regional parks throughout our county.
Measure J Maintains, Expands and Improves Our Parkland: Thousands of acres of
parkland in Sonoma County are not open to the public. Measure J opens this land
with hiking, biking and horseback riding trails, and campgrounds for residents to
enjoy.

Strict Financial Protections: Measure J funds are dedicated to Sonoma County
Regional Parks, cannot be taken by the State and must be used for park maintenance
and improvements only. Independent citizen oversight and annual audits ensure
every penny is used for voter- approved purposes. Measure J expires in 10 years.
Protect Sonoma County Regional Parks for future generations so our children and
grandchildren can enjoy our parks just as we do. Vote Yes on J.

Arguments against

Official argument

The following official argument was submitted in opposition to the measure:^

Measure J is the largest of three county tax increases on this ballot. Measure J,
along with this year’s Measures L and Y for libraries and tourists, and last year’s
Measure A for roads, are all made necessary because of the county’s inability to
curb its pension costs. The Independent Citizens Pension Advisory Committee,
made up of independent county residents appointed by the board of supervisors to
evaluate the county’s pension reform efforts to date, recently reported that the
county spent $269 million in excess pension costs over the past ten years. That was
money that should have been used for libraries, parks and roads.

Somewhat counterintuitively, and certainly contrary to what Measure J supporters
will tell you, parks funding has actually grown over the years, increasing from $8.2
million in 2003 to $14 million last year. That 73% increase is double the rate of
inflation during the same time period.

We all use and enjoy our parks. Unfortunately, this tax disproportionately places the
burden on residents of the unincorporated areas of the county. The tax applies to the
unincorporated areas only meaning county residents will pay for a resource enjoyed
as much or more by city residents than county residents.

Fortunately, there is a better way to supplement parks funding. The county’s
Agricultural and Open Space Preservation District Tax paid by incorporated and
unincorporated residents alike arbitrarily caps at 10% the amount of open space

money that can be used for parks. Rather than asking unincorporated residents to
bear 100% of a new tax, supervisors can and should submit to all of the voters in
the county an amendment to the open space tax increasing the cap.

Measure J is unfair to county residents and there is a better way. Please vote no on
Measure JJ2]