MEASURE

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

The City Council of the City of Kerman has placed Measure on the November 8, 2016, ballot

to ask the City voters to approve an ordinance that would enact a three-fourths (3/4) cent
transactions and use tax (i.e. “sales tax”) for fifteen (15) years.

The Measure, if approved by the voters, would adopt an ordinance which is a City law. The
ordinance would be codified in the Kerman Municipal Code.

As a special tax, all proceeds from the special tax must be accounted for and are restricted for
use only on the following:	Construction of a Senior Center, Regional Fairgrounds, Police

Station, Animal Shelter and other similar projects. Up to 10% of taxes collected may also be
used for Downtown Revitalization.

The ordinance requires an annual audit performed by the City’s independent auditor and an
Annual Review Report. It also requires the establishment of a Special Sales Tax Oversight
Committee comprised of City residents to review the Annual Review Report and related records
and to make comments and recommendations to the City Council to ensure compliance with the
ordinance.

The special tax under this Measure automatically terminates in fifteen (15) years. If the
ordinance is approved, it may not be amended or repealed except by City voters.

Technically, the proposed “sales tax” is a combination of “sales and use tax” and “transactions
and use tax.” With some exceptions, both are levied on the sale or use of tangible personal
property sold at retail. Retailers collect the tax at the time of sale and remit the funds to the State
Board of Equalization which administers the tax.

As a special tax, the Measure requires a two-thirds (2/3) vote of the persons voting at the election
to pass.

A “Yes” vote on the measure is a vote to approve the ordinance adopting the special tax. A “No”
vote is a vote against the ordinance.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure____. If you desire a full copy of the

ordinance or measure, you may obtain a copy by contacting the Kerman City Clerk at
(559) 846-9380 and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you. The ordinance is also available
online at www.cityofkerman.org or by clicking “county clerk/registrar of voters” at
www .co .fresno .ca .us.

Hilda Cantu Montoy
City Attorney

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE

REGISTRAR OF VOTERS

AUG 0 5 2016

COUNTY CLERK

Measure

will provide the City of Kerman with the funds necessary to support* afiU^nfianty^^

quality of life in Kerman. Kerman is in need of several capital improvements for which there is

currently no funding. Measure_______would adopt a % cent sales tax and is expected to generate

approximately $650,000 annually. This funding will be locally controlled and would be used
exclusively for the following projects.

•	A new multi-generational senior center. The Kerman Senior Center is housed in a rented 91
year-old building that is in need of multiple upgrades and is not ADA compliant. Kerman's
senior programs are robust and highly utilized by the senior and community residents. The
current facility is not adequate for sustained growth in this area. Land has already been
acquired; however there is no funding for construction of the building itself.

•	A regional fairgrounds. Funding would allow the City to utilize 35 acres currently
designated for a Community Park to include the development of a regional fairgrounds.

•	A new police station. The Kerman Police station is housed in a building that was never

intended to be a police station. It is in dire need of repair and too small to meet the needs
of the public and our police force. Measure___would allow funding to build a new facility.

•	Animal Kennel and similar projects. An Animal Kennel is needed to be compliant with
national guidelines.

•	Downtown revitalization. Up to 10% of funding may be used for downtown revitalization to
enhance Kerman's appearance and preserve its historical character. A design has already
been developed. Funding would allow investment to begin.

Measure_______funding cannot be taken by the state and will be dedicated to these important

key projects. Let's support a better community. Vote YES on Measure__________.

The undersigned authors of the primary argument in favor of ballot Measure_at the

2016 General Election for the City of Kerman to be held on November 8, 2016 hereby state that
such argument is true and correct to the best pf their knowledge and belief.

VERIFICATION

Signed

p 9	’	"

Rhonda Armstrong
City Council

\

Signed-

Bill Nijjer
City Council

2018 AUG 5 pm12*.Q0:40

JUL 2 7 2016

RESOLUTION MO. 16-47	COuNTY	CLERK*.

REGISTRAR OF VOT&lS

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF KERMAN, SURMITflMTOTIOhS
CITY VOTERS AT THE NEXT REGULAR MUNICIPAL ELECTION TO BE HELD
NOVEMBER 8, 2016, A BALLOT MEASURE TO ADOPT AN ORDINANCE APPROVING A
RETAIL TRANSACTIONS AND USE SPECIAL TAX FOR CONSTRUCTION OF SENIOR
CENTER, REGIONAL FAIRGROUNDS, POLICE STATION, ANIMAL KENNEL, AND
OTHER SIMILAR PROJECTS, AS WELL AS DOWNTOWN REVITALIZATION NOT TO
EXCEED 10% AND REQUESTING THAT THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS CONSOLIDATE
THAT ELECTION WITH THE STATEWIDE ELECTION HELD ON THAT SAME DATE

cn

5

r-

CM

3

‘TJ

to

r-4

O

<N

WHEREAS, the City of Kerman provides essential public safety and park services to the residents
of Kerman; and

WHEREAS, a vibrant and healthy downtown promotes economic well-being and growth for the City
and encourages new business development in the City; and

WHEREAS, the City General Fund lacks funds for construction of senior center, regional fairgrounds,
police station, animal kennel and other similar projects, as well as downtown revitalization not to exceed 10%;
and

WHEREAS, the City Council has held meetings on March 2, March 16, and April 6, 2016, to discuss
and consider a potential sales tax for designated purposes; and

WHEREAS, the City Council has reviewed its economic forecast and determined that without an
additional revenue source, the City will be unable to provide essential capital projects for public safety and
parks; and

WHEREAS, at its meeting of April 6, 2016, the Council considered a staff report, public testimony,
and deliberated on the matter regarding submitting a ballot measure to the voters concerning a Special Sales
Tax; and

WHEREAS, the City Council desires to submit to the voters of the City of Kerman a ballot measure
proposal to add Chapter 3.16A to Title 3 of the Kerman Municipal Code to impose a .75% transactions and
use tax on retail sales in the City pursuant to California Revenue and Taxation Code Sections 7251 et seq.,
and 7285.9 et seq.; and

WHEREAS, the proposed special tax will be dedicated exclusively to construction of senior center,
regional fairgrounds, police station, animal kennel and other similar projects as well as downtown
revitalization not to exceed 10%; and

WHEREAS, the State Board of Equalization shall collect the tax from retailers subject to the tax and
remit the funds to the City.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the City Council of the City of Kerman as follows:

SECTION 1. The City Council submits to the voters of the City of Kerman at its next regular municipal
election to be held on November 8,2016, a ballot measure for consideration of an ordinance for establishment
of a Special Sales Tax for Construction of Senior Center, Regional Fairgrounds, Police Station, Animal
Kennel and other similar Projects, as well as Downtown Revitalization not to exceed 10%.

SECTION 2. The City Council requests the Fresno County Board of Supervisors that the election for this
measure be consolidated with the statewide election also held on November 8,2016.

SECTION 3. The question to be submitted to the voters with respect to the ballot measure shall be printed
on the election ballot with the title and in the form set forth as follows:

MEASURE _	YES

SALES TAX ORDINANCE FOR CAPITAL PROJECT CONSTRUCTION OF
SENIOR CENTER, REGIONAL FAIRGROUNDS, POLICE STATION, ANIMAL
KENNEL AND OTHER SIMILAR PROJECTS, INCLUDING DOWNTOWN
REVITALIZATION NOT TO EXCEED 10%.	NO

Shall the City of Kerman approve a 3/4 cent sales tax expended only for
construction of senior center, regional fairgrounds, police station, animal kennel,
and similar projects, and downtown revitalization up to 10%, estimated annual
amount $650,000, for 15 years, subject to audit, review, and Citizen Oversight
Committee?

SECTION 4. The following constitutes the synopsis of the measure to be voted on for purposes of meeting
the publication requirements of Elections Code Section 12111:

MEASURE TO BE VOTED ON

Notice is hereby given that the following measure is to be voted on at the general municipal
election to be held in the City of Kerman, on Tuesday, the 8th day of November, 2016.

ADOPTION OF ORDINANCE APPROVING A THREE QUARTER CENT (.75%)
TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX FOR CONSTRUCTION OF SENIOR CENTER, REGIONAL
FAIRGROUNDS, POLICE STATION, ANIMAL KENNEL, AND OTHER SIMILAR PROJECTS, AS
WELL AS DOWNTOWN REVITALIZATION NOT TO EXCEED 10%.

The proposed ordinance would approve a 3A cent (.75%) sales tax dedicated and expended only
for the construction of a senior center, regional fairgrounds, police station, animal kennel and
other similar projects. Up to ten percent of the proposed ordinance revenues may also be
expended for downtown revitalization. The sales tax would be subject to an annual audit and
annual review report as well as a Citizens Oversight Committee.

Dated:_______

City of Kerman

City Elections Official

SECTION 5. The full text of the ordinance submitted to the voters is attached as Exhibit ‘A’. The full text
of the proposed ordinance is not required to be printed in the Sample Ballot and Voters Pamphlet. However,
the full text of the measure shall be made available at the Office of the Fresno County Clerk/Registrar of
Voters and the Kerman City Clerk’s Office.

SECTION 6.	Passage of this measure requires a two-thirds majority of votes.

SECTION 7.	The City of Kerman requests that the Fresno County Clerk/Registrar of Voters conduct the

election and canvass the returns, and the City consents to reimburse the Registrar of Voters for all costs
incurred by said services.

SECTION 8. In all particulars not recited in this resolution, the election shall be held and conducted as
provided by law for holding municipal elections.

SECTION 9. Arguments in favor or against the proposed measure are permissible and shall be filed with
the Fresno County Clerk/Registrar in accordance with Elections Code Section 9282. Council Member
Rhonda Armstrong and Council Member Bill Nijjer are authorized to prepare and file a written argument in
favor of the proposed measure not to exceed 300 words on behalf of the City Council. The City Manager is
authorized to provide input to the Fresno County Clerk/Registrar in determining a letter designation for this
measure. In the event that an argument is filed against the Measure, Councilmember Armstrong and
Councilmember Nijjer are also authorized to submit a rebuttal argument on behalf of the City Council.

SECTION 10. The Fresno County Clerk/Registrar of Voters shall give the appropriate notices for the
election and shall conduct the election pursuant to appropriate provisions of state law. The City of Kerman
acknowledges the Fresno County Clerk/Registrar may conduct the election in accordance with Elections
Code 10418.

SECTION 11. The City Attorney shall prepare an impartial analysis of the measure in accordance with
Elections Code Section 9280 and file it with the Fresno County Clerk/Registrar of Voters.

SECTION 12. The City Clerk shall file a certified copy of this resolution with the Fresno County
Clerk/Registrar of Voters as required by applicable law. The City Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to
work with the Fresno County Clerk/Registrar of Voters and take all steps necessary to cause placement of
the Measure on the ballot.

SECTION 13. The City Clerk and City Attorney are authorized to make any typographical, clerical, non-
substantive corrections to this resolution as may be deemed necessary by the Fresno County Clerk/Registrar
of Voters.

The foregoing City of Kerman resolution was adopted at a regular meeting of the City Council of the City of
Kerman held on the 6th day of July, 2016 and passed at said meeting by the following vote:

AYES:	Nehring, Armstrong, Nijjer, Hill

NOES:	Yep

ABSENT:	None

ABSTAIN:	None

The foregoing resolution is hereby approved.

Stephen^. Hill
Mayor

ATTEST:

Marci Reyes
City Clerk



Exhibit ‘A’

ORDINANCE NO. 16-06

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF KERMAN ADDING CHAPTER 3.16A TO
THE KERMAN MUNICIPAL CODE IMPOSING A SPECIAL THREE QUARTER CENT
(.75 %) TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX FOR CONSTRUCTION OF SENIOR CENTER, REGIONAL
FAIRGROUNDS, POLICE STATION, ANIMAL KENNEL, AND OTHER SIMILAR PROJECTS, AS WELL
AS DOWNTOWN REVITALIZATION NOT TO EXCEED 10%

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF KERMAN DO ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1.	Chapter 3.16A is added to Title 9 of the Kerman Municipal Code to read as follows:

CHAPTER 3.16A

TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX FOR CAPITAL PROJECTS RELATING TO
CONSTRUCTION OF SENIOR CENTER, REGIONAL FAIRGROUNDS, POLICE STATION, ANIMAL
KENNEL, AND OTHER SIMILAR PROJECTS, AS WELL AS DOWNTOWN REVITALIZATION NOT TO

EXCEED 10%

Sections:

3.16.010A Title.

3.16.020A Operative Date.

3.16.030A Purpose.

3.16.040A Use of Tax Revenue-Deposit in Special Fund.

3.16.050A Annual Audit and Citizen Oversight.

3.16.060A Contract with State.

3.16.070A Transactions Tax Rate.

3.16.080A Place of Sale.

3.16.090A Use Tax Rate.

3.16.100A Adoption of Provisions of State Law.

3.16.110A Limitations on Adoption of State Law and Collection of Use Taxes.
3.16.120A Permit Not Required.

3.16.130A Exemptions and Exclusions.

3.16.140A Amendments.

3.16.150A Enjoining Collection Forbidden.

3.16.160A Severability

3.16.010A. Title. This ordinance shall be known as the Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance for
Construction of Senior Center, Regional Fairgrounds, Police Station, Animal Kennel, Other Similar Projects
and Downtown Revitalization not to exceed 10%. The City of Kerman hereinafter shall be called "City." This
ordinance shall be applicable in the incorporated territory of the City.

3.16.020A. Operative Date. "Operative Date" means the first day of the first calendar quarter
commencing more than 110 days after the adoption of this ordinance, the date of such adoption being as set
forth below.

3.16.030A. Purpose. This ordinance is adopted to achieve the following, among other purposes, and
directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish those purposes:

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing
with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code and Section 7285.91 of Part 1.7 of
Division 2 which authorizes the City to adopt this tax ordinance which shall be operative if two-thirds of the
electors voting on the measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax at an election called for that purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates provisions identical to those of the
Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California insofar as those provisions are not inconsistent with the
requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax and provides a measure therefore
that can be administered and collected by the State Board of Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as
fully as practicable to, and requires the least possible deviation from, the existing statutory and administrative
procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization in administering and collecting the California State
Sales and Use Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be administered in a manner that will be,
to the greatest degree possible, consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting the transactions and use taxes, and at the same time, minimize
the burden of record keeping upon persons subject to taxation under the provisions of this ordinance.

3.16.040A Use and Expenditure of Tax Revenue-Deposit in Special Fund.

A.	The proceeds of the tax imposed by this Chapter shall be placed in a special fund and shall be dedicated
and used only for City Council approved purposes set forth in this Section B. The Director of Finance shall
establish and keep such accounts as may be necessary to account for said taxes.

B.	All of the taxes collected under this Chapter shall be expended only for the following purposes:

1.	Capital Projects for Public Safety and Parks such as a new police station, a senior center,
youth recreation center, an animal kennel, park development and other similar projects.

2.	Downtown Revitalization so long as such expenditures do not exceed ten percent (10 %)
of the revenue generated by the taxes.

3.16.050A Annual Audit, Report, and Citizen Oversight.

A.	The revenues from the tax imposed by this Chapter shall be subject to the annual audit performed by the
City’s independent auditor of the City’s books, records, accounts, and fiscal procedures and which is reported
in the City’s Comprehensive Annual Financial Report.

B.	In addition to the annual audit, an Annual Review Report shall be prepared by the City setting forth the
amount of revenues received from the tax imposed by this Chapter, amount of disbursements, and
description of expenditures. The purpose is to assure accountability and the proper disbursement of the
proceeds of the taxes collected under this ordinance. The Annual Review Report shall be filed in the City
Clerk’s Office not later than January 1 of each fiscal year in which the tax is collected.

C.	A Special Sales Tax Oversight Committee comprised of City Residents shall be established by the City
Council to review the Annual Review Report and related records and to make comments and
recommendations to the City Council to ensure compliance with this ordinance.

3.16.060A Contract With State. Prior to the operative date, the City shall contract with the State
Board of Equalization to perform all functions incident to the administration and operation of this transactions
and use tax ordinance; provided, that if the City shall not have contracted with the State Board of Equalization
prior to the operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract and in such a case the operative date shall be
the first day of the first calendar quarter following the execution of such a contract.

3.16.070A Transactions Tax Rate. For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax
is hereby imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated territory of the City at the rate of three quarter cent
(.75 %) of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail in said
territory on and after the operative date of this ordinance.

3.16.080A Place of Sale. For the purposes of this ordinance, all retail sales are consummated at the
place of business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is delivered by the retailer or his
agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination. The
gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery charges, when such charges are subject to the state
sales and use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no permanent
place of business in the State or has more than one place of business, the place or places at which the retail
sales are consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by
the State Board of Equalization.

3.16.090A Use Tax Rate. An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other consumption
in the City of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on and after the operative date of this
ordinance for storage, use or other consumption in said territory at the rate of three quarter cent (.75 %) of
the sales price of the property. The sales price shall include delivery charges when such charges are subject
to state sales or use tax regardless of the place to which delivery is made.

3.16.100A Adoption of Provisions of State Law. Except as otherwise provided in this ordinance
and except insofar as they are inconsistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a part of this ordinance as though fully set forth herein.

3.16.110A Limitations on Adoption of State Law and Collection of Use Taxes. In adopting the
provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the name of this City shall
be substituted therefor. However, the substitution shall not be made when:

1.	The word "State" is used as a part of the title of the State Controller, State Treasurer, Victim
Compensation and Government Claims Board, State Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or the
Constitution of the State of California;

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against this City or any agency,
officer, or employee thereof rather than by or against the State Board of Equalization, in performing the
functions incident to the administration or operation of this Ordinance.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sections referring to the exterior boundaries
of the State of California, where the result of the substitution would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other
consumption of tangible personal property which would not otherwise be exempt from this tax while such
sales, storage, use or other consumption remain subject to tax by the State under the provisions of Part 1 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible
personal property which would not be subject to tax by the state under the said provision of that code.

4.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711, 6715, 6737, 6797 or 6828 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code.

B.	The word "City" shall be substituted for the word "State" in the phrase "retailer engaged in business in
this State" in Section 6203 and in the definition of that phrase in Section 6203.

3.16.120A Permit Not Required. If a seller's permit has been issued to a retailer under Section 6067
of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional transactor's permit shall not be required by this ordinance.

3.16.130A Exemptions and Exclusions.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the use tax the amount of any
sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or by any city, city and county, or county pursuant to
the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the amount of any state-administered
transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax the gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum products, to operators of aircraft
to be used or consumed principally outside the county in which the sale is made and directly and exclusively
in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property under the authority of the laws of this
State, the United States, or any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the City which is shipped to a point outside the City, pursuant
to the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by the retailer or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a
carrier for shipment to a consignee at such point. For the purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point
outside the City shall be satisfied:

a. With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject to registration pursuant
to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in
compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels registered under
Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration to an out-of-City address
and by a declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that such address is, in fact, his
or her principal place of residence; and

b. With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of business out-of-City and
declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, that the vehicle will be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to furnish the property for a fixed
price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such property, for any period of
time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the
operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, the sale or lease of tangible personal
property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which
any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice,
whether or not such right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this ordinance, the storage, use or other consumption
in this City of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a transactions tax under any state-
administered transactions and use tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of aircraft and used or consumed
by such operators directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or
property for hire or compensation under a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to
the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign government. This exemption is in addition to the
exemptions provided in Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of
California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered
into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the tangible personal property
arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such property for any period of time for which the
lessee is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by a lease prior to the operative date of this
ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, storage, use, or other consumption,
or possession of, or exercise of any right or power over, tangible personal property shall be deemed not to
be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease
has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is
exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in business in the City shall not be
required to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible personal property, unless the retailer ships or
delivers the property into the City or participates within the City in making the sale of the property, including,
but not limited to, soliciting or receiving the order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of business of the
retailer in the City or through any representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the City
under the authority of the retailer.

7.	"A retailer engaged in business in the City" shall also include any retailer of any of the following:
vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the
Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or
undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code.
That retailer shall be required to collect use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle,
vessel, or aircraft at an address in the City.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit against that tax any transactions tax or
reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district imposing, or retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant
to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code with respect to the sale to the person of the
property the storage, use or other consumption of which is subject to the use tax.

3.16.140A Amendments.

A.	All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7
of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2
of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part of this ordinance, provided however,
that no such amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this ordinance. The foregoing
amendments shall not require voter approval.

B.	The following amendments to this ordinance must be approved by the voters of the City: (i) increasing
the tax rate or revising the methodology for calculating the tax such that a tax increase would result; (ii)
imposing the tax on transactions and uses not previously subject to the tax (unless such amendment occurs
automatically by operation of preceding paragraph A); (iii) amending the purposes and/or use for which the
tax is collected.

3.16.150A Enjoining Collection Forbidden. No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or
equitable process shall issue in any suit, action or proceeding in any court against the State or the City, or
against any officer of the State or the City, to prevent or enjoin the collection under this ordinance, or Part
1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.

3.16.160A Severability. If any provision of this ordinance or the application thereof to any person or
circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the ordinance and the application of such provision to other
persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

3.16.170A Sunset Clause. This ordinance shall terminate fifteen years from the Operative Date set
forthin in Section 3.16.020A of this ordinance.

SECTION 2. Compliance with the California Environmental Quality Act. The approval of this
ordinance is exempt from the California Environmental Quality Act (Public Resources Code Sections 21000
et seq., “CEQA,” and 14 Cal. Code Reg. Sections 15000 et. seq., “CEQA Guidelines”). This ordinance
imposes a special tax that can be used only for any legitimate governmental purpose as specified in the
ordinance. It is not a commitment to any specific project that may result in a potentially significant physical
impact on the environment.

SECTION 3. Two-Thirds Voter Approval, The tax imposed by this ordinance is a special tax. This tax
shall be effective only if approved by two-thirds of the City’s voters voting thereon at the November 8, 2016,
City election.

SECTION 4. Effective Date. This ordinance relates to the levying and collecting of the City transactions
and use taxes and shall take effect immediately.

SECTION 5. Certification and Publication. The City Clerk shall certify the final approval of this
Ordinance, publish the same as required by law, and forward a copy of the adopted Ordinance to the Board
of Equalization.

********

The foregoing ordinance was introduced at a regular meeting of the City Council of the City of Kerman held
on July 6, 2016, and was passed and approved for placement on the ballot by a 2/3 vote of the City Council
at a noticed public hearing of the City Council held on July 20, 2016, by the following vote:

AYES:	Nehring, Nijjer, Armstrong Hill
NOES:	None
ABSENT:	Yep
ABSTAIN:	None

The foregoing ordinance was adopted by the voters of the City of Kerman at the regular election held on
November 8, 2016 by the following vote:

YES:

NO:

The foregoing ordinance is hereby approved.

ATTEST-

XJ

Marci Reyes
City Clerk

Stephen B. Hill
Mayor