CITY OF SAN DIEGO

(This Measure will appear on the ballot in the following form.)

MEASURE N

NON-MEDICAL CANNABIS BUSINESS TAX. If California voters approve Proposition
64 legalizing marijuana in the state, shall the City adopt an ordinance imposing a gross
receipts tax, for general revenue purposes, on non-medical cannabis (also known as
marijuana) businesses operating in the City, initially set at 5% and increasing to 8% on
July 1, 2019, having a maximum rate of 15%, generating an undetermined amount of
revenue and continuing indefinitely?

This measure requires approval by a simple majority (over 50%) of the voters voting on the measure.

Full text of this measure follows the arguments.

OFFICIAL TITLE AND SUMMARY

BALLOT TITLE

Non-Medical Cannabis Business Tax

BALLOT SUMMARY

This measure would amend the San Diego Municipal Code to authorize the City to
impose a tax of up to 15% on the gross receipts of non-medical cannabis businesses operating in
the City of San Diego. Cannabis is also known as marijuana. This tax would only be imposed if
voters also approve a statewide initiative, Proposition 64, Marijuana Legalization Initiative Statute,
which also appears on the November 8, 2016 ballot.

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

This measure seeks voter approval to allow the City of San Diego to impose a new
Cannabis Business Tax of up to 15% on the gross receipts of non-medical (recreational)
cannabis businesses operating in the City. Cannabis is also known as marijuana.

This tax would be imposed only if such businesses become legal in the State of
California, if California voters also approve Proposition 64, the Marijuana Legalization Initiative
Statute, on the November 8, 2016 statewide ballot.

Existing state law does not authorize the sale of non-medical cannabis. This measure
does not permit businesses to engage in activities that are otherwise illegal. The City also does
not currently permit non-medical cannabis businesses to locate or operate in the City.

PR-09L0-N-1

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS (CONTINUED)

If approved by voters, the City measure would amend the San Diego Municipal Code
by adding a new Article 4 to Chapter 3 of the San Diego Municipal Code to allow the City to
impose the tax.

Cannabis businesses are defined in the ordinance as businesses involved in the
distribution, delivery, dispensing, exchanging, bartering or sale of cannabis. This includes
transporting, manufacturing, cultivating, compounding, converting, processing, preparing, storing,
packaging, and wholesale or retail sales of cannabis and cannabis products.

Medical marijuana consumer cooperatives licensed by the City would be exempt from
the cannabis business tax, as would certain transactions involving patients and primary
caregivers under the Compassionate Use Act.

Gross receipts is generally defined as the total revenue or compensation received by a
cannabis business without any deduction for the cost of operating the business.

The maximum tax rate permitted by the measure would be 15%. Upon the effective
date of the ordinance, the tax rate would be set at 5%, increasing to 8% on July 1,2019. The City
Council may, by ordinance, decrease or increase the tax rate at any time thereafter.

The ordinance includes provisions specifying how the tax administrator, the City
Treasurer, would issue cannabis business tax certificates and collect the tax, which would be
remitted by cannabis businesses to the City on a monthly basis. The measure also includes
provisions for handling delinquencies, penalties, appeals and for the enforcement of the taxing
provisions.

If approved by voters, the ordinance could be amended by the City Council so long as
amendments do not raise the maximum tax rate in excess of 15% of gross receipts and do not
tax businesses or activities that were previously not subject to the tax.

It is not possible to calculate the amount of revenue that could be generated by the tax
as it is unknown how many businesses will be allowed to operate in the City, nor is it possible to
estimate their gross receipts. If imposed, the tax would continue indefinitely unless it is repealed
by the City Council or the voters.

The City Council proposed this measure and approved its placement on the ballot. If
approved by voters, the measure would become effective after the City Council adopts a
resolution certifying the results of the November election.

PR-09L0-N-2

FISCAL IMPACT STATEMENT

This measure would establish a Cannabis Business Tax (CBT) on non-medical cannabis
(marijuana) businesses in the City of San Diego to raise revenue for general governmental
purposes of the City. Because non-medical cannabis businesses are currently illegal in California,
this measure is contingent on the passage of Proposition 64, the Adult Use of Marijuana Act,
which also appears on the November 2016 ballot. Should both items be approved by voters, the
CBT would become effective after certification of the election results. Should Proposition 64 fail to
be approved by the voters statewide, the local CBT measure would become null and void.

Approval of this measure would establish a gross receipts tax on non-medical cannabis
businesses that operate or provide services within the City, including retail stores, delivery
services, cultivators, and distributors. Upon passage of the measure, the CBT rate would be set
at 5% of gross receipts. On July 1, 2019, the tax rate would increase to 8%. The City Council
would have the authority to either decrease or increase the CBT by ordinance at any time, subject
to a maximum rate of 15%.

This measure’s impact would be limited to the effects of a City-imposed gross receipts tax on
non-medical cannabis. It would not affect other State-imposed taxes, nor would it affect land use
regulations related to medical or non-medical cannabis businesses.

Fiscal impacts associated with this ballot measure include increased General Fund revenue from
CBT paid to the City, as well as increased General Fund expenditures on administrative costs
related to tax collection. These increased revenues and costs depend on a number of unknown
factors, making them difficult to project. These variables include:

•	The number of non-medical cannabis businesses permitted in the City, which has yet to
be determined, and the rate at which the industry develops.

•	The consumer demand for non-medical cannabis within the San Diego region,
including availability in neighboring jurisdictions.

•	The price of non-medical cannabis, which may change over time.

For illustrative purposes, the City and County of Denver, CO, which has roughly half the
population of the City of San Diego, currently taxes non-medical cannabis sales. In 2015, Denver
reported gross retail cannabis sales (excluding medical) of approximately $220 million from an
average of 128 retail outlets. Adjusting Denver’s sales for San Diego’s population gives an
estimated hypothetical sales figure for San Diego of $440 million. If the proposed CBT were
applied to this amount at the initial rate of 5%, the tax would raise approximately $22 million
annually. At 8%, annual revenue under this scenario would be approximately $35 million. Actual
revenue would be significantly less or more depending on the unknown factors described above.

While administrative costs are uncertain and would vary based on the number of regulated
cannabis businesses, the City Treasurer estimates CBT administration costs could necessitate
increased contractual expenditures and the hiring of six new positions at a cost of approximately
$650,000 annually.

PR-09L0-N-3

Measure N will impose a gross-receipts tax on recreational marijuana businesses operating
within the City of San Diego only if voters statewide choose to legalize marijuana by passing
Proposition 64, the Adult Use of Marijuana Act. The purpose of Measure N is to ensure that the
city has the resources to properly regulate the marijuana industry without hurting our investment
in core city services, such as neighborhood infrastructure and public safety.

Most large California cities either already have or are considering a similar measure in

anticipation of the likely passage of Proposition 64. By passing Measure N, San Diego will be
aligned with the best practices of other California cities preparing for the inherent strain on the
city's budget caused by marijuana legalization. For example, San Jose, Los Angeles,
Sacramento, and Santa Cruz all impose a similar tax on marijuana to deal with the impacts to
their cities' budgets for first responders and code compliance.

Measure N is fiscally responsible, timely, and prudent. In recent years, the City of San Diego
has been able to increase investment in core city services by anticipating new costs, efficiently
managing new revenues, and making cost-cutting reforms. Measure N is consistent with this
philosophy. By proactively imposing a gross-receipts tax on recreational marijuana, the city's
budget will be protected from any new costs associated with marijuana legalization, and protect
resources for investment in streets, sidewalks, parks, police and firefighters.

Measure N is the right policy at the right time for San Diego, which is why it received
bipartisan support from the San Diego City Council.

We respectfully request a Yes vote on Measure N.

Councilmember MARK KERSEY

Council President SHERRI LIGHTNER

PR-09L0-N-4

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE N

The marijuana tax percentages recommended in this ballot measure will NOT compensate in any
way for the increased teen marijuana use, drug addiction, marijuana impaired driving, poisonings
from marijuana concentrates and edibles, and mental health problems, that will come from
increased recreational use of marijuana.

City government's first priority is the public health and safety of its citizens and neighborhoods,
not facilitating drug use.

The tax money will be dropping into the general fund (the black hole, as described recently by a
city councilman) and NOT going to support code and law enforcement actions or DUI prevention,
treatment programs, or student prevention education.

As Colorado's Governor Hickenlooper learned too late regarding that state’s big hopes for
marijuana taxes: "We are not making any extra revenue from this”.

The City does not have now nor will have in the future via marijuana taxes, the resources to track
down marijuana dealers to collect unpaid taxes from mainly cash transaction, This has been
demonstrated by the continuing operations of 40 plus unpermitted and illegal marijuana
storefronts.

A proposed tax on recreational marijuana infers that the City Council will support the sale,
manufacture, and neighborhood cultivation of recreational marijuana in our City. The City Council
should first engage the public in a conversation regarding such a dramatic and far reaching public
policy. This is a significant change from their public stance that they support marijuana as
medicine but not the general sale, cultivation and advertising of recreational pot.

San Diego should not legitimize the sale, manufacture, unregulated neighborhood cultivation of
pot, and marijuana advertising on billboards, TV, radio and social media, all in a cynical scheme
to profit from the recreational use of marijuana. Vote No on Measure N.

SCCTTCHIPMAN
San Diegans for Safe
Neighborhoods and Small
Business Owner

SHIRLEY FORBING

San Diego State University

Professor Emeritus, Ed.D.

JAMES BENJAMIN HARRISON
Pastor, Visions of God Ministries
and Pre-school Administrator

CATHIE JOLLEY	JON	FELLERS,	PhD.,	MD

President of Pacific Beach
Town Council

PR-09L0-N-5

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE N

ORDINANCE NUMBER O-_________________(NEW	SERIES)

DATE OF FINAL PASSAGE_______________

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF SAN DIEGO AMENDING CHAPTER 3 OF THE
SAN DIEGO MUNICIPAL CODE BY ADDING ARTICLE 4, TO BE NUMBERED AND
TITLED, PERTAINING TO THE CANNABIS BUSINESS TAX ON NON-MEDICAL
CANNABIS BUSINESSES DOING BUSINESS IN THE CITY OF SAN DIEGO.

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF SAN DIEGO:

Chapter 3 of the San Diego Municipal Code is hereby amended to add a new Article 4 to be
numbered, titled and to read as follows:

Article 4: Cannabis Business Tax

Division 1: Cannabis Business Tax

§34.0101_____________Title	and	Purpose.

(a)	Title. This Article shall be known as the Cannabis Business Tax
Ordinance of the City of San Diego.

(b)	Purpose and Intent. It is the purpose and intent of the People of the City of
San Diego that there be a tax imposed on non-medical cannabis
businesses in the City and that such tax is enacted solely to raise revenue
for the general governmental purposes of the City and not for purposes of
regulation or raising revenues for regulatory purposes. All of the proceeds
from the tax imposed bv this Article shall be placed in the City's general
fund and used for general governmental purposes.

§34.0102________Tax imposed.

There is established and imposed a Cannabis Business Tax at the rate set
forth in this Article.

§34.0103__________Definitions.

Except where the context otherwise reouires, the definitions given in this
section shall govern the application and interpretation of this Article. Each
word or phrase defined in this Division appears in the text of this Division in
italicized letters.

(a)	“Cannabis” means all parts of the plant Cannabis sativa L.. whether
growing or not: the seeds thereof: the resin extracted from any part of the
plant: and every compound, manufacture, oil, salt, derivative, mixture, or
preparation of the plant, its seeds or resin.

(b)	“Cannabis Business” means any activity which entails the distribution,
delivery, dispensing, exchanging, bartering or sale of non-medical
Cannabis. including but not limited to. transporting, manufacturing,
cultivating, compounding, converting, processing, preparing, storing,
packaging, wholesale, or retail sales of Cannabis and any ancillary
products in the City, whether or not carried on for gain or profit. Medical

PR-09L0-N-6

marijuana activities authorized under Health and Safety Code section
11362.765. as it may be amended from time to time, are not Cannabis
Business under this Article. Medical marijuana consumer cooperatives
permitted pursuant to this Code are not Cannabis Businesses under this
Article.

(c)	“Cannabis Business Tax” means the tax due for engaging in Cannabis
Business in the City.

(d)	“Employee” means each and every person engaged in the operation or
conduct of any business, whether as owner, member of the owner's family,
partner, associate, agent, manager or solicitor, and each and every other
person employed or working in such business for a wage, salary,
commission or room and board.

(e)	“Engaged in Cannabis Business” means the commencing, conducting,
operating, managing or carrying on of a Cannabis Business and the
exercise of corporate or franchise powers, whether done as owner, or bv
means of an officer, agent, manager, employee, or otherwise, whether
operating from a fixed location in the City or coming into the City from an
outside location to engage in such activities. A person shall be deemed
engaged in Cannabis Business within the City if:

(1)	Such person or person’s employee maintains a fixed place of location
for Cannabis Business purposes, in whole or in part, within the City
for the benefit or partial benefit of such person;

(2)	Such person or person's employee owns or leases real property
within the City for Cannabis Business purposes:

(3)	Such person or person’s employee regularly maintains a stock of
tangible personal property in the City for sale in the ordinary course of
such Cannabis Business:

(4)	Such person or person's employee regularly conducts solicitation of
Cannabis Business within the City, which may be demonstrated bv
the use of signs, circulars, cards or any other advertising media-
including the use of internet or telephone solicitation: or

(5)	Such person or person’s employee uses the streets within the City in
connection with the operation of motor vehicles, or other methods of
transportation, for Cannabis Business purposes.

The foregoing specified activities shall not be a limitation on the meaning of
“engaged in Cannabis Business.”

If! “Gross Receipts,” except as otherwise specifically provided, means the
total amount actually received or receivable from all sales: the total
amount or compensation actually received or receivable for the
performance of any act or service, of whatever nature it may be. for
which a charge is made or credit allowed, whether or not such act or
service is done as a part of or in connection with the sale of materials,
goods, wares or merchandise: discounts, rents, royalties, fees.
commissions, dividends, and gains realized from trading in stocks or

PR-09L0-N-7

bonds, however designated. Included in Gross Receipts shall be all
receipts, cash, credits and property of any kind or nature, without any
deduction therefrom on account of the cost of the property sold, the cost
of materials used, labor or service costs, interest paid or payable, or
losses or other expenses whatsoever, except that the following shall be
excluded therefrom:

(1)	Cash discounts allowed and taken on sales:

(2)	Credit allowed on property accepted as part of the purchase price
and which property may later be sold, at which time the sales price
shall be included as Gross Receipts;

(3)	Any tax required bv law to be included in or added to the purchase
price and collected from the consumer or purchaser;

(4)	Such part of the sale price of any property returned bv purchasers to
the seller as refunded bv the seller bv wav of cash or credit
allowances or return of refundable deposits previously included in

Gross Receipts:

(5)	Receipts from investments where the holder of the investment
receives only interest and/or dividends, royalties, annuities and
gains from the sale or exchange of stock or securities solely for a
person’s own account, not derived in the ordinary course of a
business;

(6)	Receipts derived from the occasional sale of used, obsolete or
surplus trade fixtures, machinery or other eouipment used bv the
operator in the regular course of the operator’s business;

(7)	Cash value of sales, trades or transactions between departments or
units of the same business;

(8)	Transactions between a partnership and its partners:

(9)	Receipts from services or sales in transactions between affiliated
corporations. An affiliated corporation is a corporation:

(A)	The voting and non-voting stock of which is owned at least 80
percent bv such other corporation with which such transaction is
had; or

(B)	Which owns at least 80 percent of the voting and non-voting
stock of such other corporation: or

(C)	At least 80 percent of the voting and non-voting stock of which is
owned bv a common parent corporation which also has such
ownership of the corporation with which such transaction is had.

(10)	Transactions between a limited liability company and its member(s).
provided the limited liability company has elected to file as a
Subchapter K entity under the Internal Revenue Code and that such
transaction(s) shall be treated the same as between a partnership
and its partner(s) as specified in section 34.0103(f);

PR-09L0-N-8

(11)	Receipts of refundable deposits, except that such deposits when
forfeited and taken into income of the business shall not be excluded
when in excess of one dollar; and

(12)	Amounts collected for others where the business is acting as an
agent or trustee and to the extent that such amounts are paid to
those for whom collected. These agents or trustees must provide the
Tax Administrator with the names and the addresses of the others
and the amounts paid to them. This exclusion shall not apply to any
fees, percentages, or other payments retained bv the agent or
trustees.

“Gross Receipts” subject to the business tax shall be that portion of gross
receipts relating to Cannabis Business conducted within the City.

(g)	“Officer” means any natural individual serving as an officer of a
corporation, a member of a partnership, a member or manager of a limit
liability company, or in a similar executive capacity in any other legal entity,
who is under a duty to perform on behalf of the corporation, partnership,
limited liability company or other legal entity.

(h)	“Operator'’ means any person engaged in Cannabis Business as the owner
of such Cannabis Business. whether such ownership is partial or full.
Where an Operator is a corporation, partnership, limited liability company
or other legal entity, the acts and omissions of the Operator shall be
deemed to be the acts and omissions of its Officers. Independent
contractors engaged in Cannabis Business are Operators for the purposes
of this Article.

(i)	“Person” means, without limitation, any natural individual, organization,
firm, trust, common law trust, estate, partnership of any kind, association,
syndicate, club, joint stock company, joint venture, limited liability
company, corporation (including foreign, domestic, and nonprofit),
cooperative, receiver, trustee, guardian, or other representative appointed
bv order of any court.

(11 “Sale” means and includes any sale. exchange, or barter.

(k)	“Tax Administrator” or “administrator” means the City Treasurer or such
other administrator designated bv the Mayor to administer this Article.

§34.0104_________Business	Tax	Certificate	Required

(a)	It is unlawful for any Operator to engage in any Cannabis Business in the
City without first having obtained a business tax certificate from the City.
Any person who fails to obtain the business tax certificate reouired bv this
Article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Operators exclusively engaged in
Cannabis Business taxed under this Article shall be exempt from the
provisions of Chapter 3, Article 1 of this Code.

PR-09L0-N-9

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE N (CONTINUED)

(b)	The issuance of a business tax certificate shall not entitle any person to
engage in any Cannabis Business without first complying with the
reguirements of this Code and all other applicable laws.

(c)	It is unlawful to use or refer to a business tax certificate issued under this
Article in any advertisement, or to present or represent such certificate as
a license or permit reguired bv other provisions of this Code or the laws of
the State of California or the County of San Diego.

(d)	Any person claiming the activities of such person are not subject to the tax
imposed bv this Article shall, upon the reguest of the Tax Administrator.
furnish appropriate evidence, to the satisfaction of the Tax Administrator,
that such person is not subject to the tax.

$34.0105_________Application - Form and Contents

(a)	Every person reguired to have a business tax certificate under the
provisions of this Article shall make application for the same, or for renewal
of the same, to the Tax Administrator. The application shall be a written
statement upon a form or forms provided bv the Tax Administrator and shall
be signed bv the applicant under penalty of perjury. The application shall
set forth such information as may be reguired and as may be reasonably
necessary to enable the Tax Administrator to administer the provisions of
this Article, including a representation bv the applicant that any state or local
licenses or permits reguired to engage in a Cannabis Business have been
obtained. Failure to provide information reguired bv the Tax Administrator
shall authorize the Tax Administrator to not issue a business tax certificate
to the applicant.

(b)	The information or data obtained from an examination or audit, or from any
statement reguired hereunder, shall be used for official City purposes only,
and shall not be provided to any person for any other purpose except as
provided in this section, or as otherwise reguired bv law.

(c)	Nothing in this section shall prohibit the Tax Administrator from furnishing to
any citizen upon reguest the name under which the business is conducted.
the address and type of business and the name of the owner of the
business, including the names of partners, if a partnership, and the names
of officers. if a corporation.

(d)	Any person who willfully makes, provides, or signs any false or untrue
statement which is filed or furnished pursuant to this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor.

$34.0106 Transferability

Business tax certificates issued under this Article are nontransferable

$34.0107 Branch Establishments

Separate business tax certificates must be obtained for each branch
establishment or business location.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE N (CONTINUED)

§34.0108 Posting and Keeping Certificates

Except as otherwise specifically provided in this Article, business tax

certificates must be kept and posted in the following manner:

(a)	Any person engaging in Cannabis Business at a fixed location shall keep
the certificate posted in a conspicuous place upon the premises where
such Cannabis Business is conducted.

(b) Any person engaging in Cannabis Business in the City of San Dieao. but
not operating from a location, shall keep a copy of the business tax
certificate or original business tax certificate upon his or her person at all
times while engaging in the business.

(c)	Any person engaging in Cannabis Business taxed under this Article shall
exhibit a valid business tax certificate upon request of the Tax
Administrator or any peace officer.

§34.0109 Other Licenses. Permits. Taxes. Fees or Charges

(a)	Nothing contained in this Article shall be deemed to repeal, amend, be in
lieu of, replace or in any wav affect any requirements for any license or
permit required by, under or by virtue of any provision of any other
chapter or article of this Code or any other ordinance or resolution of the
City, nor be deemed to repeal, amend, be in lieu of, replace or in any wav
affect any tax, fee or other charge imposed, assessed or required by,
under or by virtue of any other chapter or article of this Code or any other
ordinance or resolution of the Citv.

(b)	Persons may not lawfully engage in Cannabis Business to be taxed by
this Article without first obtaining any permit, certificate, license or other
evidence of permission to engage in Cannabis Business required by the
City and any license required to engage in Cannabis Business by the
State of California.

§34.0110 Payment of Tax Does Not Authorize Unlawful Business

(a)	The payment of a Cannabis Business Tax required bv this Article, and its
acceptance bv the City, shall not entitle any person to carry on any
Cannabis Business unless the person has complied with all of the
requirements of this code and all other applicable laws.

(b)	No Cannabis Business Tax paid under the provisions of this Article shall be
construed as authorizing the conduct or continuance of any illegal or unlawful
business, or any business in violation of any ordinance of the Citv.

§34.0111 Payment - Location

The tax imposed under this Article shall be paid to the Citv Treasurer in the lawful
currency of the United States, at the Offices of the Citv Treasurer in
San Diego. California, or at another location as permitted or required bv the Citv
Treasurer. Lawful currency shall mean any coin, currency or negotiable
instrument, exchangeable for said coin or currency, which the United States
Congress has declared to be a national legal tender.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE N (CONTINUED)

$34.0112 Amount of Business Tax Owed

(a)	Every Operator engaged in Cannabis Business in the City shall pay a Cannabis
Business Tax at a rate of up to 15 percent of Gross Receipts. Commencing on
[effective datel. the Cannabis Business Tax rate shall be five percent of Gross
Receipts.

(b)	Notwithstanding the maximum tax rate of 15 percent of Gross Receipts
imposed under subsection 34.0112(a), the City Council may, in its discretion, at
any time by ordinance, implement a lower tax rate for all Cannabis Businesses
or establish differing tax rates for different categories of Cannabis Businesses.
as defined in such ordinance, subject to the maximum rate of 15 percent of
Gross Receipts. The City Council may, by ordinance, also increase any such
tax rate from time to time, not to exceed the maximum tax rate of 15 percent of
Gross Receipts established under subsection 34.0112(a).

(c)	Commencing on July 1. 2019, the Cannabis Business Tax rate shall be set
at eight percent of Gross Receipts unless the City Council, by ordinance,
takes action to set a different tax rate, not to exceed 15 percent of Gross
Receipts.

34.0113 Remitting and Reporting

The Cannabis Business Tax imposed by this Article shall be due and payable as

follows:

(a)	Each Operator shall remit monthly the full amount of the tax owed from the
previous month with the appropriate approved return form available from the
Tax Administrator.

(b)	Returns and taxes remitted monthly by an Operator and actually received bv
the Tax Administrator on or before the last day of the following month shall
be deemed timely filed and remitted: otherwise, the taxes are delinguent and
subject to the penalties imposed bv section 34.0114.

(c)	Each Operator shall submit, on or before the last day of the following month,
a return on the appropriate approved forms to the Tax Administrator of the
total Gross Receipts and the balance of the tax due. At the time the return is
filed, the full amount of the balance of the tax due shall be remitted to the
Tax Administrator.

(d)	Returns filed and taxes remitted bv mail or courier service shall be deemed
timely filed only if the envelope or similar container enclosing the returns and
taxes is addressed to the City Treasurer, has sufficient postage, and bears a
United State postmark, postage meter imprint, or courier pick up date, prior
to midnight on the last day for reporting and remitting without penalty. If the
envelope or other container bears a postage meter imprint as well as a
United States Post Office cancellation mark, the latter shall govern in
determining whether the filing and remittance are timely.

(e)	To the extent allowed bv law, all returns and payments submitted bv each
Operator shall be treated as confidential bv the City Treasurer and shall not
be released except upon order of a court of competent jurisdiction or to an
officer or agent of the United States, the State of California, the County of
San Diego, or the City of San Diego for official use only.

£fi The same basis of accounting used bv an Operator for keeping books and
records shall be used for reporting and remitting.

(a)	If returns and taxes are due on a Saturday. Sunday, or a recognized City
holiday, the due day shall be the next regular business day on which the
Office of the City Treasurer is open to the public.

$34.0114__________Delinquency: Penalties

(a)	Unless otherwise specifically provided under other provisions of this Article, the
Cannabis Business Tax reouired to be paid pursuant to this Article shall be
deemed delinguent if not paid on or before the due date specified in section
34.0113.

(b)	Any person who fails or refuses to pay any tax reguired to be paid pursuant to
this Article on or before the due date shall pay penalties and interest as follows:

(1)	A penalty egual to 25 percent of the amount of the tax in addition to the
amount of the tax, plus interest on the unpaid tax calculated from the due
date of the tax: and

(2)	An additional penalty egual to 25 percent of the amount of the tax if the tax
remains unpaid for a period exceeding one calendar month beyond the
due date, plus interest on the unpaid tax and on the unpaid penalties.

(3)	Interest at the rate of one and one-half percent per month or fraction
thereof on the amount of the tax, exclusive of penalties, from the last day
of the month following the month period for which the amount of any
portion thereof should have been paid until the date of payment.

(4)	Operators must remit all taxes, interest and penalties owed unless an
alternate payment agreement is reached with the Tax Administrator.

(c) Whenever a check is submitted for payment of the taxes due and the check is
returned unpaid bv the bank upon which the check is drawn, and the check is
not redeemed prior to the due date, the Operator will be liable for the tax
amount due plus the returned check fee: penalties and interest as provided for
in this section, and any amount allowed under state law.

(d)	The Cannabis Business Tax due shall be that amount due and payable from the
first date on which a person was engaged in Cannabis Business in the City,
together with applicable penalties and interest calculated in accordance with
subsection 34.0114(a).

$34.0115_________Notice	Not	Required	bv	City

The Tax Administrator is not required to send a delinquency or other notice or
bill to any person subject to the provisions of this Article and failure to send
such notice or bill shall not affect the validity of any tax, interest, or penalty due
under the provisions of this Article.

$34.0116________Failure to Report Tax: Jeopardy Determination

(a)	If any Operator fails or refuses to report or remit any Cannabis Business
Tax due under this Article or if such Operator maintains records which
are inadequate to show the amount of the tax due, the Tax Administrator
shall forthwith assess the tax, interest and penalties provided for by this
Article against the Operator.

(b)	When an Operator fails or refuses to make or file a timely return or
remittance of taxes, or when the Tax Administrator, or duly authorized
employee makes a determination, after having applied necessary and
accepted auditing procedures, or by estimation if no records are available,
that an Operator is or will be unable to remit any taxes due at the prescribed
time, the Tax Administrator may make a written jeopardy determination
which shall be issued to the Operator to require the Operator to thereafter
furnish additional information or provide adequate security as necessary to
ensure the remittance of taxes on a daily or weekly basis. The Operator
shall thereafter report and remit all taxes due under the terms and
conditions prescribed bv the Tax Administrator. The Tax Administrator shall
cancel the requirements imposed under the jeopardy determination once
timely accounting and remittance procedures have been established and
the Operator is meeting all obligations imposed bv law for the remittance of
taxes.

(c)	The Tax Administrator shall deliver notice of the assessment or the jeopardy
determination to the Operator or deposit it in the United States mail,
postage prepaid, addressed to the Operator at the last known place of
business.

$34.0117 Administrative Remedies and Appeals

(a)	An Operator may within 14 calendar days after the serving or mailing of a
notice of assessment or jeopardy determination make application in writing
to the Tax Administrator for a hearing on the amount assessed pursuant to
section 34.0116. If timely application for a hearing is not made, the tax,
interest and penalties determined bv the Tax Administrator shall become
final and conclusive and immediately due and payable. If such application is
made, the Tax Administrator shall give not less than five calendar days
written notice in the manner prescribed herein to the appellant of the time
and place for a hearing before a board consisting of the Tax Administrator.
the City Comptroller and the Director of Financial Management or the duly
appointed deputy of each. At the hearing, the Operator may appear and
offer evidence why the specified tax, interest, and penalties should not be so
fixed. The board shall consider all evidence produced and shall determine
the proper tax, interest, and penalties to be remitted. After the hearing, the
Tax Administrator shall give written notice to the appellant in the manner
prescribed herein of the determination and the amount of such tax, interest,
and penalties. If the amount remaining in dispute thereafter does not
exceed $5,000,00, the decision of the hearing board shall be final and
conclusive and shall constitute the exhaustion of the appellant’s
administrative remedies. Any amount found to be due shall be payable
within 14 calendar days of the serving or mailing of the determination of the
tax due unless a further appeal is filed with the Chief Operating Officer as
provided in this section within that 14-dav period for any amount in excess of
$5.000.00.

PR-09L0-N-14

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE N (CONTINUED)

$34.0118

(b)	When an appeal from the hearing board for remaining taxes and penalties
exceeding $5.000.00 is filed, the Chief Operating Officer, or designee, shall
cause the appeal to be assigned to a hearing officer, who shall schedule a
hearing to be heard within a reasonable time. The hearing officer shall be
appointed bv the Chief Operating Officer, shall be a member of the California
Bar and shall not be a City employee. The hearing officer shall be
compensated bv the City of San Diego for the time spent deciding the
appeal.

(c)	The appellant and the Chief Operating Officer, or designee, shall each have
the right to appear in person and be represented bv legal counsel, to receive
notice, to present evidence, to call and cross-examine witnesses under oath
and to present argument. The hearing officer shall have the power to
compel attendance of witnesses and documents bv subpoena in accordance
with the California Civil Code. The formal rules of evidence shall not apply
and any relevant evidence that is the sort of evidence upon which
responsible persons are accustomed to rely in the conduct of serious
business affairs shall be admissible. Hearsay evidence may be considered
bv the hearing officer, but no findings may be based solely on hearsay
evidence unless supported or corroborated bv other relevant and competent
evidence. The formal exceptions to the hearsay rule shall apply.

(d)	The hearing officer is authorized to rule upon issues of law or fact and to
determine the amount of the tax, interest or penalty in accordance with this
Article. The hearing officer shall not have any jurisdiction to waive, mitigate
or suspend the collection of any tax, interest or penalty found to be duly
imposed.

(e)	The decision of the hearing officer shall be issued in writing no later than
fourteen calendar days after the conclusion of the hearing. The decision
shall be the final administrative remedy of the appellant and shall be binding
upon the City. Any amounts due shall be immediately payable to the City
Treasurer.

£fi The City may promulgate supplementary rules and procedures for the
conduct of the hearing, the forms of notice and proceedings and the
preparation and submission of the record.

Refunds

(a)	Whenever the amount of any Cannabis Business Tax or penalty under this
Article has been overpaid, paid more than once, or has been erroneously or
illegally received bv the City, the overpayment may be refunded provided a
claim in writing under penalty of perjury stating the specific grounds upon
which the claim is founded is filed with the Tax Administrator within three
years of the date of payment. The claim shall be on forms available from the
Tax Administrator.

(b)	An Operator who has remitted an amount in excess of the amount reouired
to be paid may receive a credit to the extent of the excess. If the excess is
discovered as a result of an audit bv the City, no claim need be filed bv the
Operator. Such credit, if approved bv the Tax Administrator. shall be
applied to any deficiency found or any further tax payments due under the
rules prescribed bv the Tax Administrator.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE N (CONTINUED)

(c)	No refund shall be paid under the provisions of this section unless the
claimant establishes his right to such refund bv written records sufficient to
show entitlement thereto.

§34.0119 Exemptions - General

Except as may be otherwise specifically provided in this Article, the terms hereof
shall not be deemed or construed to apply to any person when imposition of the
tax upon that person would violate the Constitution of the United States or that
of the State of California or preemptive federal or state law.

§34.0120 Enforcement

(a)	It shall be the duty of the Tax Administrator to enforce each and all of the
provisions of this Article. The Chief of Police and other City officials shall
render such assistance in the enforcement of this Article as may from time to
time be required bvthe Tax Administrator.

(b)	The Tax Administrator in the exercise of the duties imposed bv this Article,
and acting through deputies or other duly authorized City employees, may
examine all places of business in the City to ascertain whether or not the
provisions of this Article have been complied with.

(c)	The Tax Administrator, deputies and duly authorized City employees shall
have the power to examine all necessary books and records of any person
doing business in the City to determine whether that business is required to
be taxed bv the terms of this Article, or for the purpose of ascertaining the
amount of any tax required to be paid. The Tax Administrator and all deputies
and duly authorized City employees shall have the power and authority to
enter, free of charge, at any reasonable time any place of business and to
demand the exhibition of a business tax certificate. Unless exempted bv the
provisions of this Code, any person having any such business tax certificate
therefore issued in his or her possession or under his or her control, or who is
required to have such business tax certificate, and who fails to exhibit the
same on demand shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and be further subject to
the penalty provided for bv section 34.0114 of this Code.

§34.0121 Officer Liability

Any Officer who willfully fails to accurately report or remit any Cannabis
Business Tax due under this Article, or who willfully attempts in any manner to
evade or defeat any tax due shall, in addition to other penalties provided bv
law, be liable for a penalty in the amount of the tax not paid or evaded, to be
assessed and collected in the same manner as such taxes are assessed and
collected.

§34.0122 Rules and Regulations

For purposes of apportionment as may be required bv law and for purposes of
administration and enforcement of this Article generally, the Tax Administrator, with
the concurrence of the City Attorney, may from time to time promulgate
administrative rules and regulations.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE N (CONTINUED)

$34.0123 Apportionment

(a)	None of the tax provided for by this Article shall be applied so as to occasion
an undue burden upon interstate commerce or violate the equal protection
and due process clauses of the Constitutions of the United States or the
State of California.

(b)	If any case where a business tax imposed under this Article is believed
by a taxpayer to place an undue burden upon interstate commerce or
violate such constitutional clauses, the taxpayer may apply to the Tax
Administrator for an adjustment of the tax. It shall be the taxpayer's
obligation to request in writing for an adjustment within one year after the
date of payment of the tax. If the taxpayer does not request in writing
within one year from the date of payment, then taxpayer shall be
conclusively deemed to have waived any adjustment for that year and all
prior years.

(c)	The taxpayer shall, by sworn statement and supporting testimony, show
the method of business and the gross volume of business and such other
information as the Tax Administrator may deem necessary in order to
determine the extent, if any, of such undue burden or violation. The Tax
Administrator shall then conduct an investigation, and shall fix as the tax
for the taxpayer an amount that is reasonable and nondiscriminatorv, or if
the tax has already been paid, shall order a refund of the amount over
and above the tax so fixed. In fixing the tax to be charged, the Tax
Administrator shall have the power to base the tax upon a percentage of
Gross Receipts or any other measure which will assure that the tax
assessed shall be uniform with that assessed on businesses of like
nature, so long as the amount assessed does not exceed the tax as
prescribed by this Article

(d)	Should the Tax Administrator determine that the gross receipt measure of
tax to be the proper basis, the Tax Administrator may require the taxpayer
to submit a sworn statement of the Gross Receipts and pay the amount of
tax as determined by the Tax Administrator.

$34.0124 Audit and Examination of Records

It shall be the duty of every person liable for the payment to the City of any
Cannabis Business Tax imposed bv this Article to keep and preserve, for a
period of three years, all business records as may be necessary to determine
the amount of such tax for which the Operator is liable. The Tax
Administrator and authorized deputies or agents in the exercise of duties
imposed bv this Article shall have the right to inspect such records at all
reasonable times and to apply auditing procedures necessary to determine
the amount of tax due to the City. It shall be unlawful to refuse to allow or to
permit such audit to be conducted after a lawful demand therefor bv the Tax
Administrator. or the City Auditor when so requested bv the Tax
Administrator.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE N (CONTINUED)

§34.0125 Tax Deemed Debt to City

The amount of any tax, penalties and interest imposed by this Article shall be
deemed a debt to the City. Any person engaging in any Cannabis Business
without first having procured a business tax certificate shall be liable in an action
in the name of the City in any court of competent jurisdiction for the amount of the
tax, and penalties and interest imposed on such business and for attorneys' fees
in the enforcement of this Article. Upon the concurrence of the City Attorney and
the Chief Financial Officer, the Tax Administrator is authorized to compromise the
collection of the amount owed or establish a schedule of payment for any tax due,
including penalties and interest, or to discontinue the collection of any claim if it
appears that further proceedings would not be advantageous to the City.

§34.0126 Actions to Collect Taxes and Enforce Liens

(a)	Upon exhaustion of administrative remedies and appeals to determine the
amount of any tax liability under section 34.0117. the Tax Administrator may
record a Certificate of Lien against real property to collect unpaid taxes,
interest, and penalties with any county recorder in the State of California,
and such lien shall attach to all property owned or thereafter acguired by
any person owing any such Cannabis Business Tax to the City. The
Certificate of Lien shall specify the amount of the tax, and penalties and
interest due, the name and address of the person(s) liable for the same, and
a statement that the Tax Administrator has complied with all provisions of
this Article in the determination of the amount reguired to be paid. Such
liens shall be recorded in accordance with applicable law in the jurisdiction
in which the property is located.

(b)	At any time within three years after any person owing tax to the City under
this Article is delinouent in the payment of any amount herein reguired to be
paid, or within ten years after the last recording or filing of a Certificate of
Lien under section 34.0126(a). the Tax Administrator may issue a warrant for
the enforcement of any liens and for the collection of any amount reguired to
be paid to the City under this Article. The warrant shall be directed to any
sheriff or marshal and shall have the same effect as a writ of execution. The
warrant shall be levied and sale made pursuant to it in the same manner and
with the same effect as a lew and a sale pursuant to a writ of execution.

(c) At any time within three years from the date the Cannabis Business Tax
became delinouent or a Certificate of Lien was recorded under section
34.0126(b). the Tax Administrator may seize any property, real or personal,
subject to the lien of the tax and thereafter sell the property, or a sufficient
part of it. at public auction to pav the tax due together with any interest and
penalties imposed for the delinouencv and any costs incurred on account of
the seizure and sale. Any seizure made to collect the Cannabis Business
Tax due shall be only of property of the Operator not exempt from execution
under the provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure.

PR-09L0-N-18

$34.0127 Successor and Assignee Responsibility

(a)	If any Operator, while liable for any amount under this Article, sells,
assigns or otherwise transfers the business, whether voluntarily or
involuntarily, the Operator's successor, assignee or other transferee, or
other person or entity obtaining ownership or control of the business,
shall satisfy any tax liability owed to the City associated with the
business. Failure to do so for the benefit of the City will result in being
personally liable to the City for the full amount of the tax liability, which
includes interest and penalties.

(b)	The successor Operator, assignee, purchaser, transferee, or other person
or entity seeking to obtain ownership or control of the business shall notify
the Tax Administrator of the date of transfer at least 30 calendar days prior
to the transfer date; or if the agreement to sell, transfer, or otherwise
dispose of the business was made less than 30 calendar days prior to the
date of transfer, notice shall be provided immediately.

(c)	The successor Operator, assignee, purchaser, transferee, or other person
or entity who obtains ownership or control of the business shall be deemed
to have complied with the reouirement of this section to satisfy the unpaid
tax liability, if that person or entity complies with the reouirements of
California Revenue and Taxation Code section 7283.5 by withholding from
the purchase price an amount sufficient to cover the tax liability, or by
otherwise paving the tax liability until the Tax Administrator provides a “Tax
Clearance Certificate” showing that it has been paid and stating that no
amount is due through the date of transfer.

(d)	The Tax Administrator, within 90 calendar days of receiving a written
reguest from a successor Operator, assignee, purchaser, transferee, or
other person or entity who obtains or attempts to obtain ownership or
control of a Cannabis Business. may reouest financial records from the
current or former owner or Operator to conduct an audit of the tax that
may be due and owing. If the City determines that the records provided
for an audit are insufficient, the Tax Administrator may rely on the facts
and information available to estimate any tax liability associated with the
Cannabis Business. Within 30 calendar days of completing the audit, the
Tax Administrator shall issue a “Tax Clearance Certificate” if it finds no
tax, penalties, or interest is due, or mail a notice stating the amount of
the tax, penalty, and interest liability, if any, based on such facts and
information available. A written application for a hearing on the amount
assessed on the tax clearance certificate must be made within ten
calendar days after the serving or mailing of the certificate. The hearing
provision of section 34.0117 shall apply. If an application for a hearing
is not made within the time prescribed, the tax clearance certificate shall
serve as conclusive evidence of the tax liability associated with the
property as of the date specified on the certificate.

PR-09L0-N-19

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE N (CONTINUED)

$34.0128 Violations and Criminal Proceedings

(a)	Any Operator who willfully: 1) fails to file or cause to be filed any return
required bv this Article; 2) files or causes to be filed a false return: 3) fails or
refuses to remit or cause to be remitted any tax required to be paid: or 4)
refuses to allow an audit to be conducted, is guilty of a misdemeanor.

(b)	The commencement of criminal proceedings shall neither preclude nor abate
administrative or civil actions to collect taxes due under this Article.

(c)	Violations under this section are continuing violations and each day the
violation continues constitutes a separate misdemeanor.

(d)	Any Operator violating any of the other mandatory provisions of this Article
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.

(e)	Notwithstanding section 12.0102 of this Code, violation under this Article
shall be punishable as misdemeanors bv a fine of not more than one
thousand dollars or bv imprisonment in the County jail for a period of not
more than six months or bv both such fine and imprisonment.

§34.0129 Remedies Cumulative

All remedies and penalties prescribed bv this Article or which are available
under any other provision of law or equity, including but not limited to the False
Claims Act (California Government Code section 12650-12656) and the Unfair
Practices Act (California Business and Professions Code section 17070-
17101), are cumulative. The use of one or more remedies bv the City shall not
bar the use of any other remedy for the purpose of enforcing the provisions of
this Article.

§34.0130 Effect of State and Federal Reference/Authorization

(a)	Unless specifically provided otherwise, any reference to a state or federal
statute in this Article shall mean such statute as it may be amended from
time to time, provided that such reference to a statute herein shall not
include any amendment thereto, or to any change of interpretation thereto
bv a state or federal agency or court of law with the duty to interpret such
law, to the extent that such amendment or change of interpretation would,
under California law, require voter approval of such amendment or
interpretation, or to the extent that such change would result in a tax
decrease. To the extent voter approval would otherwise be required or a
tax decrease would result, the prior version of the statute, or interpretation
thereof, shall remain applicable; for any application or situation that would
not require voter approval or result in a decrease of a tax, provisions of
the amended statute, or new interpretation thereof, shall be applicable to
the maximum possible extent.

(b)	To the extent that the City’s authorization to collect or impose any tax
imposed under this Article is expanded as a result of changes in state or
federal law, no amendment or modification of this Article shall be required to
conform the tax to those changes, and the tax shall be imposed and collected
to the full extent of the authorization up to the full amount of the tax imposed
under this Article.

PR-09L0-N-20

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE N (CONTINUED)

§34.0131 Severability

Should any provision of this Article, or its application to any person or
circumstance, be determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be
unlawful, unenforceable or otherwise void, that determination shall have no
effect on any other provision of this Article or the application of this Article to
any other person or circumstance and, to that end, the provisions hereof are
severable.

§34.0132______Amendment or Repeal

Chapter 3, Article 4 of the San Diego Municipal Code may be repealed or
amended bv the City without a vote of the people. However, as required by
Article XIIIC of the California Constitution, voter approval is required for any
amendment provision that would increase the rate of any tax levied pursuant to
this Article. The people of the City of San Diego affirm that the following actions
shall not constitute an increase of the rate of a tax:

(a)	The restoration of the rate of the tax to a rate that is no higher than the
maximum 15 percent tax rate set bv this Article, if the City has previously
acted to reduce the rate of the tax;

(b)	The City's adoption of an ordinance, as authorized bv section 34.0112, to
raise the tax rate provided the tax rate is not raised to a rate higher than 15
percent.

(c)	An action that interprets or clarifies the methodology of the tax, or any
definition applicable to the tax, so long as interpretation or clarification (even
if contrary to some prior interpretation or clarification) is not inconsistent with
the language of this Article;

(d)	The establishment of a class of persons that is exempt or excepted from the
tax or the discontinuation of any such exemption or exception (other than
the discontinuation of an exemption or exception specifically set forth in this
Article); or

(e)	The collection of the tax imposed bv this Article, even if the City had, for
some period of time, failed to collect the tax.

{f} This ordinance shall be null and void and of no effect if Proposition 64.
Marijuana Legalization Initiative Statute, is not approved bv voters at the
November 8. 2016 statewide General Election.

END OF MEASURE

PR-09L0-N-21