San Jose Unified School District,
California, Parcel Tax, Measure Y
(November 2016)

| Text of measure

Ballot question

The following question appeared on the ballot;!1]

// To improve education in local neighborhood schools by supporting core
academic programs in reading, writing, math, the arts and science,
preparing students for college and careers and attracting and retaining high
performing teachers and educational staff, shall San Jose Unified School
District authorize an annual $72 school parcel tax for 8 years, raising
approximately $5 million annually, with independent citizen oversight, no
funds for district office administrators’ salaries, a senior citizen exemption
and all funds benefiting local neighborhood schools?!2]

_____________MEASURE	Y_____________

COUNTY COUNSEL'S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF
MEASURE Y

A school district may levy a qualified special tax upon approval by two-
thirds of the votes cast on a measure pursuant to section 4 of article XIIIA
of the California Constitution and section 50075 et seq. of the California
Government Code.

The Board of Education (Board) for the San Jose Unified School District
(District) proposes a qualified special tax in the amount of $72 per parcel
per year beginning on July 1,2017 and ending on June 30,2025.

The tax measure states that an exemption from the proposed tax may be
granted upon application for any parcel that is owner-occupied for (1) a
person 65 years or older; (2) a person receiving Supplemental Security
Income for a disability regardless of age; or (3) a person receiving Social
Security Disability benefits whose yearly income does not exceed 250
percent of the 2012 federal poverty guidelines issued by the United
States Department of Health and Human Services. All property that
would otherwise be exempt from property tax will also be exempt from
the proposed tax.

State law requires the District to state the specific purposes for which
the tax proceeds will be used and only spend the proceeds of the tax for
these purposes. The stated purposes of the proposed tax are to: (1)
maintain and improve core academic programming in reading, writing,
math, the arts, and science; (2) improve programs to prepare students
for college and 21st-century careers; and (3) attract and retain high-
performing teachers and educational staff. Charter schools overseen by
the District and who have partnered with the District to educate students
living in the District will receive an allocation of the qualified special tax as
determined by the Board. The Measure states that revenue generated
by the tax will not be used for District office administrators' salaries,
pensions, or benefits.

The District is required by law to provide additional accountability
measures for the proceeds. These measures include: (1) depositing
the proceeds into a fund that is separate and apart from other District
funds; and (2) providing an annual written report to the Board stating the
amount of funds collected and expended, and the status of any project
authorized to be funded from the tax proceeds. The Board will also
create an independent citizens' oversight committee to provide oversight
as to expenditures of parcel tax revenues.

Measure Y was placed on the ballot by the Board.

A "yes" vote is a vote to approve a parcel tax of $72 per parcel on parcels
within the District for eight years beginning on July 1,2017.

A "no” vote is a vote to not approve the proposed parcel tax.

James R. Williams
Acting County Counsel

By: Isl Danielle L. Goldstein
Deputy County Counsel

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE Y

A.	Introduction and Purpose

To provide local reliable funding for local neighborhood schools that
cannot be taken by the State, to maintain and improve core academic
programming in reading, writing, math, the arts and science, improve
programs to prepare students for college and 21s,-century careers; and
attract and retain high performing teachers and educational staff, with
no proceeds used for District office administrators' salaries, pensions
or benefits, the San Jose Unified School District ("District") proposes to
levy an academic achievement parcel tax measure for a period of eight
years at the rate of $72 per parcel per year with an exemption available
for senior citizens and certain disabled persons, and to implement strict
accountability measures, including review by an independent citizen
oversight committee to ensure the funds are used to:

•	Maintain and improve core academic programming in reading,
writing, math, the arts and science;

•	Improve programs to prepare students for college and 21st-
century careers; and

•	Attract and retain high performing teachers and educational
staff.

Charter schools overseen by the District and who have partnered with the
District to educate students living in the District will receive an allocation
of the qualified special tax as determined by the District's governing
board. Any charter school receiving proceeds of the qualified special
tax shall comply with the audit and reporting requirements imposed on
entities levying qualified special taxes, in part by providing information on
the expenditure of proceeds to the District, and all proceeds shall be used
for purposes consistent with this Measure.

B.	Amount and Basis of Tax

This qualified special tax shall authorize the District to annually levy
a special tax of $72 per Parcel of Taxable Real Property beginning July 1,
2017, and continuing for a period of eight (8) years.

This qualified special tax is estimated to raise $5 million in annual
local funding for District schools. The amount of annual local funding
raised by this qualified special tax will vary from year-to-year due to
changes in the number of parcels exempt from the levy.

"Parcel of Taxable Real Property" is defined as any unit of real
property in the District that receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem
property taxes from the County Tax Collector's Office. All property that is
otherwise exempt from or upon which no ad valorem property taxes are
levied in any year shall also be exempt from the special tax in such year.

C.	Exemptions

Under procedures adopted by the District, an exemption from
payment of the special tax may be granted on any parcel owned by one
or more persons who is/are:

1.	An individual who will attain 65 years of age prior to July 1
of the tax year, owns a beneficial interest in the parcel, and
occupies that parcel as his or her principal place of residence
("Senior Citizen Exemption"); or,

SC Ballot Type 000 - Page 00

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE Y-Continued

2.	Receiving Supplemental Security Income for a disability,
regardless of age, and occupying said parcel as a principal
residence ("SSI Exemption'1); or

3.	Receiving Social Security Disability Insurance benefits,
regardless of age, whose yearly income does not exceed 250
percent of the 2012 federal poverty guidelines issued by the
United States Department of Health and Human Services
f'SSDI Exemption").

The District shall annually provide to the Santa Clara County Tax
Collector ("County Tax Collector") or other appropriate County official a
list of parcels that the District has approved for an exemption.

D.	Claims/Exemption Procedures

With respect to all general property tax matters within its jurisdiction,
the County Tax Collector or other appropriate County tax official shall
make all final determinations of tax exemption or relief for any reason,
and that decision shall be final and binding. With respect to matters
specific to the levy of the special tax including any exemptions, the
application of the definition of "Parcel of Taxable Real Property" to any
parcel(s), the legality or validity of the special tax, or any other disputed
matter specific to the application of the special tax, the decisions of the
District shall be final and binding. The procedures described herein, and
any additional procedures established by the Board shall be the exclusive
claims procedure for claimants seeking an exemption, refund, reduction,
or re-computation of the special tax. Whether any particular claim is to
be resolved by the District or by the County shall be determined by the
District, in coordination with the County as necessary.

E.	Appropriations Limit

Pursuant to California Constitution Article XIIIB and applicable laws,
the appropriations limit for the District will be adjusted periodically by the
aggregate sum collected by levy of this qualified special tax.

F.	Mandatory Accountability Protections

1.	Specific Purposes. The proceeds of the special tax shall be
applied only to the specific purposes identified above. The
proceeds of the special tax shall be deposited into a fund,
which shall be kept separate and apart from other funds of the
District.

2.	Annual Reports. No later than December 31 of each year
while the tax is in effect, the District shall prepare and file with
the Board a report detailing the amount of funds collected
and expended, and the status of any project authorized to be
funded by this Measure. The report may relate to the calendar
year, fiscal year, or other appropriate annual period, and may
be incorporated into or filed with the annual budget, audit, or
other appropriate routine report to the Board.

3.	Independent Citizens' Oversight Committee. The Board shall
provide for the creation of an independent citizens' oversight
committee to oversee the funds collected pursuant to the
Measure to ensure that moneys raised under this Measure
are spent only for the purposes described in this Measure.
The Board shall provide for the composition, duties, funding,
and other necessary information regarding the committee's
formation and operation.

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE Y-Continued

G.	Protection of Funding

Current law forbids any decrease in State or federal funding to the
District resulting from the adoption of qualified special tax. However, if
any such funding is reduced or affected because of the adoption of this
local funding measure, then the Board may reduce the amount of the
special taxes levied as necessary in order to restore such State or federal
funding and/or maximize the District's fiscal position for the benefit of
the educational program. As a result, whether directly or indirectly, no
funding from this measure may be taken away by the State or federal
governments.

H.	Severability

The Board hereby declares, and the voters by approving this
Measure concur, that every section and part of this Measure has
independent value, and the Board and the voters would have adopted
each provision hereof regardless of every other provision hereof. Upon
approval of this Measure by the voters, should any part of the Measure or
taxing formula be found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid
for any reason, all remaining parts of the Measure or taxing formula
hereof shall remain in full force and effect to the fullest extent allowed
by law.

SC Ballot Type 000 - Page 00

	
ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE Y	REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE Y
Vote Yes on Y to prepare our neighborhood elementarv. middle, and high school students for success in our competitive 21st-century economy.  Due to strong classroom instruction, core academic programs, and vocational education, student achievement has significantly improved in our neighborhood schools in recent years. To continue this success, we need Measure Y.  Measure Y attracts and retains excellent teachers in our neighborhood schools.  The high cost of living in our area and a national teacher shortage is putting San Jose at risk of losing some of the best classroom teachers. Measure Y will attract and retain the best and brightest teachers in our local schools.  Measure Y prepares students for college and successful careers.  Our local students go on to become the workforce of Silicon Valley. Measure Y will improve core academic programs in reading, writing, math, the arts, and science, as well as vocational programs to prepare students for college and competitive, 21st-century careers.  The State CANNOT take away Measure Y funds.  All Measure Y funds will stay in our neighborhood schools and cannot be taken away by the State. Citizen oversight and annual audits ensure the funds are spent as promised.  Vote YES onY  •	Maintain and improve core academic programs in reading, writing, math, the arts, and science  •	Improve programs to prepare students for college and 21st- century careers  •	Attract and retain high-performing teachers  Strong Fiscal Accountability Protections  •	All funds will stay in our local schools and cannot be taken away by the state  •	Citizen oversight and annual audits ensure all funds are used for voter-approved purposes only  •	Measure Y will expire in eight years and cannot be renewed without voter approval  •	Senior citizen homeowners can receive an exemption  All local students deserve the opportunity to succeed. Join neighbors, community leaders, and parents: Vote YES on Measure Y.  Isl Susan Hammer  Former Mayor of San Jose  Isl Fernando Zazueta  Co-Founder, Mexican Heritage Corporation  Isl Carl Guardino  President & CEO Silicon Valley Leadership Group  Isl Carl Salas  San Jose Business Owner  Isl Vandana Kaushal  President, San Jose Unified Council of PTAs	In 2012, voters approved a whopping $290,000,000 bond debt measure and now the District is coming back for more loot.  The District wants to impose a tax increase of $576 over the next 8 years.  Accordina to the web site: www.ed-data.ora. the district revenues for 2014-15 (latest figures available) were $320,949,607 and for 2013-14 school-year, revenues were $296,486,221.  That's a $24,463,386 jump in revenues in just one year. So, why do  they need a new the $72 parcel tax increase?  Answer: they don't.  They are spending $10,416 per student per year in 2014/15 which is 102% of the statewide average. That's a whopping $742 per student revenue increase year over year.  The district's ADA (Average Daily Attendance) has declined by 214 students since the 2013-14 school year, which should mean lower costs.  If they are already receiving and spending $742 per student more than last school year, why do they need a $72 parcel tax for the next 8 years?  Answer: they don't.  Just once, wouldn't vou like to see a "temoorarv tax" actually be
	temporary?  More money spent on schools will NOT result in higher test scores, but will result in bigger bureaucracies and fatter pensions. Please vote NO on Measure Y.  Please don't believe the lie that "no funds for district office administrators' salaries". All money is fungible and that means funds raised by this tax will free up additional monies for higher administration salaries.  For more information, visit www.SVTaxDavers.ora/2016-san-jose-unified- school-parcel-tax  Isl Mark W.A. Hinkle  President: Silicon Valley Taxpayers Association

SC Ballot Type 000 - Page 00

	
ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE Y	REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE Y
In 2012, voters approved a whopping $290,000,000 bond debt measure and now the District is coming back for more loot.  The District wants to impose a tax increase of $576 over the next 8 years.  Accordina to the web site: www.ed-data.ora. the district revenues for 2014-15 (latest figures available) were $320,949,607 and for 2013-14 school-year, revenues were $296,486,221.  That's a $24,463,386 jump in revenues in just one year. So, why do  they need a new the $72 parcel tax increase?  Answer: they don't.  They are spending $10,416 per student per year in 2014/15 which is 102% of the statewide average. That's a whopping $742 per student revenue increase year over year.  The district's ADA (Average Daily Attendance) has declined by 214 students since the 2013-14 school year, which should mean lower costs.  If they are already receiving and spending $742 per student more than last school year, why do they need a $72 parcel tax for the next 8 years?  Answer: they don't.  And that's on top of the $290,000,000 bond measure debt approved in 2012--NOT counting interest expense on that debt.  It's time we said no to the tax and spend special interest crowd and reject this parcel tax.  Just once, wouldn't you like to see a "temoorarv tax" actually be	Unlike the author of the argument against Measure Y, we believe neighborhood elementary, middle, and high school student success is a community priority. This lone opponent doesn't live in San Jose and regularly opposes every school measure in Santa Clara County.  We know the 32,000 students attending our neighborhood schools need Measure Y to excel in our competitive economy and become Silicon Valley's future leaders.  Measure Y must be used for specific academic priorities in our schools:  •	Maintaining and improving core academic programs in reading, writing, math, the arts, and science  •	Improving programs to prepare students for college and 21st- century careers  •	Attracting and retaining high-performing teachers  Citizen oversight and annual audits ensure Measure Y is used for voter-approved purposes only.  Nothing is more critical to student success than high-quality teachers.  The national teacher shortage and high cost of living in our area is making it difficult to attract and retain the best and brightest teachers, who are key to preparing students for college and careers. Measure Y ensures quality teachers continue to teach in our local schools.  Measure Y is dedicated to student success, not administrators.  By law, no funds can be used for administrators' salaries, pensions, or benefits.  Measure Y stays in our local schools-the state can't take away a single penny. It is locally-controlled funding targeted to local educational priorities.  Every student deserves a great education and the opportunity to succeed in college and a high-paying career. Join us, vote YES on Y.  www.YesonY4StudentSuccess.org  Isl Jim Cunneen  Former Republican Assemblymember  Isl Nancy Pyle  Former San Jose City Councilmember  Isl Janet Akin San Jose Realtor  Isl David Ginsborg  SJUSD Measure H Citizen Oversight Committee  Isl Ivonne Montes De Oca  San Jose Small Business Owner
temporary?  More money spent on schools will NOT result in higher test scores, but will result in bigger bureaucracies and fatter pensions. Please vote NO on Measure Y.  Please don't believe the lie that "no funds for district office administrators' salaries". All money is fungible and that means funds raised by this tax will free up additional monies for higher administration salaries.  For more information, visit www.SVTaxpavers.ora/2016-san-jose-unified- school-parcel-tax  Isl Mark W.A. Hinkle  President: Silicon Valley Taxpayers Association	

SC Ballot Type 000 - Page 00

RESOLUTION 2017-08-04-05

AUG 05 2016

fl OF TO1FS
SWTACUW

z___

__Deputy

RESOLUTION OF THE BOARD OF EDUCATION OF THE SAN JOSE UNIFIED
SCHOOL DISTRICT OF THE COUNTY OF SANTA CLARA, STATE OF
CALIFORNIA, CALLING AN ELECTION FOR APPROVAL OF AN EDUCATION
PARCEL TAX, ESTABLISHING SPECIFICATIONS OF THE ELECTION ORDER,
AND REQUESTING CONSOLIDATION WITH OTHER ELECTIONS OCCURRING

ON NOVEMBER 8,2016

RESOLVED by the Board of Education (“Board”) of the San Jose Unified School
District (“District”), a school district of the County of Santa Clara, State of California, that:

WHEREAS, the District is devoted to maintaining the quality of local neighborhood
schools; and

WHEREAS, maintaining core academic programs in reading, writing, math, the arts and
science are critical to providing all students with a strong educational foundation; and

WHEREAS, it is imperative to attract and retain highly qualified teachers that deliver
innovative education to prepare students for college and careers, and with the high cost of living
in the area and national shortage of teachers, San Jose is at risk of losing some of its best
classroom teachers; and

WHEREAS, the Board believes it is essential to protect vocational programs that prepare
students for well-paying 21sl-century jobs and programs that prepare students for college; and

WHEREAS, student achievement has significantly improved in the District, with
graduation rates and SAT scores above the state average; and

WHEREAS, State funding for education is unpredictable and inconsistent; and

WHEREAS, the Board has concluded that the District seeks to avoid inconsistent
funding of its educational programs and secure local funding that the State cannot take away; and

WHEREAS, the Board has received information regarding the possibility of a local
education parcel tax measure; and

WHEREAS, this measure will include strict taxpayer protections, including an
independent citizens’ oversight committee and mandatory audits to ensure funds are spent as
promised; and

WHEREAS, under no circumstances shall any of the proceeds of the education parcel
tax be used for District office administrators’ salaries and benefits; and

WHEREAS, California Constitution, Article XIIIA, section 4 and Government Code
sections 50075 et seq. authorizes the District, upon approval of two-thirds of the electorate, to
levy qualified special taxes on property in the District for the purpose of providing quality
educational programs in the District and other lawful purposes of the District; and

1

WHEREAS, in the judgment of this Board, following a public hearing and comment, it
is advisable to request that the Santa Clara County Superintendent of Schools call an election and
submit to the voters of the District the question of whether the District shall levy a qualified
special tax within the District, for the purpose of raising revenue for the District; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the Education Code and Elections Code such election may be
completely or partially consolidated with any other election held on the same day and in the
same territory or territory that is in part the same.

NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS DETERMINED AND ORDERED as follows:

Section 1. Recitals. This Board hereby finds and determines that the foregoing recitals are
true and correct.

Section 2. Resolution Constitutes Order of Election. This resolution shall constitute an
order of election pursuant to the Education Code to the Santa Clara County Superintendent of
Schools to call an election within the boundaries of the District on November 8,2016.

Section 3. Date and Purpose of Measure. Pursuant to the California Constitution and
Government Code, an election shall be held within the boundaries of the District on Tuesday,
November 8,2016, for the purpose of voting on a measure (“Measure”) which will be presented
to voters in substantially the form attached hereto as Exhibit A, containing the question of
whether the District shall impose a qualified special tax for the educational purposes stated
therein. In addition, the full text of the Measure (“Full Ballot Text”) shall appear in the ballot
pamphlet in substantially the form attached hereto as Exhibit B. The authority for the
specifications of this election order is contained in the Education Code, and the authority for
ordering the election is contained in the Education Code, Elections Code, Government Code, and
California Constitution.

Section 4. Exemptions from Qualified Special Tax. Pursuant to any procedures adopted
by the District, upon application an exemption from payment of the special tax may be granted
on any parcel owned by one or more:

(a)	Persons in the District who will attain 65 years of age prior to July 1 of the tax
year, own a beneficial interest in the parcel, and occupies that parcel as his or her
principal place of residence (“Senior Citizen Exemption”); or,

(b)	Persons receiving Supplemental Security Income for a disability, regardless of
age, and occupying said parcel as a principal residence (“SSI Exemption”); or

(c)	Persons receiving Social Security Disability Insurance benefits, regardless of age,
whose yearly income does not exceed 250 percent of the 2012 federal poverty
guidelines issued by the United States Department of Health and Human Services
(“SSDI Exemption”).

The District shall annually provide to the Santa Clara County Tax Collector (“County Tax
Collector”) or other appropriate County official a list of parcels that the District has approved for
an exemption.

Section 5. Collection of the Tax. Beginning July 1,2017, if adopted by voters, the qualified
special tax shall be collected by the County Tax Collector, at the same time, in the same manner,
and subject to the same penalties as ad valorem property taxes collected by the County Tax
Collector. Unpaid special taxes shall bear interest at the same rate as the rate for unpaid ad
valorem property taxes until paid.

With respect to all general property tax matters within its jurisdiction, the County Tax Collector
shall make all final determinations of tax exemption or relief for any reason, and that decision
shall be final and binding. With respect to matters specific to the levy of the special tax,
including the exemptions, the application of the definition of “Parcel of Taxable Real Property”
to any parcel(s), the legality or validity of the special tax, or any other disputed matter specific to
the application of the special tax, the decisions of the District shall be final and binding.

Section 6. Reporting and Oversight.

(a)	Specific Purpose. The proceeds of the special tax shall be applied only to the
specific purposes identified in the Full Ballot Text as required by Government
Code section 50075.1. The proceeds of the special tax shall be deposited into a
fund, which shall be kept separate and apart from other funds of the District.

(b)	Annual Report. No later than December 31 of each year while the special tax is in
effect, the District shall prepare and file with the Board a report detailing the
amount of funds collected and expended, and the status of any project authorized
to be funded by this Measure.

(c)	Independent Citizens’ Oversight Committee. The Board shall provide for the
creation of an independent citizens’ oversight committee to oversee the funds
collected pursuant to the Measure to ensure that moneys raised under this
Measure are spent only for the purposes described in this Measure. The Board
shall provide for the composition, duties, funding, and other necessary
information regarding the committee’s formation and operation.

Section 7. Authority for Ordering Election. The authority for ordering the election is
contained in the Education Code, Elections Code, Government Code, and California
Constitution.

Section 8. Authority for Specifications. The authority for the specification of this election
order is contained in the Education Code.

Section 9. Resolution to County Officials. The Secretary to the Board is hereby directed to
cause certified copies of this Resolution and order to be delivered no later than August 10,2016,
to the County Superintendent, the Santa Clara County Registrar of Voters (“Registrar”), and the
Clerk of the Board of Supervisors of Santa Clara County (“Board of Supervisors”).

Section 10. Formal Notice. The County Superintendent is hereby requested to prepare and
execute a Formal Notice of Parcel Tax Election and consolidation order in substantially the form
attached hereto as Exhibit C (the “Formal Notice”), and to call the election by causing the
Formal Notice to be posted in accordance with the applicable law no later than August 10,2016,
or to otherwise cause the notice to be published as permitted by law. The Secretary to the Board,
on behalf of and as may be requested by the County Superintendent, is authorized to cause all
notices required by law in connection herewith to be published and posted, as the case may be.

Section 11.	Conduct of Election.

(a)	Request to Registrar. Pursuant to State law, the Registrar is requested to take all
steps to hold the election on November 8,2016, in accordance with law and these
specifications. The election shall be held and conducted in the manner prescribed
by Elections Code section 10418.

(b)	Voter Pamphlet. The Registrar is hereby requested to reprint the Full Ballot Text
in substantially the form attached hereto as Exhibit B in the voter information
pamphlet to be distributed to voters pursuant to the Elections Code. In the event
the Full Ballot Text will not be reprinted in the voter information pamphlet in its
entirety, the Registrar is hereby requested to print, immediately below the
impartial analysis of the Measure, in no less than 10-point boldface type, a legend
substantially as follows:

“The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure . If you desire a

copy of the Measure, please call the Santa Clara County Registrar of Voters at
(408) 299-8683 and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you."

(c)	Consolidation. The County Superintendent and the Board of Supervisors are
hereby requested to consolidate the election ordered hereby with any and all other
elections as may be held on the same day in the same territory or in territory that
is in part the same.

(d)	Canvass and Declaration of Results. The Board of Supervisors is authorized to
canvass the returns of the election and declare the result pursuant to the Elections
Code.

(e)	Cost of Election. The District will reimburse the Registrar and the County of
Santa Clara for costs associated with the election as required by law.

Section 12. Appropriations Limit. The Board shall provide in each year for an increase in
the District’s appropriations limit as shall be necessary to ensure that the proceeds of the special
tax may be spent for the authorized purposes.

Section 13. Ballot Arguments. The Board President and/or her designees are hereby
authorized to prepare and file with the Registrar any ballot argument prepared in connection with
the election, including a rebuttal argument, each within the time established by the Registrar,

which shall be considered the official ballot arguments of the Board as sponsor of the Measure
and to take all necessary action to prevent inclusion of false and/or misleading information in
ballot materials related to the Measure.

Section 14. Official Actions. The District Superintendent, Board President, or their
designees are hereby authorized to execute any other document and to perform all acts necessary
to place the Measure on the ballot, including making alterations to the Measure and Full Ballot
Text stated in Exhibits A and B hereto, and to this Resolution, to comply with requirements of
law and election officials or which are, in the judgment of the Superintendent and/or Board
President, in the best interests of the District.

Section 15. Effective Date. This Resolution shall take effect from and after its adoption.

PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Board of Education of the San Jose Unified School District,
San Jose, California this 4th day of August, 2016, by the following vote:

AYES:	Castellanos,	Ellenberg,	Engel,	Foley,	Zarghami

NOES	None

ABSTENTIONS: None
ABSENT:	None

ATTEST:

Teresa Castellanos, President
Governing Board of Education

Governing Board of Education

5

EXHIBIT A

Summary of Measure

The Measure shall be summarized in the following form, and the County of Santa Clara
Registrar of Voters is requested to cause this summary of the Measure to appear on the ballot:

To improve education in local neighborhood schools by supporting core academic
programs in reading, writing, math, the arts and science, preparing students for
college and careers and attracting and retaining high performing teachers and
educational staff, shall San Jose Unified School District authorize an annual $72
school parcel tax for 8 years, raising approximately $5 million annually, with
independent citizen oversight, no funds for district office administrators’ salaries,
a senior citizen exemption and all funds benefiting local neighborhood schools?



Exhibit A

EXHIBIT B

FULL BALLOT TEXT
SAN JOSE UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT

ACADEMIC ACHIEVEMENT FUNDING MEASURE
Measure___________________

[letter designation to be assigned by Santa Clara County Registrar of Voters]

A.	Introduction and Purpose

To provide local reliable funding for local neighborhood schools that cannot be
taken by the State, to maintain and improve core academic programming in reading,
writing, math, the arts and science, improve programs to prepare students for college and
21st-century careers; and attract and retain high performing teachers and educational staff,
with no proceeds used for District office administrators’ salaries, pensions or benefits, the
San Jos6 Unified School District (“District”) proposes to levy an academic achievement
parcel tax measure for a period of eight years at the rate of $72 per parcel per year with
an exemption available for senior citizens and certain disabled persons, and to implement
strict accountability measures, including review by an independent citizen oversight
committee to ensure the funds are used to:

•	Maintain and improve core academic programming in reading, writing, math,
the arts and science;

•	Improve programs to prepare students for college and 21st-century careers; and

•	Attract and retain high performing teachers and educational staff.

Charter schools overseen by the District and who have partnered with the District to
educate students living in the District will receive an allocation of the qualified special
tax as determined by the District’s governing board. Any charter school receiving
proceeds of the qualified special tax shall comply with the audit and reporting
requirements imposed on entities levying qualified special taxes, in part by providing
information on the expenditure of proceeds to the District, and all proceeds shall be used
for purposes consistent with this Measure.

B.	Amount and Basis of Tax

This qualified special tax shall authorize the District to annually levy a special tax
of $72 per Parcel of Taxable Real Property beginning July 1,2017, and continuing for a
period of eight (8) years.

This qualified special tax is estimated to raise $5 million in annual local funding
for District schools. The amount of annual local funding raised by this qualified special

Exjiibit-tfT”

tax will vary from year-to-year due to changes in the number of parcels exempt from the
levy.

“Parcel of Taxable Real Property” is defined as any unit of real property in the
District that receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem property taxes from the County
Tax Collector’s Office. All property that is otherwise exempt from or upon which no ad
valorem property taxes are levied in any year shall also be exempt from the special tax in
such year.

C.	Exemptions

Under procedures adopted by the District, an exemption from payment of the
special tax may be granted on any parcel owned by one or more persons who is/are:

1.	An individual who will attain 65 years of age prior to July 1 of the tax
year, owns a beneficial interest in the parcel, and occupies that parcel as
his or her principal place of residence (“Senior Citizen Exemption”); or,

2.	Receiving Supplemental Security Income for a disability, regardless of
age, and occupying said parcel as a principal residence (“SSI
Exemption”); or

3.	Receiving Social Security Disability Insurance benefits, regardless of age,
whose yearly income does not exceed 250 percent of the 2012 federal
poverty guidelines issued by the United States Department of Health and
Human Services (“SSDI Exemption”).

The District shall annually provide to the Santa Clara County Tax Collector (“County
Tax Collector”) or other appropriate County official a list of parcels that the District has
approved for an exemption.

D.	Claims / Exemption Procedures

With respect to all general property tax matters within its jurisdiction, the County
Tax Collector or other appropriate County tax official shall make all final determinations
of tax exemption or relief for any reason, and that decision shall be final and
binding. With respect to matters specific to the levy of the special tax including any
exemptions, the application of the definition of “Parcel of Taxable Real Property” to any
parcel(s), the legality or validity of the special tax, or any other disputed matter specific
to the application of the special tax, the decisions of the District shall be final and
binding. The procedures described herein, and any additional procedures established by
the Board shall be the exclusive claims procedure for claimants seeking an exemption,
refund, reduction, or re-computation of the special tax. Whether any particular claim is
to be resolved by the District or by the County shall be determined by the District, in
coordination with the County as necessary.

E.	Appropriations Limit

Pursuant to California Constitution Article XIIIB and applicable laws, the
appropriations limit for the District will be adjusted periodically by the aggregate sum
collected by levy of this qualified special tax.

F.	Mandatory Accountability Protections

1.	Specific Purposes. The proceeds of the special tax shall be applied only to
the specific purposes identified above. The proceeds of the special tax
shall be deposited into a fund, which shall be kept separate and apart from
other funds of the District.

2.	Annual Reports. No later than December 31 of each year while the tax is
in effect, the District shall prepare and file with the Board a report
detailing the amount of funds collected and expended, and the status of
any project authorized to be funded by this Measure. The report may
relate to the calendar year, fiscal year, or other appropriate annual period,
and may be incorporated into or filed with the annual budget, audit, or
other appropriate routine report to the Board.

3.	Independent Citizens’ Oversight Committee. The Board shall provide for
the creation of an independent citizens’ oversight committee to oversee the
funds collected pursuant to the Measure to ensure that moneys raised
under this Measure are spent only for the purposes described in this
Measure. The Board shall provide for the composition, duties, funding,
and other necessary information regarding the committee’s formation and
operation.

G.	Protection of Funding

Current law forbids any decrease in State or federal funding to the District
resulting from the adoption of qualified special tax. However, if any such funding is
reduced or affected because of the adoption of this local funding measure, then the Board
may reduce the amount of the special taxes levied as necessary in order to restore such
State or federal funding and/or maximize the District’s fiscal position for the benefit of
the educational program. As a result, whether directly or indirectly, no funding from this
measure may be taken away by the State or federal governments.

H.	Severability

The Board hereby declares, and the voters by approving this Measure concur, that
every section and part of this Measure has independent value, and the Board and the
voters would have adopted each provision hereof regardless of every other provision
hereof. Upon approval of this Measure by the voters, should any part of the Measure or
taxing formula be found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason,
all remaining parts of the Measure or taxing formula hereof shall remain in full force and
effect to the fullest extent allowed by law.

EXHIBIT C

FORMAL NOTICE OF SPECIAL TAX ELECTION
[For Use by County Superintendent]

NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN to the qualified electors of the San Jose Unified School
District of Santa Clara County, California, that in accordance with the provisions of the
Education Code and the Government Code of the State of California, an election will be held on
November 8,2016, for the purpose of submitting to the qualified electors of the District the
measure summarized as follows:

To improve education in local neighborhood schools by supporting core academic
programs in reading, writing, science, math, and the arts and science, preparing students
for college and careers and attracting and retaining high performing teachers and
educational staff, shall San Jose Unified School District authorize an annual $72 school
parcel tax for 8 years, raising approximately $5 million annually, with independent
citizen oversight, no funds for district office administrators’ salaries, a senior citizen
exemption and all funds benefiting local neighborhood schools?

By execution of this formal Notice of Election the Santa Clara County Superintendent of
Schools orders consolidation of the election with such other elections as may be held on the same
day in the same territory or in territory that is in part the same.

The Santa Clara County Superintendent of Schools, by this Notice of Election, has called
the election pursuant to a Resolution and Order of the Governing Board of the San Jose Unified
School District adopted August 4,2016, in accordance with the provisions of Education Code
Sections 5302,5325 and 5361.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this day,

,2016.

Mr. Jon R. Gundry	/

Santa Clara County Superintendent of Schools
San Jose, California

Supt.'s Office
AUG * 5 2016
RECEIVED

Exhibit C