Siskiyou County, California, Sales Tax
Increase, Measure G (November 2016)

| Text of measure

Ballot question

The following question appeared on the ballots

// The Siskiyou County General Retail Sales Tax Measure.

To go toward the Siskiyou County General Fund and be used to pay for the
servicing of the construction loan liability funding the construction of the new
County jail, shall the County of Siskiyou enact a quarter - percent (0.25%)
sales tax for the term of the construction loan for the benefit of the County
General Fund and constructing the new County jail?i2i

Impartial analysis

The following impartial analysis of the measure was prepared by the office of the
Siskiyou County Counsel:

On July 18, 2016, the Siskiyou County Board of Supervisors voted unanimously to
place Measure "G" on the November 8, 2016 ballot. If approved by a majority of
the electorate, this Measure would authorize a one-quarter of one percent (0.25%)
general transactions and use tax (i.e. "sales tax") within Siskiyou County and would
be imposed on retail transactions involving sale and use of personal property.

California Revenue and Taxation Code section 7285 authorizes the County to levy a
transactions and use/sales tax at a rate of one-quarter of one percent (0.25%) so long
as the tax is approved by at least two-thirds of the Siskiyou County Board of
Supervisors and a majority of the voters voting in an election on that issue. If
approved, the sales tax would become effective on April 1, 2017.

The tax would be paid in addition to current sales taxes, and would be collected at
the same time and in the same manner by the State Board of Equalization, and
remitted to the County of Siskiyou for general purposes to be placed in the County
General Fund and could be used to service the construction loan liability for the
construction of the new County jail. The tax would be in effect from April 1, 2017
and for the term of the construction loan financing the new County jail project, and
would then expire automatically at the end of the loan term, unless extended by the
voters.

All revenues raised by the tax would belong to the County and would not be shared
with the State or any other agency.

//

By placing Measure "G" on the ballot, the County complies with Section 7285 of
the California Revenue and Taxation Code, which requires that an election be held
when a county board of supervisors seeks voter approval of a new sales tax for
general purposes.

A "YES" vote on Measure "G" will authorize the sales tax.

A "NO" vote on Measure "G" will not authorize the sales tax.pi

—Siskiyou County Counsel™

Arguments in favor

Official argument

The following official argument was submitted in favor of the measure:!1]

// Protect the citizens of Siskiyou County-and vote YES on Measure G!

Siskiyou County needs a new jail to hold criminals accountable for their crimes
committed in our communities

Join Sheriff Lopey, all law enforcement, local businesses and the citizens of
Siskiyou County and vote YES on Measure G to keep the new jail project alive.
Without your YES vote on G-we will lose 27 million dollars in State funds, and be
forced to build a new jail on our own in the future—without state assistance.

Denial of initiative will endanger future generations and will lead to Increased
crime rates. Violent offenders are released daily due to lack of jail beds.

•	Violent crime and property crime are on the rise at alarming rates.

•	Without your YES vote on Measure G crime rates will continue to rise,

victimizing our citizens and children

Crime rates are impacted by major interstate, state, and US highways traversing
Siskiyou County. Grand jury reports have repeatedly cited jail overcrowding,
infrastructure and other shortfalls and leaving the County vulnerable to civil
liability.

Measure G requires a general vote for a 0.25% county wide sales tax. Your YES
vote on Measure G to build a new jail will positively impact public health and
safety for many decades to come, and we will not have to return the $27 million in
state funds to help build this jail! For every $4.00 of taxable merchandise you spend
it will only cost 1 penny to protect Siskiyou County Citizens.

There are no reasonable alternatives to this new jail project-Measure G is our best
and most affordable option. We cannot afford to let this opportunity be lost. Please
vote yes to safe streets & communities!

We ask you to vote YES on Measure G and support the new jail for Siskiyou
County!121

Arguments against

Official argument

The following official argument was submitted in opposition to the measure:^

Propositions 13 and 218 require a 2/3 vote for special taxes. County supervisors
made an end run around this principle to bring this back to the ballot. The Howard
Jarvis Taxpayer’s Association said: “This proposal is offensive. Tax elections
should not be manipulated by promising the voters a specific purpose while not
requiring the 2/3 vote needed to pass a “special tax” (that is, a tax for a specific
purpose)”.

Remember leveraged buyouts in the timber industry, and that time your home
equity disappeared? Well, those Wall Street people are the same ones profiting
when the state shifts prisoners here. Fancy financing “lease-revenue” bonds for jails
and prisons have one state agency paying another state agency premium interest
using your tax dollars, and pretending that’s “revenue” - it’s not!

Sabotaging county finances starts with draining millions from seven different
reserves, then piles on even more high interest debt to finish raising the $210,000
per bed, $858 per square foot jail building costs. There’s no money for the new
costs of running it. We can tell what’s going on, and it’s not right.

Seeing the history here of unsupported crime statistics and loose financial controls,
can we believe this grand design is the only answer? The jail needs replacement, but
instead we have costly plans for constant expansion, tripling its size while
businesses leave and the county population shrinks.

People in rural counties know each other. We’ll stop crime with common sense -
dealing with mental illness and addiction through strong intervention and
incentives, one person at a time. That’s labor intensive and will create jobs. Massive
jail expansion, dumping state prison problems on us, is just a ridiculously expensive
gift to Wall Street. Don’t fall for it - vote NO and send the message loud and clear -
again! pi