Lake Shastina Community Services
District, California, Police Services
Parcel Tax, Measure B (November

2016)

| Text of measure

Ballot question

The following question appeared on the ballot:!1!

// Shall the Lake Shastina Community Services District increase their special
tax for police services to $110 per year? This reflects an increase of $3.75
per month on each parcel and is the first increase in twenty years. This
measure provides for recruiting and retaining qualified law enforcement
personnel, furnish, operate and maintain vehicles and essential safety
equipment, and police related services for the protection of life and property
in the Lake Shastina Community Services District.!2!

Impartial analysis

The following impartial analysis of the measure was prepared by the office of the
Siskiyou County Counsel:

On June 23, 2016, the Board of Directors of the Lake Shastina Community Services
District voted to place a measure on the ballot that, if approved, would establish a
special tax of $110 per parcel per year dedicated to fund police protection services
in the district.

A year is defined by the district as a fiscal year, which runs from July of one
calendar year through June of the following calendar year. If approved by the
voters, the special tax will go into effect in the 2016-2017 fiscal year and will be
prorated for the seven months running from December 1, 2016, through June 30,
2017.

The tax applies to all parcels in the district, including both residential and non-
residential parcels and those with or without improvements. The only exemptions to
the tax apply to any road or greenbelt or property belonging to any county, state, or
federal government agency.

The tax will be levied per parcel based on the ownership records of the district. For
administrative purposes, some lots are assigned more than one parcel number by the
Siskiyou County Assessor, but those lots will only be taxed as a single parcel.

This measure would repeal all other fees, assessments, or other charges previously
levied for police protection services, except those in effect for the 2016-2017 fiscal
year. However, any outstanding indebtedness related to previous charges shall
remain and shall not be deemed forgiven.

In accordance with Article XIIIC of the California Constitution, a special purpose
district, such as the Lake Shastina Community Services District, may only impose
special taxes for specific purposes and to do so must obtain approval with a two-
thirds vote from the electorate. The proceeds of the tax may only be used to fund
operation of the District’s police department and in support of police protection
services.

A "YES" vote on Measure "B" will authorize the special tax.

A "NO" vote on Measure "B" will not authorize the special tax.[2]

—Siskiyou County Counsel™