JO AlNflOD

SONOMA



CONSOLIDATED
GENERAL ELECTION

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 2016

and

Voter Information Pamphlet

Compiled and Distributed by Sonoma County Registrar of Voters

IMPORTANT NOTICE - YOUR POLLING PLACE
MAY HAVE CHANGED. The location of your polling
place for this election is shown on the back cover.

POLLS ARE OPEN FROM 7 A.M. TO 8 P.M.

TO SAVE TIME AT THE POLLS -

>	Mark your choices in this Sample Ballot and
take it with you to your polling place.

>	If possible, vote during the “non-rush hours,”
mid-morning and mid-afternoon.

OR VOTE BY MAIL, APPLICATION ON BACK 0

INTERNET

FOR ELECTION

NIGHT RESULTS ON THE INTERNET:
http://vote.sonoma-county.org

llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll

INSTRUCTIONS TO VOTERS

IF YOU VOTE AT A POLLING PLACE: USE ONLY THE MARKING DEVICE PROVIDED. After you have completed
voting, place your ballot cards in the secrecy holder with the NUMBERED STUBS AT THE TOP and hand them,
along with the marking pen, to the precinct officer who shall in your presence remove the numbered stubs, hand
them to you, then deposit the voted ballot in the ballot box.

IF YOU VOTE BY MAIL: After you have completed voting, place your ballot cards in the secrecy holder and REMOVE THE
NUMBERED STUBS at the top. Place voted ballots into blue Identification Envelope and SIGN AND DATE WHERE
INDICATED.

To vote for a candidate whose name appears on the ballot, FILL IN THE RECTANGLE in the square to the right
of the candidate’s name. Where two or more candidates for the same office are to be elected, FILL IN THE
RECTANGLE in the square to the right of the names of all the candidates for the office for whom you desire to
vote, not to exceed, however, the number of candidates to be elected.

To vote on any measure, FILL IN THE RECTANGLE in the square after the word “YES” or after the word “NO.”

To vote for a qualified WRITE-IN candidate, write the person’s name in the blank space provided for that purpose after the
names of the other candidates for the same office and FILL IN THE RECTANGLE in the square to the right of the name you
have written in, or your vote will not be counted. Only the office of President and Vice President and local offices allow for
write-in candidates under Proposition 14.

It is important to know what the consequences can be when ballot cards are not marked correctly. Marking more
voting spaces than allowed is called an OVERVOTE. If the contest heading states “Vote for no more than two,” and
you mark three voting spaces, your votes for that contest will not be counted. Marking fewer spaces than allowed
for a contest is called an UNDERVOTE. If the contest heading states “Vote for no more than two,” and you mark
only one voting space, your vote for the one candidate will be counted, and the ballot counting system will record
one UNDERVOTE. You are not required to vote on every proposition or measure on the ballot; however, for every
proposition or measure on which you choose not to vote, an UNDERVOTE will be recorded.

Marking the ballot outside of the designated space to vote for a candidate or measure may compromise the secrecy
of the ballot. If you wrongly mark, tear, or deface this ballot, return it to the precinct officer. If you vote by mail,
follow the instructions on the IDENTIFICATION ENVELOPE to request a replacement.

HOW TO VOTE YOUR BALLOT CARDS

MAKE SURE YOU VOTE BOTH SIDES OF YOUR BALLOT CARDS

STEP 1

Remove ballot cards from the secrecy holder.

STEP 2

Fill in the small rectangle in the square to the right of the candidates
or measures of your choice.

DO NOT FILL IN THE WHOLE SQUARE, JUST THE SMALL
RECTANGLE, OR YOUR VOTE MAY NOT BE COUNTED. Use
only the marking pen provided at the polling place. If you vote by
mail, mark your choices with a ballpoint pen or standard pencil.

STEP 3

After you have completed voting, place your ballot cards, with the
stubs at the top, in the secrecy holder. IF YOU VOTE AT A
POLLING PLACE, hand them, along with the marking pen, to the
precinct officer. IF YOU VOTE BY MAIL, follow the instructions on
the Identification Envelope.

49-W-UOV (1116)

ATTENTION VOTE BY MAIL VOTERS!

FORGOT TO MAIL YOUR BALLOT? CAN’T FIND A STAMP?

Ballot Drop Off Locations will be open TWO	YS	Y!

October 29 and November 5, 2016, 10 a.m. - 4 p.m.

Cloverdale Veteran’s Memorial Building

205 West First St., Cloverdale

Cotati Veteran’s Memorial Building

8505 Park Ave., Cotati

Guerneville Veteran’s Memorial Building

First S Church St., Guerneville

Healdsburg City Hall

401 Grove St., Healdsburg

A Petaluma Veteran’s Memorial Building

1094 Petaluma Blvd. South, Petaluma

oNi Callinan Sports & Fitness Center

tle\ML°cA‘t' 5405 Snyder Lane, Rohnert Park

A Santa Rosa Veteran’s Memorial Building

1351 Maple Ave., Santa Rosa

Sebastopol Veteran’s Memorial Building/Center for the Arts

282 South High St., Sebastopol

Sonoma Veteran’s Memorial Building

126 First St. West, Sonoma

Windsor Town Hall

9291 Old Redwood Hwy. Bldg. 400, Windsor

Sonoma County Registrar of Voters Office

435 Fiscal Dr., Santa Rosa (This location has a 24-hour drop box.)

Do not mail your Vote by Mail ballot after Wednesday, November 2, 2016; it may
arrive too late to be counted. For last-minute returns, go to your nearest Drop Off
Location on a Saturday listed above, or return your ballot to any polling place in
Sonoma County on Election Day, Novembers, 2016, 7 a.m.-8 p.m. only.

IMPORTANT! Return your Vote by Mail ballot as soon as possible; it must be postmarked before or on
Election Day. Vote by Mail ballots returned to a polling place will not be counted on Election Night but
will be included in the final official counts.

« Can’t make a Saturday Drop Off?

Sanfa Rosa 6 Petaluma locations now have a 24-hr DRIVE-THRU BALLOT DROP BOX.
Drive-thru Drop Boxes open October 24.

49-F-DRP

Candidates for State Legislative Office - Voluntary Expenditure Limits

The following listing includes all candidates for state legislative offices in Sonoma County. Those candidates who have agreed to voluntary expenditure limits pursuant to
Government Code Section 85400 are marked with an asterisk (*). Candidates for state legislative offices are eligible to purchase space to have a statement printed in the
Voter Information Pamphlet only if they have agreed to the voluntary expenditure limits. The candidates running for the voter-nominated offices that represent the
jurisdictions in which you reside, and for whom you are eligible to vote, appear on the Sample Ballot pages in the combined Sample Ballot/Voter Information Pamphlet.

STATE SENATOR, 3RD DISTRICT	MEMBER OF THE STATE ASSEMBLY, 2ND DISTRICT	MEMBER OF THE STATE ASSEMBLY, 4TH DISTRICT	MEMBER OF THE STATE ASSEMBLY, 10TH DISTRICT
* Bill Dodd, Democratic	* Ken Anton, Libertarian	* Cecilia M. Aguiar-Curry, Democratic	* Veronica “Roni” Jacobi, Democratic
* Mariko Yamada, Democratic	* Jim Wood, Democratic	* Charlie Schaupp, Republican	* Marc Levine, Democratic

IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT YOUR OFFICIAL BALLOT: Due to space limitations, the following abbreviations for political
parties have been approved by the Secretary of State for use on official ballots:

Al - American Independent	DEM - Democratic	GRN - Green

LIB - Libertarian	PF - Peace and Freedom	REP - Republican

The party preference, if any, designated by a candidate for a voter-nominated office is selected by the candidate and is shown for the information of the
voters only. It does not imply that the candidate is nominated or endorsed by the party or that the party approves of the candidate. The party preference, if
any, of a candidate for a nonpartisan office does not appear on the ballot.

Political Party Endorsements for Voter-Nominated Offices

Pursuant to state law, each qualified political party may submit a list of endorsements of candidates for voter-nominated offices to be printed in the Voter Information
Pamphlet. Official party endorsements, by district, are listed below.

	Peace and Freedom	Republican	Democratic
U.S. Senate	no endorsement	no endorsement	Kamala D. Harris
2nd Congressional	no endorsement	Dale K. Mensing	Jared W. Huffman
5th Congressional	no endorsement	Carlos Santamaria	Mike Thompson
3rd Senate	no endorsement	no endorsement	Bill Dodd
2nd Assembly	no endorsement	no endorsement	Jim Wood
4th Assembly	no endorsement	Charlie Schaupp	Cecilia M. Aguiar-Curry
10th Assembly	no endorsement	no endorsement	Marc Levine

SPECIAL NOTICE

Sonoma County voters will vote on 78 different contests in the
November 8,2016, General Election. Based on where you reside, you will receive one
version of the ballot (called a "ballot type") that includes all contests and measures for which
you are eligible to vote. Sonoma County has 119 different ballot types!

The ballot contains an unusually large number of State Propositions (Propositions 51-67);
Sonoma County has an additional 23 local school, county, city, and special district measures.
Review your Sample Ballot for a preview; when you receive your ballot, be sure to check both
sides of every ballot so you don't miss the opportunity to vote for each contest.

49-F-EXP

WHY DOES IT TAKE SO LONG TO GET OFFICIAL RESULTS AFTER AN ELECTION?

HOW ARE ELECTIONS “CALLED” ON ELECTION NIGHT BUT OFFICIAL RESULTS AREN’T RELEASED FOR 30 DAYS?

After Election Day officials have up to 30 days to finalize (“canvass”) and certify results. This includes handling all “unprocessed
ballots” which must be inspected, verified, researched, and prepared for tallying. Over 40,000 vote by mail and provisional ballots
were turned in on Election Day last June! “Unprocessed ballots” are a major cause of delays in releasing election results.

CAN ANYTHING BE DONE TO SPEED UP RESULTS? YES! HERE’S HOW:

*IF YOU VOTE BY MAIL, RETURN YOUR BALLOT BY MAIL ASAP. Ballots received before Election Day allow time to prepare
them for counting. If it’s too late to mail, take it to a Drop Off location (the schedule is listed in this Voter Information Pamphlet). Vote
by mail ballots returned to the polls on Election Day take several days to process during the canvass.

■^GO TO THE POLLING PLACE ASSIGNED TO YOU. Polling places can change! Check the back of your Sample Ballot Book or
look it up at vote.sonoma-county.org. If you go to the wrong polling place, you will be given a provisional ballot. These take several
days to individually research and process during the canvass and add significant delays in finalizing results.

*CHECK YOUR REGISTRATION. Make sure you are registered, and listed at your current residence address. Have you moved
recently? Changed your name? You must re-register to change this information. Check your registration at vote.sonoma-county.org,
or call the Registrar of Voters Office. If you are not registered correctly, you will receive a provisional ballot at the polls. Provisional
ballots are time-consuming to process and add significant delays in finalizing results.

*IF YOU VOTE BY MAIL, DON’T FORGET TO SIGN YOUR BALLOT! “Signature Problem” ballots require special handling and
delay all procedures in the canvass. See Tips below to make sure your ballot will be counted and does not add to delays.

*DO NOT FOLD OR TEAR, SPILL FOOD, OR MAKE STRAY MARKS ON YOUR BALLOT. Because damaged ballots may be
rejected by tallying machines, each damaged card must be individually duplicated onto a new card by a team, which is very time-
consuming. Each election, thousands of cards are returned damaged, and take days during the canvass to complete.

MAKE SURE YOUR VOTE BY MAIL BALLOT IS COUNTED!

Elections Officials must compare signatures on Vote by Mail envelopes with signatures on file before ballots may be counted.

If a voter's signature does not appear to be the same as that on the original affidavit of registration, the ballot may be rejected.

Check the status of your ballot by going to the “Voter Information Lookup” at vote.sonoma-countv.org or call the Registrar of Voters Office.
NOTE: Web look-ups are refreshed at least once per week; please allow 3-4 days after mailing for processing and posting to the web.

FOLLOW THE TIPS BELOW TO AVOID COMMON ERRORS.

COMPARE:

Signature on File	Identification	Envelope

PROBLEM: Signature Not Provided

All vote by mail ballots must have the voter's signature. Double check
that you signed in the signature box provided before inserting your ballot
into the Identification Envelope and returning it.

PROBLEM: Voter Signature is Printed

When you registered to vote, if you signed your name in a cursive style,
the signature on the ballot Identification Envelope must also be in cursive
(not “printed” in block style).

PROBLEM: Signature Does not Match

The signature does not match the registration form on file. If your signa-
ture has changed, complete a new voter registration form at the same
time you sign your Identification Envelope, then return them together.

PROBLEM: Voter Signed Wrong Envelope

Sometimes voters living in the same household mix up and sign the wrong
envelope—especially if they have similar names! Double check the
pre-printed information on the Identification Envelope to be sure you sign
the correct one.

49-F-EDAY

IT IS IMPORTANT THAT YOU MARK YOUR BALLOT
CORRECTLY IN ORDER FOR YOUR VOTES TO COUNT.
HERE ARE A FEW REMINDERS:

DO:

•	If you vote by mail, use a blue or black ball point
pen or standard pencil (at the polls, you will be
given a pen made specifically for marking ballots).

•	Request a new ballot if you make an
error on your Vote by Mail ballot (call the
Registrar of Voters Office for information).

UNITED STATES REPRESENTATIVE

10th District______________ Vote	for	One

MARY MAROON

Businesswoman



Mark within the voting space (outlined in red)
directly to the right of your choice (do not

mark in gray areas).	JOHN GRAY  Businessman	nn
• Use the write-in space for write-in candidates;	MARK WHITE  State Senator	nn
write-in votes will count only if the name >N^ appears on the “Certified List of Write-in Candidates” AND you mark the voting space	MARY BLACK  Attorney	n=\
			a	1—1

STATE SENATOR

20th District

Vote for One

next to the name.

• Insert your Vote By Mail ballot card(s) into
the blue Identification Envelope and
remember to sign and date it.

DO NOT:

•	Make extraneous marks, especially in the
gray areas or edges of the ballot cards.

•	Fold or mutilate the ballot card(s). If you
tear your Vote by Mail ballot, call the
Registrar of Voters Office to request another.

•	Use “white out” or other correction fluid
to cover errors.

•	Vote for more candidates than allowed
(this will cause all votes for that contest
to be voided).

49-F-BAL

Sample Ballot

OFFICIAL BALLOT

NONPARTISAN BALLOT
Sonoma County

November 8, 2016

This ballot stub shall be removed and retained by the voter.

PARTY-NOMINATED OFFICES	
PRESIDENT AND VICE PRESIDENT  Vote for One Party	
HILLARY CLINTON, for President DEM TIM KAINE, for Vice President	□
GLORIA ESTELA LA RIVA, for President PF DENNIS J. BANKS, for Vice President	□
DONALD J. TRUMP, for President REP, Al MICHAEL R. PENCE, for Vice President	□
GARY JOHNSON, for President LIB BILL WELD, for Vice President	□
JILL STEIN, for President GRN AJAMU BARAKA, for Vice President	□
	2
VOTER-NOMINATED AND NONPARTISAN OFFICES	
UNITED STATES SENATOR  Vote for One	
KAMALA D. HARRIS, Party Preference: DEM Attorney General of California	a
LORETTA L. SANCHEZ, Party Preference: DEM United States Congresswoman	nn
UNITED STATES REPRESENTATIVE 5th District Vote for One	
CARLOS SANTAMARIA, Party Preference: REP Business Owner/Consultant	czi
MIKE THOMPSON, Party Preference: DEM Member of Congress	=1
MEMBER OF THE STATE ASSEMBLY 2nd District Vote for One	~
KEN ANTON, Party Preference: LIB	
JIM WOOD, Party Preference: DEM California State Assemblvmember	'
	

I HAVE VOTED—HAVE YOU?

:

MEASURES SUBMITTED TO THE VOTERS

STATE

51

No

SCHOOL BONDS. FUNDING FOR K-12 Yes
SCHOOL AND COMMUNITY COLLEGE
FACILITIES. INITIATIVE STATUTE. Autho-
rizes $9 billion in general obligation bonds for
new construction and modernization of K-12 public school
facilities; charter schools and vocational education facilities;
and California Community Colleges facilities. Fiscal Impact:
State costs of about $17.6 billion to pay off both the principal
($9 billion) and interest ($8.6 billion) on the bonds. Payments
of about $500 million per year for 35 years.

Yes

No

MEDI-CAL HOSPITAL FEE PROGRAM. INI-
co TIATIVE CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT
AND STATUTE. Extends indefinitely an existing
statute that imposes fees on hospitals to fund
Medi-Cal health care services, care for uninsured patients,
and children’s health coverage. Fiscal Impact: Uncertain fiscal
effect, ranging from relatively little impact to annual state
General Fund savings of around $1 billion and increased
funding for public hospitals in the low hundreds of millions of
dollars annually.

No

REVENUE BONDS. STATEWIDE VOTER Yes
m APPROVAL. INITIATIVE CONSTITUTIONAL
AMENDMENT. Requires statewide voter ap-
proval before any revenue bonds can be issued
or sold by the state for certain projects if the bond amount
exceeds $2 billion. Fiscal Impact: State and local fiscal effects
are unknown and would depend on which projects are affected
by the measure and what actions government agencies and
voters take in response to the measure’s voting requirement.

Yes

No

LEGISLATURE. LEGISLATION AND PRO-
c a CEEDINGS. INITIATIVE CONSTITUTIONAL
AMENDMENT AND STATUTE. Prohibits Leg-
islature from passing any bill unless published
on Internet for 72 hours before vote. Requires Legislature to
record its proceedings and post on Internet. Authorizes use
of recordings. Fiscal Impact: One-time costs of $1 million to
$2 million and ongoing costs of about $1 million annually to
record legislative meetings and make videos of those meet-
ings available on the Internet.

jre to I
s use
on to
illy to
neet-

Yes

No

TAX EXTENSION TO FUND EDUCATION AND
EC HEALTHCARE. INITIATIVE CONSTITUTIONAL
AMENDMENT. Extends by twelve years the
temporary personal income tax increases en-
acted in 2012 on earnings over $250,000, with revenues allo-
cated to K-12 schools, California Community Colleges, and,
in certain years, healthcare. Fiscal Impact: Increased state
revenues—$4 billion to $9 billion annually from 2019-
2030—depending on economy and stock market. Increased
funding for schools, community colleges, health care for
low-income people, budget reserves, and debt payments.

49-A001

TURN CARD OVER

49-A002

TURN CARD OVER

Sample Ballot

Sample Ballot

B

OFFICIAL BALLOT

NONPARTISAN BALLOT
Sonoma County

November 8, 2016

This ballot stub shall be removed and retained by the voter.

MEASURES SUBMITTED TO THE VOTERS

STATE

No

CIGARETTE TAX TO FUND HEALTHCARE, Yes
ec TOBACCO USE PREVENTION, RESEARCH,

00 AND LAW ENFORCEMENT. INITIATIVE CON-
STITUTIONAL AMENDMENT AND STATUTE.

Increases cigarette tax by $2.00 per pack, with equivalent in-
crease on other tobacco products and electronic cigarettes
containing nicotine. Fiscal Impact: Additional net state revenue
of $1 billion to $1.4 billion in 2017-18, with potentially lower
revenues in future years. Revenues would be used primarily to
augment spending on health care for low-income Californians.

CRIMINAL SENTENCES. PAROLE. JUVE-
c7 NILE CRIMINAL PROCEEDINGS AND SEN-
01 TENCING. INITIATIVE CONSTITUTIONAL

Yes

No

AMENDMENT AND STATUTE. Allows parole
consideration for nonviolent felons. Authorizes sentence cred-
its for rehabilitation, good behavior, and education. Provides
juvenile court judge decides whether juvenile will be prose-
cuted as adult. Fiscal Impact: Net state savings likely in the
tens of millions of dollars annually, depending on implemen-
tation. Net county costs of likely a few million dollars annually.

58

Yes

No

ENGLISH PROFICIENCY. MULTILINGUAL
EDUCATION. INITIATIVE STATUTE. Pre-
serves requirement that public schools ensure
students obtain English language proficiency.
Requires school districts to solicit parent/community input in
developing language acquisition programs. Requires instruc-
tion to ensure English acquisition as rapidly and effectively
as possible. Authorizes school districts to establish dual-
language immersion programs for both native and non-native
English speakers. Fiscal Impact: No notable fiscal effect on
school districts or state government.

59

CORPORATIONS. POLITICAL SPENDING.
FEDERAL CONSTITUTIONAL PROTECTIONS.
LEGISLATIVE ADVISORY QUESTION. Asks
whether California’s elected officials should use
their authority to propose and ratify an amendment to the fed-
eral Constitution overturning the United States Supreme
Court decision in Citizens United v. Federal Election Commission.
Citizens United ruled that laws placing certain limits on political
spending by corporations and unions are unconstitutional.
Fiscal Impact: No direct fiscal effect on state or local govern-
ments. VOTER INSTRUCTION: Shall California’s elected
officials use all of their constitutional authority, including, but
not limited to, proposing and ratifying one or more amend-
ments to the United States Constitution, to overturn Citizens
United v. Federal Election Commission (2010) 558 U.S. 310,
and other applicable judicial precedents, to allow the full regu-
lation or limitation of campaign contributions and spending, to
ensure that all citizens, regardless of wealth, may express
their views to one another, and to make clear that corporations
should not have the same constitutional rights as human beings?

Yes	□
No	□

49-B003

TURN CARD OVER

B

B

I HAVE VOTED—HAVE YOU?

MEASURES SUBMITTED TO THE VOTERS

STATE

60

Yes

No

ADULT FILMS. CONDOMS. HEALTH RE-
QUIREMENTS. INITIATIVE STATUTE. Re-
quires adult film performers to use condoms
during filming of sexual intercourse. Requires
producers to pay for performer vaccinations, testing, and
medical examinations. Requires producers to post condom
requirement at film sites. Fiscal Impact: Likely reduction of
state and local tax revenues of several million dollars annu-
ally. Increased state spending that could exceed $1 million
annually on regulation, partially offset by new fees.

61

No

STATE PRESCRIPTION DRUG PURCHASES. Yes
PRICING STANDARDS. INITIATIVE STATUTE.

Prohibits state from buying any prescription drug
from a drug manufacturer at price over lowest
price paid for the drug by United States Department of Veter-
ans Affairs. Exempts managed care programs funded
through Medi-Cal. Fiscal Impact: Potential for state savings
of an unknown amount depending on (1) how the measure’s
implementation challenges are addressed and (2) the re-
sponses of drug manufacturers regarding the provision and
pricing of their drugs.

No

DEATH PENALTY. INITIATIVE STATUTE. Yes

po Repeals death penalty and replaces it with life
imprisonment without possibility of parole. Ap-
plies retroactively to existing death sentences.
Increases the portion of life inmates’ wages that may be ap-
plied to victim restitution. Fiscal Impact: Net ongoing reduction
in state and county criminal justice costs of around $150 million
annually within a few years, although the impact could vary
by tens of millions of dollars depending on various factors.

63

Yes

No

FIREARMS. AMMUNITION SALES. INITIA-
TIVE STATUTE. Requires background check
and Department of Justice authorization to pur-
chase ammunition. Prohibits possession of
large-capacity ammunition magazines. Establishes procedures
for enforcing laws prohibiting firearm possession by specified
persons. Requires Department of Justice’s participation in
federal National Instant Criminal Background Check System.
Fiscal Impact: Increased state and local court and law en-
forcement costs, potentially in the tens of millions of dollars
annually, related to a new court process for removing fire-
arms from prohibited persons after they are convicted.

49-B004

TURN CARD OVER

B

Sample Ballot

Sample Ballot

OFFICIAL BALLOT

NONPARTISAN BALLOT
Sonoma County

November 8, 2016

This ballot stub shall be removed and retained by the voter.

MEASURES SUBMITTED TO THE VOTERS

STATE

64

No

MARIJUANA LEGALIZATION. INITIATIVE Yes
STATUTE. Legalizes marijuana under state
law, for use by adults 21 or older. Imposes state
taxes on sales and cultivation. Provides
for industry licensing and establishes standards for mari-
juana products. Allows local regulation and taxation. Fiscal
Impact: Additional tax revenues ranging from high hundreds
of millions of dollars to over $1 billion annually, mostly dedi-
cated to specific purposes. Reduced criminal justice costs of
tens of millions of dollars annually.

CARRYOUT BAGS. CHARGES. INITIATIVE
(jc STATUTE. Redirects money collected by gro-
eery and certain other retail stores through man-
dated sale of carryout bags. Requires stores to

Yes

No

deposit bag sale proceeds into a special fund to support
specified environmental projects. Fiscal Impact: Potential
state revenue of several tens of millions of dollars annually
under certain circumstances, with the monies used to sup-
port certain environmental programs.

66

Yes

No

DEATH PENALTY. PROCEDURES. INITIATIVE
STATUTE. Changes procedures governing
state court challenges to death sentences.

Designates superior court for initial petitions
and limits successive petitions. Requires appointed attor-
neys who take noncapital appeals to accept death penalty
appeals. Exempts prison officials from existing regulation
process for developing execution methods. Fiscal Impact:
Unknown ongoing impact on state court costs for processing
legal challenges to death sentences. Potential prison savings
in the tens of millions of dollars annually.

BAN ON SINGLE-USE PLASTIC BAGS.
erf REFERENDUM. A “Yes” vote approves, and a
“No” vote rejects, a statute that prohibits
grocery and other stores from providing cus-

Yes

No

tomers single-use plastic or paper carryout bags but permits
sale of recycled paper bags and reusable bags. Fiscal Impact:
Relatively small fiscal effects on state and local govern-
ments, including a minor increase in state administrative
costs and possible minor local government savings from
reduced litter and waste management costs.

I HAVE VOTED—HAVE YOU?

SCHOOL	
SONOMA COUNTY JUNIOR COLLEGE DISTRICT	
Governing Board Member Vote for no Santa Rosa Area more than Two	
DON EDGAR  SRJC Trustee	a
RICHARD W. (RICK) CALL  Incumbent	c=i
MARIANA G. MARTINEZ  Professor/Research Coordinator	i=i
	i=i
	=1
CITY OF SANTA ROSA HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT	
Vote for no  Governing Board Member more than Four	
JENNI KLOSE  Member, School Board	=i
ED SHEFFIELD  Legislative Aide, Parent	1=1
EVELYN ANDERSON  Parent/Education Advocate	1=1
LAURA GONZALEZ  Incumbent	1=1
LAURIE FONG  Teacher, Principal, Parent	=1
CAROLINE BANUELOS  Volunteer Relations Manager	=1
	=1
	=1
	c=
	
	

49-C005

TURN CARD OVER

49-C024

TURN CARD OVER

Sample Ballot

Sample Ballot

OFFICIAL BALLOT

NONPARTISAN BALLOT
Sonoma County

November 8, 2016

This ballot stub shall be removed and retained by the voter.

CITY		
CITY OF SANTA ROSA		
Vote for no  Member, City Council more than Four		
ERNESTO OLIVARES  Councilmember		1=1
CHRIS ROGERS  Green Energy Businessman		[=1
BRANDI ASKER  Business Manager/Mother		1=1
JULIE COMBS  City Councilwoman, Businesswoman		1=
DON TAYLOR  Businessman		1=
JACK TIBBETTS  Renewable Energy Consultant		1=1
		=1
		=1
		=1
		=1
MEASURES SUBMITTED TO THE VOTERS		
COUNTY		
In order to preserve rural open space and agri- ix cultural land, maintain community identities, and prevent sprawl, shall the “Community Sep- arators Protection Ordinance” be adopted to amend the Sonoma County General Plan to require approval of changes to the General Plan that incr the allowed density or intensity of development v Community Separators until December 31, 2036, ai repeal Ordinance 5145R?	Yes	=□
	No	1=1
	voter ease vithin id to	
SONOMA COUNTY TOURIST TAX: To address 1 the impacts of tourists by investing in roads,  L emergency response, workforce housing for families and veterans, water quality protection, and other County services, shall Sonoma County incr the transient occupancy tax from 9% to 12%, until repe and paid only by guests staying overnight at lodging fac within the unincorporated area, in line with many neighb cities and counties, providing $4 million annually to County services, subject to annual audits?	Yes	1=1
	No	1=1
	■ease  ialed,  :ilities  oring  local	
		

I HAVE VOTED—HAVE YOU?

49-D039

TURN CARD OVER

;

MEASURES SUBMITTED TO THE VOTERS		
COUNTY		
Shall the “Sonoma County Transgenic Con- iui tamination Prevention Ordinance,” which would IYI 1) prohibit the propagation, cultivation, raising, or growing of genetically engineered organisms, as defined in the ordinance, in the unincorporated Co 2) require the Sonoma County Agricultural Commissior enforce the ordinance by assessing a civil monetary pe or pursuing an injunction against violators; and 3) provic fines and fees for each violation, be adopted?	Yes	L=
	No	1=1
	® § R 0 ^	
CITY		
CITY OF SANTA ROSA		
Santa Rosa City Services Measure. To  ki maintain financial stability and funding, without increasing taxes, for city services, such as po- lice/fire protection; 9-1-1 emergency response; street/pothole repair; parks/recreation programs; affori housing/homelessness services; and other genera services, shall the City of Santa Rosa extend an existing,1 approved V4 cent sales tax for eight additional years, pro\ approximately $8 million annually; requiring independent i public spending review, and all funds controlled locally?	Yes	=3
	No	1=1
	jable 1 city voter- /iding audits,	
City of Santa Rosa Public Safety Spending rv Levels. Shall the City of Santa Rosa amend u the minimum funding requirements for public safety services, including police, fire, and gang- prevention, to reflect City FY 2015-16 General Fund bi levels?	Yes	1=1
	No	1=1
	jdget	
DISTRICT		
SONOMA COUNTY LIBRARY		
To maintain, restore/enhance Library services y including: maintaining children’s/teen books, 1 materials/services; providing educational services, includina homework helD/comouter	Yes	1=
	No	CZI
labs; expanding senior/disabled services; keeping qualified librarians; restoring library hours; shall the Sonoma County Library increase the sales tax by 1/8 of a percent, providing $12,000,000 annually for ten years, and increase the spend- ing limit to allow use of the revenue, with independent audits, citizen oversight, requiring all funds go to Sonoma County Library/no money for Sacramento?		
		

49-D038

TURN CARD OVER

Sample Ballot

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

U.S. REPRESENTATIVE CANDIDATES’ STATEMENTS OF QUALIFICATIONS

The following pages may not contain a complete list of candidates. A complete list of candidates appears on the Sample Ballot.
Each statement is volunteered by, and (unless otherwise determined by the governing body) is printed at the expense of, the candidate.

U.S. REPRESENTATIVE, 5th DISTRICT	REPRESENTANTE DE LOS ESTADOS UNIDOS, DISTRITO 5
MIKE THOMPSON	MIKE THOMPSON
1 am honored to represent Sonoma County in Congress, where my top priority is serving the people of our district.  1 was born, grew up and still live in our district today. My wife is a nurse, one of my sons is a Deputy Sheriff, and one of my granddaughters attends school in our district. It is the highest honor and greatest privilege to work in Congress on behalf of my friends and neighbors at home.  1 have strong working relationships with local and county officials and commu- nity members. Together, we secured federal funds to extend Sonoma County Airport’s runways and SMART Rail service.  1 have supported job-creating investments in infrastructure and renewable energy, worked to reduce our debt with fiscally-responsible policies and have preserved our district’s pristine lands. And, I’m leading the effort to ensure criminals and the dangerously mentally ill don’t have easy access to guns, while protecting the Second Amendment rights of law-abiding individuals to own firearms.  1 will continue to protect Social Security and Medicare and will keep fighting for comprehensive immigration reform. As a Vietnam veteran, 1 will continue to support our veterans and their families.  Together, we can continue working to find solutions to the challenges we face today, and ensure that Sonoma County remains one of the best places to live, work, raise a family and start a business. On November 8th, 1 respectfully request your vote.  To learn more, please visit: http://www.mikethompsonforcongress.com/.	Es un honor representar al condado de Sonoma en el Congreso, donde mi prioridad maxima es servir a la gente de nuestro distrito.  Nad, cred y, hoy en dia, aun vivo en nuestro distrito. Mi esposa es enfermera, uno de mis hijos es alguacil adjunto y una de mis nietas asiste a la escuela en nuestro distrito. Es un gran privilegio y honor trabajar en el Congreso en nombre de mis amigos y vecinos en casa.  Tengo una solida relation laboral con los funcionarios locales y del condado y con los miembros de la comunidad. Juntos, hemos asegurado fondos federales para ampliar las pistas del aeropuerto del condado de Sonoma y el servicio del Transporte Ferroviario del Area de Sonoma-Marin (Sonoma-Marin Area Rail Transit, SMART).  He apoyado las inversiones que generan empleos en el sector de la infraestructura y la energia renovable, he trabajado con politicas fiscalmente responsables para reducir nuestra deuda y he preservado las tierras virgenes de nuestro distrito. Dirijo los esfuerzos para garantizar que los criminales y los enfermos mentales peligrosos no tengan acceso a las armas, al mismo tiempo que protejo los derechos de la Segunda Enmienda para que los individuos que respetan las leyes puedan poseer armas de fuego.  Seguire protegiendo al Seguro Social y a Medicare, y seguire luchando por una reforma integral de Emigration. Como veterano de la guerra de Vietnam, seguire apoyando a nuestros veteranos y a sus familias.  Juntos, podemos seguir trabajando para encontrarsoluciones para los retos a los que nos enfrentamos en la actualidad y garantizar que el condado de Sonoma siga siendo uno de los mejores lugares para vivir, trabajar, criar una familia y comenzar un negocio. Respetuosamente les pido su voto este 8 de noviembre.  Para obtener mas information, visite: http://www.mikethompsonforcongress.com/.
	

VOTER’S PAMPHLET STATE LEGISLATIVE CANDIDATES’ STATEMENTS OF QUALIFICATIONS  The following pages may not contain a complete list of candidates. A complete list of candidates appears on the Sample Ballot.  Pursuant to Government Code Section 85601(c), only a candidate who accepts voluntary expenditure limits may purchase space for a statement.	
MEMBER OF THE STATE ASSEMBLY, 2nd DISTRICT	
KEN ANTON  1 have lived in our Assembly district for over 20 years. 1 am a husband, 1 am a father of two teenagers, and 1 owned a business here for 18 years.  1 am running for office out of concern for the people that 1 live and work with. 1 am concerned that many representatives in government are losing sight of the important principle of individual rights. Government routinely spends money that it doesn’t have-money that it will eventually need to take away from others, including from future generations. 1 believe that winning votes by promising to spend other people’s money is wrong.  1 am concerned about the growing practice of cronyism and corruption, as politicians perform special favors for their donors.  1 support the entire Bill of Rights, and believe that the government must ensure an equal playing field for everyone, not just the well-connected. 1 will work to defend all of our Second Amendment gun rights, keep Proposition 13 limits on property taxes, and keep church and state separate. 1 defend the rights of women to make their own reproductive choices, and support marriage rights for all.  1 excel at thinking “several steps ahead,” and will not be afraid to point out the potential unintended, negative consequences of “feel-good” legislation - legislation that sounds good, but may really do more harm than good.  Please visit my websites at kenanton.org and www.facebook.com/KenAntonforAssembly. Let’s protect our freedom and spend wisely!	
MEMBER OF THE STATE ASSEMBLY, 2nd DISTRICT	MIEMBRO DE LA ASAMBLEA ESTATAL, DISTRITO 2
JIM WOOD  It is an honor to serve as your Assemblymember.  Your vote for me means that we can continue to develop job opportunities, improve services, increase access to health care and protect the environment.  Our district is among the most beautiful in California, and 1 remain a tireless advo- cate for our coastline, forests, and rivers. 1 worked with Governor Brown to write the Medical Marijuana Regulation and Safety Act. This new law will protect our water supplies and the environment while restoring damage caused by rogue marijuana growers.  It is clear that many Californians have not yet recovered from the recession. One of my top priorities is to restore services to our large and diverse district and develop employment opportunities.  1 am working to secure economic development funding to support our schools, ex- pand affordable housing, and improve health and other services.  It is amazing that in 2016 we still lack reliable internet connectivity. 1 am fighting for funding to improve internet access to our rural areas in order to enhance education, telemedicine, economic development, and public safety services.  As a healthcare provider, 1 deeply understand the challenges we all have access- ing quality health care. 1 am working to attract more providers and services to our communities.  1 want to hear your concerns and ideas. Feel free to contact me at www.jim-wood.com. 1 am accessible, committed, and hard working. Together we can achieve progress. 1 would be honored to have your vote.	JIM WOOD  Es un honor servirles como su asambleista.  Para mi, su voto significa que puedo seguir creando oportunidades de trabajo, al mejorar los servicios, aumentar el acceso a la atencion de la salud y proteger el medio ambiente.  Nuestro distrito se encuentra entre los mas bellos de California y sigo siendo un incansable defensor de nuestra costa y nuestros bosques y rios. He trabajado con el gobernador Brown para crear la Ley sobre la Regulation y la Seguridad de la Marihuana Medicinal. Esta nueva ley protegera nuestros suministros de agua y el medio ambiente, al mismo tiempo que restaurara el dano causado por los cultivadores de marihuana deshonestos.  Esta claro que muchos californianos todavia no se recuperan de la recesion. Una de mis principales prioridades es restaurar los servicios para nuestro grande y diverso distrito y crear oportunidades de empleo.  Trabajo para asegurar fondos para el desarrollo economico para apoyar a nuestras escuelas, ampliar las oportunidades de vivienda asequible, y mejorar los servicios de salud y otros servicios.  Es increible que en 2016 todavia no tengamos una conexion de Internet fiable. Lucho por tener fondos para mejorar el acceso a internet en nuestras areas rurales y asi enriquecer la education, la telemedicina, el desarrollo economico y los servicios de seguridad publica.  Como proveedor de atencion medica, entiendo a fondo los retos que a todos se nos presentan para tener acceso a una atencion medica de calidad. Trabajo para atraer mas proveedores y servicios a nuestras comunidades.  Quiero escuchar sus ideas e inquietudes. Sientanse libres de contactarme a traves de www.jim-wood.com. Soy una persona accesible, comprometida y que trabaja arduamente. Juntos podemos lograr el progreso. Me sentiria honrado de tener su voto.

VOTER’S PAMPHLET LOCAL NONPARTISAN CANDIDATES’ STATEMENTS OF QUALIFICATIONS  The following pages may not contain a complete list of candidates. A complete list of candidates appears on the Sample Ballot. Each statement is volunteered by, and (unless otherwise determined by the governing body) is printed at the expense of, the candidate.	
SONOMA COUNTY JUNIOR COLLEGE DISTRICT SANTA ROSA AREA	DISTRITO DEL COLEGIO PREUNIVERSITARIO DEL CONDADO DE SONOMA, Area DE SANTA ROSA
DON EDGAR AGE: 57  Occupation: SRJC Trustee  As current President of the SRJC Board of Trustees, and an SRJC graduate 1 fully recognize the outstanding resources SRJC provides to all. At SRJC, 1 was on the water polo and swim teams, studying to transfer to a four-year college. My well-rounded education at SRJC allowed me to obtain a B.A. from the University of California, San Diego, and a law degree from the University of Southern California.  As an SRJC trustee, 1 wholeheartedly supported the Measure H bond, which will modernize SRJC’s technology and facilities as SRJC approaches its 100th Anniversary. My priority is to support sustainability, diversity and maintaining the unparalleled quality of SRJC faculty and staff.  1 also serve as a California Community College Trustee overseeing all 113 California Community Colleges. This allows me to advocate for SRJC on statewide issues. 1 have deep ties in the community as a member of the Sonoma County Taxpayers’ Association, Santa Rosa Downtown Association, Santa Rosa Board of Community Services, the Sonoma County Bar Association and Neptune Swimming.  1 am grateful for everything SRJC has provided me, and 1 hope to repay SRJC through service as an SRJC Trustee for another four years. 1 humbly ask for your vote.	DON EDGAR EDAD: 57  Ocupacion: sindico del Colegio Preuniversitario de Santa Rosa (Santa Rosa Junior College, SRJC)  Como actual presidente de la Junta de Sindicos de la SRJC y graduado de la SRJC, reconozco plenamente los recursos extraordinarios que la SRJC nos proporciona a todos. En la SRJC, era parte de los equipos de water polo y natacion, y estudiaba para transferirme a una universidad de cuatro anos. Mi educacion integral en la SRJC me permitio obtener una licenciatura de la Universidad de California, San Diego, y un titulo de la Universidad del Sur de California.  Como sindico de la SRJC, apoye con todo mi corazon los bonos de la Medida H, que modernizaran la tecnologia y las instalaciones de la SRJC conforme la SRJC se aproxima a su aniversario numero 100. Mi prioridad es apoyar la sostenibilidad, la diversidad y mantener la inigualable calidad de los profesores de la SRJC y su personal.  Tambien fui sindico de la Universidad Comunitaria de California y supervise las 113 universidades comunitarias de California. Esto me permite defender a la SRJC de problemas de todo el estado. Tengo fuertes vinculos con la comunidad como miembro de la Asociacion de Contribuyentes del Condado de Sonoma, la Asociacion del Centro de Santa Rosa, la Junta de Servicios Comunitarios de Santa Rosa, el Colegio de Abogados del Condado de Sonoma y Neptune Swimming.  Estoy agradecido por todo lo que la SRJC me ha brindado, y espero pagarle con mi servicio como sindico de la SRJC durante otros cuatro anos. Le pido humildemente su voto.
SONOMA COUNTY JUNIOR COLLEGE DISTRICT SANTA ROSA AREA	DISTRITO DEL COLEGIO PREUNIVERSITARIO DEL CONDADO DE SONOMA, Area DE SANTA ROSA
RICHARD W. (RICK) CALL AGE: 67  Occupation: Business Owner  As a lifetime Sonoma County resident and proud SRJC graduate 1 am honored to have served 24 years on the Board. 1 hope to continue to be part of maintaining SRJC’s reputation as one of the top two-year colleges in the nation.  As past Board President and chair of the Board Finance and Board Facilities Com- mittees, 1 have ensured that tax dollars directly supported student success. 1 also had the pleasure of overseeing the search process that culminated in hiring Dr. Frank Chong as our Superintendent/President.  1 believe that all students should be assured the opportunity to pursue their dreams through education. As a trustee 1 will continue to support making SRJC affordable and accessible. Whether the goal is to transfer to a four-year college or complete one of SRJC’s 150 occupational training programs, 1 believe the college must serve the needs of the diverse residents of the community.  The Board of Trustees’ legacy of strong leadership has long supported SRJC’s out- standing record of service to students and the local community. A vote for me will continue to give you a strong voice and the continuity necessary to keep SRJC at the forefront of quality educational programs and services.	RICHARD W. (RICK) CALL EDAD: 67  Ocupacion: empresario  Como residente de toda la vida del condado de Sonoma y orgulloso egresado del Colegio Preuniversitario de Santa Rosa (Santa Rosa Junior College, SRJC), me siento honrado de haber servido en la junta durante 24 anos. Espero continuar formando parte de quienes mantienen la reputation de la SRJC como una de las mejores universidades de dos anos en la nation.  Como anterior presidente de la junta y presidente de los comites de la Junta Financiera y la Junta de Instalaciones, he garantizado que los dolares de los impuestos apoyen directamente el exito de los estudiantes. Tambien tuve el placer de supervisar el proceso de busqueda que culmino en la contratacion del Dr. Frank Chong como nuestro superintendente/presidente.  Considero que se debe garantizar a todos los estudiantes la oportunidad de perseguir sus suenos por medio de la educacion. Como sindico, continuare apoyando la educacion asequible y accesible en la SRJC. No importa si el objetivo es transferirse a una universidad de cuatro anos o completar uno de los 150 programas de capacitacion laboral, creo que la universidad debe satisfacer las necesidades de los diversos residentes de la comunidad.  El legado de liderazgo solido de la Junta de Sindicos ha apoyado por muchos anos el extraordinario historial de servicio a los estudiantes y a la comunidad local. Un voto por ml continuara brindandoles una voz fuerte y la continuidad necesaria para mantener a la SRJC a la vanguardia de programas y servicios educativos de calidad.

VOTER’S PAMPHLET LOCAL NONPARTISAN CANDIDATES’ STATEMENTS OF QUALIFICATIONS  The following pages may not contain a complete list of candidates. A complete list of candidates appears on the Sample Ballot. Each statement is volunteered by, and (unless otherwise determined by the governing body) is printed at the expense of, the candidate.	
SONOMA COUNTY JUNIOR COLLEGE DISTRICT SANTA ROSA AREA	DISTRITO DEL COLEGIO PREUNIVERSITARIO DEL CONDADO DE SONOMA Area DE SANTA ROSA
MARIANA G. MARTINEZ AGE: 35  Occupation: Professor/Research Coordinator  I’m a lecturer and research coordinator at Sonoma State University; 1 have my doctorate degree in Education Policy, Organization and Leadership. For nearly twenty years I’ve been committed to educational equity; ensuring that marginalized students have access to a high quality and rigorous education. From teaching third graders to read at grade level to helping students apply to college and graduate school to developing support programs and services helping doctoral students earn their degree, the goal has always been the same - dream big and make it a re- ality.  Sonoma County’s economic reality means higher education is no longer a luxury but becoming a necessity to help residents provide for themselves and their families. SRJC plays a critical role in meeting this need; 1 have the knowledge, skills and experience to ensure accountability, access and success!  Student success requires support - academic, financial, and emotional, that’s why 1 support increasing counselors and tenure track faculty. Financial support is more than just financial aid, it’s about security with housing, food and transportation. I’ll work to bring affordable student housing back to Santa Rosa Junior College and expand transportation services.  This election 1 ask for your vote to help me create a stronger SRJC, a stronger community!  www.marianafortrustee.com	MARIANA G. MARTINEZ EDAD: 35  Ocupacion: profesora/coordinadora de investigaciones  Soy conferencista y coordinadora de investigaciones en la Universidad Estatal de Sonoma; tengo un doctorado en Politicas Educativas, Organization y Liderazgo. Durante casi veinte anos he estado comprometida con la igualdad de la educacion al garantizar que los estudiantes marginados tengan acceso a educacion de alta calidad y rigurosa. Desde ensenar a estudiantes de tercer grado a leer al nivel de su grado escolar hasta ayudar a los estudiantes a solicitar su ingreso a la universidad y posgrado, y desarrollar programas de apoyo que ayuden a los estudiantes de doctorado a obtener su titulo, el objetivo siempre ha sido el mismo: sonar en grande y hacerlo realidad.  La realidad economica del condado de Sonoma significa que una buena educacion ya no es un lujo, sino una necesidad para ayudar a nuestros residentes a mantenerse a sf mismos y a sus familias. El Colegio Preuniversitario de Santa Rosa (Santa Rosa Junior College, SRJC) desempena un papel importante en la satisfaccion de esta necesidad; jtengo el conocimiento, las habilidades y la experiencia para garantizar la rendicion de cuentas, el acceso y el exito!  El exito de los estudiantes requiere apoyo (academico, financiero y emocional), y es por eso que apoyo el aumento de asesores y profesores que buscan puestos permanentes. El apoyo financiero es mas que solamente ayuda financiera; se trata de seguridad de vivienda, alimentos y transporte. Trabajare para regresar las viviendas para estudiantes asequibles al Colegio Preuniversitario de Santa Rosa y aumentar los servicios de transporte.  Esta election le pido su voto para ayudarme a crear una SRJC mas solida, juna  comunidad mas solida!  www.marianafortrustee.com
	

2540

VOTER’S PAMPHLET LOCAL NONPARTISAN CANDIDATES’ STATEMENTS OF QUALIFICATIONS  The following pages may not contain a complete list of candidates. A complete list of candidates appears on the Sample Ballot. Each statement is volunteered by, and (unless otherwise determined by the governing body) is printed at the expense of, the candidate.	
CITY OF SANTA ROSA HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT	DISTRITO DE ESCUELAS SECUNDARIAS DE LA CIUDAD DE SANTA ROSA
JENNIKLOSE AGE: 47  Occupation: Current School Board Member/Attorney/non-profit President  My first term was a period of significant changes and improvements in the Santa Rosa City Schools. Working together, the board, teachers and staff raised high school graduation rates and created full college and career centers at every high school.  We passed essential financing to repair, improve and increase safety at our campuses. We kept more kids in school and improved campus culture by imple- menting restorative practices. We reduced suspensions by 50% and expulsions by 80%. We increased compensation and improved support and training for our teachers.  We worked to make our schools more equitable to ensure that all students’ needs are met. We revamped our career technical programs with input from local business and industry; created a community-driven strategic plan; and improved fiscal accountability and efficiency.  1 am proud of the changes our board has made working with teachers, staff, parents and the community. 1 am determined to see them fully implemented and maintained. 1 take my charge seriously because our community’s success, economically, socially, and culturally, depends on our students’ success.  1 endeavor to make thoughtful, independent decisions informed by data, community input and 1 am always guided by our students’ best interests and unique needs.  Visit www.kloseforschools.com	JENNIKLOSE EDAD: 47  Ocupadon: miembro actual de la Junta Escolar/abogada/presidenta de organization sin fines de lucre  Mi primer mandato fue un periodo de cambios y mejoras importantes en las escuelas de la Ciudad de Santa Rosa. Trabajando juntos, la junta, los maestros y el personal elevamos las tasas de graduation escolar y creamos centros completos de universidad y orientation profesional en cada escuela secundaria.  Aprobamos el financiamiento esencial para reparar, mejorar e incrementar la seguridad en nuestros campus. Mantuvimos a mas ninos en las escuelas y mejoramos la cultura en los campus al implementar practicas de restauracion. Redujimos las suspensiones en un 50% y las expulsiones en un 80%. Aumentamos la compensation y mejoramos el apoyo y la capacitacion para nuestros maestros.  Trabajamos para hacer nuestras escuelas mas equitativas para garantizar que se cumplan todas las necesidades de los estudiantes. Renovamos nuestros programas tecnicos de camera con comentarios de los negocios y la industria lo- cales; creamos un plan estrategico impulsado por la comunidad; y mejoramos la responsabilidad y la eficiencia fiscales.  Estoy orgullosa de los cambios que nuestra junta ha hecho al trabajarcon maestros, personal, padres y la comunidad. Estoy determinada a ver que se implementen por completo y se mantengan. Tomo mi puesto con seriedad porque el exito economico, social y cultural de nuestra comunidad depende del exito de nuestros estudiantes.  Me esfuerzo para tomar decisiones razonadas e independientes basadas en datos, los comentarios de la comunidad, y siempre me guian los mejores intereses y necesidades unicas de nuestros estudiantes.  Visite www.kloseforschools.com
CITY OF SANTA ROSA HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT	DISTRITO DE ESCUELAS SECUNDARIAS DE LA CIUDAD DE SANTA ROSA
ED SHEFFIELD AGE: 43  Occupation: Field Representative for California State Assembly  1 am running for school board because I’m passionate about public education and the critical role it plays in the health of our communities. As a father of two, 1 want to actively participate in their education by shaping policies that ensure opportunities for all children to thrive academically and be prepared for real life challenges. Our students deserve a well-rounded education that encompasses not only the fundamentals of reading, language, math and science, but also art, music and physical activity.  In my professional career, 1 have served as staff for members of congress and the state legislature. Since 2009, I’ve served on Sonoma County’s Maternal, Child and Adolescent Health Advisory Board and have been a policy advisor for Sonoma County’s Child Care Planning Council. 1 also serve on Santa Rosa’s Measure 0 Oversight Committee. As an AmeriCorps member in graduate school, 1 helped se- cure grant funding for afterschool programs in Sonoma County’s most underserved schools. 1 have a Master’s Degree in Public Administration and a Bachelor’s degree in History.  It is imperative that school board members make principled and responsible decisions that are in the best interests of students, teachers and our community. As a board member, these ideals will guide me in promoting quality schools and delivering the best available educational opportunities for every student.	ED SHEFFIELD EDAD: 43  Ocupacion: representante de campo de la Asamblea Estatal de California  Me postulo para la Junta Escolar porque soy un apasionado de la educacion publica y del rol fundamental que juega en la salud de nuestras comunidades. Como padre de dos, quiero participar de manera activa en su educacion al moldear las political que garanticen oportunidades para que todos los ninos se desarrollen academicamente y esten preparados para los desafios de la vida real. Nuestros estudiantes se merecen una educacion integral que abarque no solo los aspectos basicos de la lectura, el lenguaje, las matematicas y la ciencia, sino tambien los del arte, la musica y la actividad ffsica.  En mi camera profesional, servi como personal para miembros del Congreso y de la Legislatura Estatal. Desde 2009, he servido en la Junta Consultiva de la Salud Maternal, Infantil y Adolescente y he sido un asesor politico para el Concejo de Planificacion del Cuidado de los Ninos del Condado de Sonoma. Tambien sirvo en el Comite de Supervision de la Medida 0 de Santa Rosa. Como miembro de AmeriCorps en la escuela de posgrado, ayude a garantizar el financiamiento de becas para los programas postescolares en las escuelas mas marginadas del Condado de Sonoma. Tengo una maestrfa en Administration Publica y una licenciatura en Historia.  Es fundamental que los miembros de la Junta Escolar tomen decisiones responsables y ejemplares que tengan el mayor beneficio para los estudiantes, los maestros y nuestra comunidad. Como miembro de la junta, estos ideales me guiaran para promover escuelas de calidad y brindar las mejores oportunidades educativas disponibles para todos los estudiantes.

2965

VOTER’S PAMPHLET LOCAL NONPARTISAN CANDIDATES’ STATEMENTS OF QUALIFICATIONS  The following pages may not contain a complete list of candidates. A complete list of candidates appears on the Sample Ballot. Each statement is volunteered by, and (unless otherwise determined by the governing body) is printed at the expense of, the candidate.	
CITY OF SANTA ROSA HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT	DISTRITO DE ESCUELAS SECUNDARIAS DE LA CIUDAD DE SANTA ROSA
EVELYN ANDERSON  Occupation: Community volunteer, Education advocate  As the mother of two Santa Rosa City Schools (SRCS) students, 1 strongly believe that all students in SRCS deserve the best education possible to reach their full potential. While working in our schools, I’ve observed examples of powerful teaching and learning that should be the expectation in every child’s classroom. As a member of a state educational advocacy nonprofit I’ve worked for quality education for all.  I’ve spent the last twelve years volunteering on school, district, and state educational committees and boards. I’ve been honored to work alongside administrators, teachers, parents, and children as a volunteer, parent organization president, and advocate for educational excellence.  1 have a Master’s of Business Administration and gained a strong understanding of the Local Control Funding Formula (LCFF) as a member of the district’s LCFF Task Force and District Advisory Committee. As a parent leader at each of the five schools my children attended within SRCS, 1 used my management skills to align limited resources with schools’ needs. 1 understand the value of prioritizing budget items. District budget priorities must reflect the priorities of our community.  With your vote, I’ll add a parent’s voice to the school board; I’ll devote my passion, skills and energy to our schools, our children, and our community’s future.  www.electevelynanderson.com	EVELYN ANDERSON  Ocupacion: voluntaria comunitaria, defensora de la educacion  Como madre de dos estudiantes de las Escuelas de la Ciudad de Santa Rosa (Santa Rosa City Schools, SRCS), creo firmemente que todos los estudiantes de las SRCS merecen la mejor educacion posible para alcanzar su maximo potencial. Al trabajar en nuestras escuelas, he observado ejemplos de ensenanza y aprendizaje poderosos que deberian ser la expectativa en los salones de todos los ninos. Como miembro de una organizacion sin fines de lucro defensora de la educacion estatal, he trabajado para tener una educacion de calidad para todos.  Pase los ultimos doce anos como voluntaria en comites y juntas escolares del distrito y del estado. Ha sido un honor trabajar al lado de administradores, mae- stros, padres y ninos como voluntaria, presidenta de la organizacion de padres y defensora de la excelencia educativa.  Tengo una maestrfa en Administration de Empresas y obtuve conocimientos solidos de la Formula de Financiamiento de Control Local (Local Control Funding Formula, LCFF) como miembro del Grupo de Trabajo de la LCFF del distrito y del Comite Asesor del Distrito. Como i lider en cada una de las cinco escuelas a las que asistieron mis hijos dentro de las SRCS, utilice mis habilidades administrativas para alinear los limitados recursos con las necesidades de las escuelas. Comprendo el valor de priorizar elementos del presupuesto. Las prioridades presupuestarias del distrito deben reflejar las prioridades de nuestra comunidad.  Con su voto, sumare una voz de padres a la Junta Escolar; destinare mi pasion, habilidades y energfa a nuestras escuelas, nuestros ninos y al futuro de nuestra comunidad.  www.electevelynanderson.com
CITY OF SANTA ROSA HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT	DISTRITO DE ESCUELAS SECUNDARIAS DE LA CIUDAD DE SANTA ROSA
LAURA GONZALEZ  Occupation: Teacher  Public education is my passion. As such, it has been a special privilege to serve as a Santa Rosa City Schools board member these last eight years.  As a classroom teacher with over 25 years of experience in public education, and a single parent of two recent graduates from Montgomery High School, 1 have brought a fresh perspective to the board that had been lacking. 1 have used my educational experience, leadership, commitment and passion to represent all students and families, especially those without a voice. 1 have pursued programs that work, fearlessly questioned district decisions 1 didn’t agree with, all while fighting to maintain fiscal responsibility.  Our district is headed in the right direction and 1 look forward to continue working with our new superintendent. However, it is important that we always strive to do better. My understanding of budgets, best educational practices, and most importantly, of the obstacles that our students face in this day and age give me the tools to make our district better. We have obstacles to overcome, but together we can accomplish much.  1 ask for your continued support to help move us forward. Thank you.	LAURA GONZALEZ  Ocupacion: maestra  La educacion publica es mi pasion. Por esto, ha sido un privilegio especial trabajar como miembro de la Junta de Escuelas de la Ciudad de Santa Rosa durante los ultimos ocho anos.  Como maestra en un salon con mas de 25 anos de experiencia en educacion publica, y como madre soltera de dos recien graduados de la Escuela Secundaria de Montgomery, traje una perspectiva fresca que le hacia falta a la junta. He usado mi experiencia educativa, liderazgo, compromiso y pasion para representar a todos los estudiantes y las familias, especialmente a aquellos sin voz. He adoptado programas que funcionan, cuestionado sin miedo las decisiones del distrito con las que no estoy de acuerdo; todo mientras luchaba por conservar la responsabilidad fiscal.  Nuestro distrito se dirige hacia la direction adecuada y ansio seguir trabajando con nuestro nuevo superintendents. Sin embargo, es importante que siempre aspiremos a hacerlo mejor. Mi comprension de presupuestos, mejores practicas educativas y, lo mas importante, los obstaculos que nuestros estudiantes enfrentan en estos tiempos me dan las herramientas para mejorar nuestro distrito. Hay obstaculos que superar, pero juntos podemos lograr mucho.  Le pido que siga apoyandome para progresar. Gracias.

VOTER’S PAMPHLET LOCAL NONPARTISAN CANDIDATES’ STATEMENTS OF QUALIFICATIONS  The following pages may not contain a complete list of candidates. A complete list of candidates appears on the Sample Ballot. Each statement is volunteered by, and (unless otherwise determined by the governing body) is printed at the expense of, the candidate.	
CITY OF SANTA ROSA HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT	DISTRITO DE ESCUELAS SECUNDARIAS DE LA CIUDAD DE SANTA ROSA
LAURIE FONG  Occupation: Retired teacher and principal  As a lifelong educator, parent, teacher, and principal, my passion for learning, stu- dents, families, and teachers is at the heart of my life’s work. Support of student well-being and engagement, teachers, and school infrastructure is critical to prepare all students for transition into our changing economy.  As a Santa Rosa City Schools teacher at Piner and principal of Montgomery High School, 1 have successfully leveraged resources to support teaching and learning. My experience in school systems will provide our board with a depth of perspective and expertise to meet our challenges.  1 understand the necessity of balancing a complex system that engages and supports our most vulnerable students, while also providing rich opportunities for our higher performing students. My work with students, teachers/staff, families of all backgrounds, and community organizations is rooted in listening and making sound and measured decisions that support all students’ achievement.  1 am committed to building upon the solid work our District has done and dedicated to continuing service to our youth.  Together we are building a 21st century school district that strengthens our entire community.  1 appreciate your vote for our students.	LAURIE FONG  Ocupacion: maestra y directora jubilada  Como educadora de toda la vida, madre, maestra y directora, mi pasion por el aprendizaje, los estudiantes, las familias y los maestros es lo que esta en el fondo de mi vida laboral. Apoyar el bienestary la participation estudiantil, a los maestros y la infraestructura escolar es muy importante para preparar a todos los estudiantes para la transition en nuestra cambiante economfa.  Como maestra de las Escuelas de la Ciudad de Santa Rosa, en Piner, y directora de la Escuela Secundaria de Montgomery, impulse los recursos para apoyar la ensenanza y el aprendizaje. Mi experiencia en los sistemas escolares proporcionara a nuestra junta una perspectiva profunda y la experiencia para enfrentarnos a nuestros desaffos.  Entiendo la necesidad de equilibrar un sistema complejo que involucra y apoya a nuestros estudiantes mas vulnerables mientras tambien proporcionamos oportunidades enriquecedoras a nuestros estudiantes de alto rendimiento. Mi trabajo con estudiantes, maestros/personal, familias de todos los origenes, y organizaciones de la comunidad procede de escuchar y tomar decisiones prudentes y mesuradas.  Estoy comprometida a desarrollar el trabajo solido que nuestro Distrito ha logrado y estoy dedicada a seguir sirviendo a nuestra juventud.  Juntos estamos construyendo un distrito escolar del siglo XXI que fortalece a toda nuestra comunidad.  Apreciaria su voto por nuestros estudiantes.
CITY OF SANTA ROSA HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT	DISTRITO DE ESCUELAS SECUNDARIAS DE LA CIUDAD DE SANTA ROSA
CAROLINE BANUELOS  Occupation: Volunteer Manager, Math and Reading Tutor  Every student deserves an opportunity to be successful while in school and beyond. This is why 1 am running for the Santa Rosa City Schools board. As a resident of Sonoma County since 1983,1 have watched our community change and grow into the rich and at times complex landscape it is today. Thus, it is imperative that the board, acknowledge these changes and understand who our students are in order to be prepared to govern for the future.  Having served as a volunteer on both city and county boards and commissions as well as nonprofit boards, 1 will bring many acquired skills to the essential respon- sibilities of the board including working with the Superintendent, monitoring the budget and setting policy for the district. Simultaneously, ensuring that decisions are made in the best interest of students, parents, teachers, and staff; ultimately benefitting the community.  Advocating for equity for all our students, transparency in the decision making process, and working to improve student preparedness, whatever path they may choose are just some of the goals 1 will pursue with vigor as a board member.  1 respectfully ask for your vote. www.carolinebanuelos.com	CAROLINE BANUELOS  Ocupacion: administradora voluntaria, tutora de lectura y matematicas  Todos los estudiantes merecen una oportunidad de ser exitosos mientras esten en la escuela y en el futuro. Es por eso que me postulo para la Junta Escolar de la Ciudad de Santa Rosa. Como residente del Condado de Sonoma desde 1983, he visto a nuestra comunidad cambiar y crecer hacia el paisaje valioso y, algunas veces, complejo que es hoy. Por lo tanto, es fundamental que la junta reconozca estos cambios y comprenda quienes son nuestros estudiantes para que esten preparados para gobernar para el futuro.  Al haber servido coma voluntaria en las juntas y comisiones municipal y del condado, asi como en juntas sin fines de lucro, llevare muchas habilidades adquiridas a las responsabilidades esenciales de la junta, incluido el trabajo con el superintendente, la supervision del presupuesto y el establecimiento de polfticas para el distrito. De manera simultanea, garantizare que las decisiones se tomen para el mayor beneficio de los estudiantes, padres, maestros y personal; y finalmente para beneficio de la comunidad.  Defender la igualdad para todos nuestros estudiantes, la transparencia en el proceso de toma de decisiones y trabajar para mejorar la preparation de los estudiantes, cualquiera que sea el camino que hayan elegido, son solo algunos de los objetivos que perseguire con vigor como miembro de la junta.  Le pido su voto de manera respetuosa. www.carolinebanuelos.com

VOTER’S PAMPHLET LOCAL NONPARTISAN CANDIDATES’ STATEMENTS OF QUALIFICATIONS  The following pages may not contain a complete list of candidates. A complete list of candidates appears on the Sample Ballot. Each statement is volunteered by, and (unless otherwise determined by the governing body) is printed at the expense of, the candidate.	
CITY OF SANTA ROSA - CITY COUNCIL	CIUDAD DE SANTA ROSA - CONCEJO DE LA CIUDAD
ERNESTO OLIVARES AGE: 58  Occupation: Councilmember/Director, California Cities Violence Prevention Network  1 am committed to the total well-being of all our citizens. Currently, 1 represent you on Santa Rosa Downtown Subcommittee, Sonoma County Health Action Committee, City Council Subcommittee on Homeless Policies, Santa Rosa Violence Pre- vention Partnership, California League of Cities Public Safety Committee and City Council Subcommittee on Medical Marijuana.  During my term as your Mayor, 1 established the Mayor’s Economic Competitive- ness Task Force and Mayor’s Pension Reform Task Force. As a result, we brought thousands of jobs to Santa Rosa and passed the most meaningful pension reform for the first time in Santa Rosa’s history. The Santa Rosa Violence Prevention Part- nership (formally Mayor’s Gang Prevention Task Force) continues to be a national model for crime prevention and youth development.  For our community, 1 serve on Luther Burbank Center for the Arts Board of Directors, Elsie Allen High School Foundation, and Boys and Girls Club of Central Sonoma County Advisory Board.  My record shows 1 am a strong proponent of transparency and openness in governing our city. 1 take pride in the fact that 1 engage stakeholders, work to find creative solutions to difficult issues, and implement those solutions for significant changes. Please be assured 1 will continue to address critical issues.  Working together, we will continue to make Santa Rosa the place we are proud to call our home.  1 respectfully ask for your vote.  Visit www.olivaresforsantarosa.com	ERNESTO OLIVARES EDAD: 58  Ocupacion: miembrodelConcejo/director, ReddePrevenciondela ViolenciaenlasCiudadesdeCalifornia  Estoy comprometido con el bienestar total de todos nuestros ciudadanos. Actualmente lo represento en el Subcomite del Centro de Santa Rosa, el Comite de Accion por la Salud del Condado de Sonoma, el Subcomite del Concejo Munici- pal sobre Polfticas para los Indigentes, la Asociacion de Prevencion de la Violencia en Santa Rosa, el Comite de Seguridad de la Liga de Ciudades de California y el Subcomite del Concejo Municipal sobre la Marihuana Medicinal.  Durante mi periodo como su Alcalde, establecf la Fuerza de Trabajo para la Competitividad Economica del Alcalde y la Fuerza de Trabajo para la Reforma de Pensiones del Alcalde. Como resultado, trajimos miles de trabajos a Santa Rosa y pasamos la reforma de pensiones mas significativa por primera vez en la historia de Santa Rosa. La Asociacion de Prevencion de la Violencia en Santa Rosa (formalmente la Fuerza de Trabajo de Prevencion de Pandillas del Alcalde) sigue siendo un modelo nacional de prevencion del crimen y desarrollo de la juventud.  Para nuestra comunidad, sirvo en la Junta Directiva del Centro para las Artes Luther Burbank, la Fundacion de la Preparatoria Elsie Allen y la Junta Asesora del Club para Ninos y Ninas del Centro del Condado de Sonoma.  Mi historial muestra que soy un fuerte partidario de la transparencia y la apertura para gobernar nuestra ciudad. Me siento orgulloso del hecho de que comprometo a las partes interesadas, trabajo para encontrar soluciones creativas a problemas dificiles y las implemento para que haya cambios significativos. Por favor, esten seguros de que seguire abordando los problemas crfticos.  Si trabajamos juntos, seguiremos haciendo de Santa Rosa el lugar del cual nos enorgullecemos de llamar hogar.  Les pido respetuosamente su voto.  Visitewww.olivaresforsantarosa.com
CITY OF SANTA ROSA - CITY COUNCIL	CIUDAD DE SANTA ROSA - CONCEJO DE LA CIUDAD
CHRIS ROGERS  Occupation: Green Energy Policy Manager  Santa Rosa is an amazing place and I’ve been fortunate to serve this community for the last decade. I’ve served on eight local commissions, including the Community Advisory Board, the Task Force for the Homeless, and the Area Agency on Aging.  1 work for a Santa Rosa based clean energy company, where 1 focus on making green energy affordable for families and businesses.  1 understand the critical issues we face and care deeply about our community - it is where 1 was born and where I’ll raise my family.  Santa Rosa should be a place where planning for our future means investing in public transit and nearby housing that’s affordable for everyone; where anyone with a good idea can start a small business and build a life for their family; and where everyone is working together to meet our greatest challenges.  1 care more about good policy than petty politics, and 1 have a long history of delivering for Santa Rosa, I’m honored to have the endorsement of Senator McGuire, Assemblymember Wood, Supervisors Gorin and Gore, and 1 would be honored to have your support as well.  Visit www.VoteRoaers.com or call me directlv at (707) 387-0015. Let’s work to- gether to build a more livable Santa Rosa.	CHRIS ROGERS  Ocupacion: gerente de polfticas de energfa verde  Santa Rosa es un lugar asombroso y he sido afortunado de servir a esta comunidad durante la ultima decada. He servido en ocho comisiones locales, incluyendo la Junta de Asesorfa de la Comunidad, la Fuerza de Trabajo para los Indigentes y la Agenda Local sobre el Envejecimiento.  Trabajo para una empresa de energfa limpia con base en Santa Rosa, donde me enfoco en hacer que la energfa verde sea accesible para las familias y las empresas.  Entiendo los problemas crfticos a los que nos enfrentamos y me preocupo por nuestra comunidad; es donde nacf y donde criare a mi familia.  Santa Rosa deberfa ser un lugar en el que planear nuestro futuro signifique invertir en el transporte publico y en viviendas cercanas accesibles para todos; en donde cualquiera que tenga una buena idea pueda empezar un pequeno negocio y construir una vida para su familia; y donde todos trabajen juntos para alcanzar nuestros mayores retos.  Me importan mas las buenas polfticas que la polftica bonita, y tengo un largo historial de dar resultados a Santa Rosa. Es un honor para mf tener el respaldo del Senador McGuire, del Miembro de la Asamblea Wood, de los Supervisors Gorin y Gore, y serfa un honor tener el apoyo de usted tambien.  Visite www.VoteRoaers.com o llame directamente al (707) 387-0015. Trabaiemos juntos para construir juntos una Santa Rosa mas habitable.

49-37

5050

VOTER’S PAMPHLET LOCAL NONPARTISAN CANDIDATES’ STATEMENTS OF QUALIFICATIONS  The following pages may not contain a complete list of candidates. A complete list of candidates appears on the Sample Ballot. Each statement is volunteered by, and (unless otherwise determined by the governing body) is printed at the expense of, the candidate.	
CITY OF SANTA ROSA - CITY COUNCIL	
BRANDI ASKER AGE: 35  Occupation: District Manager  1 am running for Santa Rosa City Council so 1 can serve my community, bring focus to the issues that matter most, and progress our city in a way that holds true to our roots. Santa Rosa is in a period of rapid growth, and 1 will use my expertise in business and my commitment to serving people to ensure our growth is on pace with our potential.  I’ve lived in Santa Rosa for 17 years, currently working as a District Manager for Starbucks Coffee in Santa Rosa. Giving back to our community is a priority of mine, and 1 have developed strong partnerships with local non-profits, including Social Advocates for Youth and Redwood Empire Food Bank. My professional and volunteer experience have prepared me to work proactively and diligently, and to be a dynamic, collaborative member of our City Council.  1 represent women and mothers, and 1 care about empowering minorities. 1 am dedicated to hearing all voices, and adopting plans to create opportunity for all. For now, 1 am asking for your support and your vote. Once elected, 1 will be there to serve on your behalf.  Thank You!	
CITY OF SANTA ROSA - CITY COUNCIL	CIUDAD DE SANTA ROSA - CONCEJO DE LA CIUDAD
JULIE COMBS AGE: 60  Occupation: City Councilwoman, Businesswoman  1 ran for City Council four years ago to get things done, and we have.  With our City facing twin crises of housing and homelessness, 1 championed “Housing for All” policies that provide tenant protections, plus safe sleeping places for homeless.  1 led relief efforts for renters facing skyrocketing rents and unwarranted evictions, and improved our permitting process to stimulate new construction of affordable housing.  Streetlights are back on, and 1 pushed for an additional $3 million in city road improvements. We’ve increased funding for park safety, maintenance and graffiti abatement.  As a mother and small business owner, 1 understand the challenges our families and local businesses face. I’ve worked with business leaders to support local economic growth and create good paying jobs to keep families here in Santa Rosa.  We’ve turned the page at City Hall, getting along better on the council, and getting things done in the process. Yet there’s more to do.  1 ask for your vote so we can continue to make life better for all Santa Rosans, with housing we can afford, safe neighborhoods, improved city services, addressing long-term pension issues and an honest, balanced budget.  Proudly endorsed by Sierra Club, Sonoma County Housing Advocacy Group, Concerned Citizens for Santa Rosa, and Sonoma County Conservation Action.  www.CombsForCouncil .com	JULIE COMBS EDAD: 60  Ocupacion: concejal municipal, empresaria  Hace cuatro anos me postule para el Concejo Municipal para tomar acciones, y lo hemos hecho.  Cuando nuestra ciudad se enfrentaba a la doble crisis de la vivienda y de la indigencia, defend! las politicas “Viviendas para todos”, las cuales proporcionan protecciones al arrendatario y lugares seguros para que los indigentes duerman.  Guie los esfuerzos de socorro para quienes rentan y se enfrentan a las rentas de precios elevados y a los desalojos injustificados, y mejore nuestro proceso de permisos para estimular la construction nueva de viviendas accesibles.  La iluminacion publica esta de vuelta, y presione para que se invirtieran $3 millones en mejorar las calles de la ciudad. Hemos aumentado los fondos para la seguridad y el mantenimiento de los parques, y la elimination de los grafitis.  Como madre y propietaria de una pequena empresa, entiendo los retos a los que se enfrentan las familias y los negocios locales. He trabajado con Ifderes empresariales para apoyar el crecimiento de la economia local y crear trabajos bien pagados para que las familias permanezcan aqu! en Santa Rosa.  Le hemos dado vuelta a la pagina en el Ayuntamiento. Nos llevamos mejor en el concejo y alcanzamos objetivos en el proceso. Aun hay mas por hacer.  Pido su voto para poder seguir haciendo que la vida sea mejor para todos los ciudadanos de Santa Rosa, con viviendas que podamos adquirir, vecindarios seguros, mejores servicios en la ciudad, para abordar los problemas de pensiones a largo plazo y tener un presupuesto honesto y equilibrado.  Estoy orgullosa de que me respalden Sierra Club, el Grupo de Defensa de Viviendas del Condado de Sonoma, Ciudadanos Preocupados de Santa Rosa y la Action de Conservation del Condado de Sonoma.  www.CombsForCouncil.com

VOTER’S PAMPHLET LOCAL NONPARTISAN CANDIDATES’ STATEMENTS OF QUALIFICATIONS  The following pages may not contain a complete list of candidates. A complete list of candidates appears on the Sample Ballot. Each statement is volunteered by, and (unless otherwise determined by the governing body) is printed at the expense of, the candidate.	
CITY OF SANTA ROSA - CITY COUNCIL	CIUDAD DE SANTA ROSA - CONCEJO DE LA CIUDAD
DON TAYLOR AGE: 57  Occupation: Businessman, President Railroad Square Association  Like you, 1 believe free parking is essential for a thriving downtown. Also, it is essential we fix the potholes and upgrade our streets.  My understanding of these three issues is based upon being a successful businessman for over 30 years. During the recession, 1 opened a second Omelette Express in Sonoma County. 1 was able to establish the new business and survive the financial crisis of the 2007 Recession placed on both businesses. 1 would like to put my business talents to work on the City Council.  The small businesses of Santa Rosa need a voice on the City Council. It is time busi- ness was properly represent when determining the future of our city. We must find strong businesslike solutions to homelessness, creating more job and workforce housing.  We have the best police and fire departments anywhere and must continue to fund them to ensure we maintain our level of public safety and response times.  Like you, 1 want Free Parking downtown and better streets and roads. Please vote for me, Don Taylor, for City Council and 1 will work hard to get the job done. Thank you.  Visit mv website, www.electdontavlor.com	DON TAYLOR EDAD: 57  Ocupacion: empresario, presidente de la Asociacion Railroad Square  Al igual que ustedes, creo que el estacionamiento gratuito es esencial para tener un centra prospero. Asimismo, es esencial que arreglemos los baches y que mejoremos nuestras calles.  Mi comprension de estos tres problemas se basa en ser un empresario exitoso por mas de 30 anos. Durante la recesion, abri un segundo Omelette Express en el Condado de Sonoma. Pude establecer el nuevo negocio y sobrevivir a la crisis financiers de 2007. La recesion estuvo presente en ambos negocios. Quisiera poner mi talento en los negocios a trabajar en el Concejo Municipal.  Las pequenas empresas de Santa Rosa necesitan una voz en el Concejo Munici- pal. Es hora de que los negocios esten representados de manera adecuada cuando se determine el futuro de nuestra ciudad. Debemos encontrar fuertes soluciones eficientes a la indigencia, creando mas trabajos y viviendas para los trabajadores.  Tenemos los mejores departamentos de policia y bomberos, y debemos seguir financiandolos para asegurarnos de mantener el nivel de tiempos de respuesta de seguridad publics.  Como ustedes, quiero que el estacionamiento en el centra sea gratuito y tener mejores calles y carreteras. Por favor, vote por mi, Don Taylor, para estar en el Concejo Municipal y trabajare dura para que el trabajo se haga. Gracias.  Visite mi sitio web, www.electdontavlor.com
CITY OF SANTA ROSA - CITY COUNCIL	CIUDAD DE SANTA ROSA - CONCEJO DE LA CIUDAD
JACK TIBBETTS  Occupation: Renewable Energy Consultant  Santa Rosa has reached a critical point. Housing costs and increasing inequality are preventing families from building a future here. We need a Councilmember who can bring people together to solve these problems and make our city a model for widespread affordability and sustainability.  Currently, 1 sit on the Santa Rosa Board of Public Utilities, and I’ve spent my entire life getting things done for our community. 1 worked with the Sonoma County Economic Development Board to support small business creation, new jobs, and with the Sonoma County Board of Supervisors to provide shelter for the homeless. 1 raised funds for Roseland Public Library and organized the Roseland Cup Soccer Tournament.  All this was accomplished by setting a bold vision and bringing diverse groups together toward a common purpose. My experience and deep roots in the community will give me unique insight on City Council to solve problems. 1 will work to: increase the number of good paying jobs, fix our streets, treat mental illness and substance abuse, control the rising cost of living, and preserve open space.  Together, we’ve already achieved much for Santa Rosa, but there’s more to do. I’ve been endorsed by over one hundred elected officials and community leaders, and 1 hope you’ll select me as one of your choices for Santa Rosa City Council.  Website -www.Jack.vote 1 Facebook-FB.com/voteforiacktibbetts	JACK TIBBETTS  Ocupacion: consultor de energia renovable  Santa Rosa ha alcanzado un punto crftico. Los costos de la vivienda y la creciente desigualdad estan impidiendo que las familias construyan un futuro aquL Necesitamos un Miembro del Concejo que pueda unir a la gente para resolver estos problemas y hacer de nuestra ciudad un modelo de amplia accesibilidad y sostenibilidad.  Actualmente ocupo un lugar en la Junta de Servicios Publicos de Santa Rosa y he pasado toda mi vida haciendo cosas para nuestra comunidad. Trabaje con la Junta de Desarrollo Economico del Condado de Sonoma para apoyar la creacion de pequenas empresas, trabajos nuevos, y con la Junta de Supervisores del Condado de Sonoma para brindar refugio a los indigentes. Reuni fondos para la Biblioteca Publica de Roseland y organice el Torneo de Futbol Soccer de la Copa de Roseland.  Todo esto se logro estableciendo una vision audaz y reuniendo diversos grupos dirigidos a un objetivo en comun. Mi experiencia y profundas raices en la comunidad me daran una introspectiva unica en el Concejo Municipal para re- solver problemas. Trabajare para aumentar el numero de trabajos bien pagados, arreglar nuestras calles, tratar las enfermedades mentales y el consumo de drogas, controlar los crecientes costos de la vida, y preservar los espacios abiertos.  Juntos ya hemos logrado mucho para Santa Rosa, pero hay mas por hacer. He sido apoyado por mas de cien funcionarios electos y lideres comunitarios, y espero que me elija como una de sus opciones para el Concejo Municipal de Santa Rosa.  Sitio web -www.Jack.vote 1 Facebook - FB.com/voteforiacktibbetts

5050

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

COUNTY OF SONOMA
MEASURE K

In order to preserve rural open space and agricultural land,

K maintain community identities, and prevent sprawl, shall
the “Community Separators Protection Ordinance” be
adopted to amend the Sonoma County General Plan to
require voter approval of changes to the General Plan that
increase the allowed density or intensity of development within
Community Separators until December 31, 2036, and to repeal
Ordinance 5145R?

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE K

Measure K asks voters whether the County should extend and expand certain
protections in the Sonoma County General Plan to maintain community identities,
preserve rural open space and agricultural lands, and prevent sprawl for a period of
twenty years.

California has long-established public policies favoring the preservation of open
space, the continuation of agriculture and the discouragement of urban sprawl.

Both the 1989 and 2020 Sonoma County General Plans implemented these policies
with a “city centered” growth policy for the County’s physical development. The
“city centered” growth plan features “community separators.” Community separators
are open space and agricultural lands located around cities that maintain
community identities, prevent sprawl, protection natural resources, provide visual
separation between cities and unincorporated communities, and are zoned for low
density and low intensity uses.

In 1990 the County’s voters approved measures for the purchase of developments
rights to preserve open space and agriculture and to support the “city centered”
growth plan for the County’s physical development.

In 1993 the County’s Local Agency Formation Commission, a government agency
that controls changes in city and district boundaries, adopted a policy of not approv-
ing city annexations of lands within community separators.

All of the County’s nine incorporated cities have voluntarily limited annexations by
establishing voter approved urban growth boundaries. Annexations outside of the
urban growth boundaries may only occur in limited situations.

In 1996, Sonoma County voters simultaneously approved Ordinance 5003R requiring
voter approval of certain revisions of or amendments to the boundaries of land use
regulations applicable to community separators created by the 1989 General Plan.
Two years later, Sonoma County voters approved Ordinance 5145R requiring
voter approval of any increase in the allowed density or intensity of land uses al-
lowed within the expanded Petaluma/Novato Community Separator.

The protections established by Ordinances 5003R and 5145 R expire at the end of
2016 and 2018, respectively. Measure K would combine those protections into a
single ordinance. Measure K would continue the County’s anti-urban sprawl policy
by requiring prior County voter approval to: (ii) increase the land use designations,
allowable densities, or development intensities within Community Separators
and (ii) expand the boundaries of Urban Service Areas in unincorporated areas
to include land located within community separators.

Measure K will become effective only if approved by a majority of voters voting on
the measure. A “yes” vote on Measure K will authorize the County to adopt the
Community Separators Protection Ordinance set forth in the voter pamphlet. If ap-
proved, Measure K would take effect on January 1,2017, and would automatically
terminate on December 31,2036, and could only be repealed or changed during
that twenty year period by another county-wide election.

A “no” vote on Measure K means that Ordinance 5003R and Ordinance 2145R
would expire at the end of 2016 and 2018 as scheduled and the protections would
no longer be in place.

CONT. NEXT COLUMN

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE K, CONT.

The Board of Supervisors unanimously voted to place Measure K on the ballot. The
full text of Measure K follows this analysis.

BRUCE D. GOLDSTEIN
County Counsel

By: sl Robert Pittman

Chief Deputy County Counsel

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE K

Your yes vote on Measure K will renew longstanding voter protections for Sonoma
County’s community separators—the rural open space and farm lands surround-
ing the county’s cities and towns.

Measure K will cost the taxpayers absolutely nothing to protect and preserve our
beautiful county for the next generation. With a simple majority vote, Measure K will
renew these voter protections for county community separators for another 20
years. Two decades ago, Sonoma County residents voted in protections for
community separators with a 70 percent supermajority.

Community separators complement the cities’ urban growth boundaries by safe-
guarding adjacent county open space and working farm lands.

Measure K sustains the viability of family farms by maintaining agricultural and ex-
isting land use zoning. It prevents conversion of these lands to shopping centers,
strip malls and resort hotels. Measure K will stop unwanted urban sprawl and en-
sure that community separators are kept intact.

Measure K preserves waterways, drinking water, groundwater and recharge areas,
wildlife corridors, hillsides, and woodlands. It also offers clean air, water, and climate
resiliency.

Sonoma County has avoided the mistakes made by some Bay Area counties that
have allowed for urban sprawl to spread into valuable open space and farm lands.
Never again will they enjoy the important separation between cities, sense of com-
munity or scenic views. Here we can continue to avoid those same mistakes by
voting Yes on Measure K, the Community Separators Protection Ordinance.

Measure K is endorsed by conservation groups, farmers, housing advocates,
developers and businesses.

Measure K is one of the most important greenbelt policy measures in Sonoma
County in decades.

Please join us in voting Yes on Measure K.

Learn more at www.keepcommunitvseparators.com
www.facebook.com/communityseparators/

si Mike Wright	si	Katie	Jackson

Owner, Wright Contracting	VP	Sustainability,	Jackson Family Wines

SONOMA COUNTY CONSERVATION ACTION SONOMA COUNTY FARM BUREAU
sl Janis Watkins, Secretary of Board si Kim Vail, Executive Director

GREENBELT ALLIANCE

sl Jake MacKenzie, Chair, Public Policy Committee

NO ARGUMENT WAS SUBMITTED AGAINST MEASURE K

49-539

9453

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE K
EXHIBIT “A”

Ordinance No._________R

An Ordinance Of The County Of Sonoma, State Of California, Amending The
Sonoma County General Plan To Require Voter Approval Of Amendments To
The Boundaries Of Urban Service Areas Of Unincorporated Communities To
Include Lands Within Community Separators, And Amendments To The
Boundaries Of Community Separators Or The Land Use Designations Or
Densities Of Lands Within Community Separators, Until December 31,2036,
And Repealing Ordinance 5145R.

The People of the County of Sonoma ordain as follows:

Section 1. Title.

This ordinance shall be known and may be cited as the Community Separators
Protection Ordinance.

Section 2. Statement of Purpose.

A.	Community Separators are rural open space and agricultural land
around cities and unincorporated communities in Sonoma County that maintain
community identities, prevent sprawl, protect natural resources, and provide visual
separation between cities and unincorporated communities. Community Separators
are designated on the maps in the Open Space and Resource Conservation
Element of the Sonoma County General Plan.

B.	Twenty years ago, the voters of Sonoma County approved Ordinance
5003R requiring voter approval of certain revisions of or amendments to the bound-
aries of or land use regulations applicable to Community Separators. Eighteen
years ago, the voters of Sonoma County approved Ordinance 5145R requiring
voter approval of any increase in the allowed density or intensity of land uses al-
lowed within the expanded Petaluma/Novato Community Separator, specifying
certain highway design criteria, and providing for bicycle lanes. Ordinance 5003R
and its voter approval protections will expire at the end of 2016, and Ordinance
5145R and its voter approval protections will expire at the end of 2018. The pur-
pose of this ordinance is to renew and strengthen the voter approval protections of
Ordinances 5003R and 5145R, and to apply those protections to all Community
Separators designated in the Sonoma County General Plan. This ordinance is
intended to continue to give a higher level of assurance that Community Separators
designated in the Sonoma County General Plan will be maintained and that their
land use designations will not be changed to increase the allowed density or inten-
sity of development. This ordinance is further intended to encourage the County’s
cities to establish and maintain voter-approved urban growth boundaries that do
not encroach into Community Separators.

C.	Community Separators implement a long-standing policy of the
Sonoma County General Plan that the physical development of the County should
be city-centered. The city-centered growth policy further implements several state
level policies, including:

(1)	Article XIII, section 8 of the California Constitution
encouraging the “conservation, preservation and continued existence of open space
lands” for “recreation, enjoyment of scenic beauty, use or conservation of natural
resources, or production of food or fiber.”

(2)	Articles XIIIA and XIIIB of the California Constitution limiting lo-
cal government tax revenues and spending and thereby encouraging the efficient
physical development of communities that will reduce expenditures for public
safety, streets, utilities, and other publicly financed, operated and maintained
improvements.

(3)	The Planning and Zoning Law (Government Code section
65562) assuring “that cities and counties recognize that open-space land is a limited
and valuable resource which must be conserved wherever possible” and that they
will “prepare and carry out open-space plans.”

(4)	The Cortese-Knox-Hertzberg Local Government Reorganization
Act of 2000 (Government Code section 56000 et seq.) discouraging annexations

and other changes in organization that result in urban sprawl and its implementa-
tion in Sonoma County by Resolution No. 2119, dated May 7,1992, of the Sonoma
County Local Agency Formation Commission.

Section 3. Addition of General Plan Policy LU-3e.

This ordinance hereby adds, and adopts until December 31, 2036, Policy
LU-3e of the Land Use Element of Sonoma County General Plan 2020 adopted
September 23,2008, as amended through August 2,2016, as indicated below (text
to be added is shown in bold italics).

Policy LU-3e: Until December 31,2036, the boundaries of Urban Service
Areas of unincorporated communities as shown on the Land Use Maps
shall not be amended to include lands within Community Separators as
shown on the Open Space Maps unless such amendment is approved
by the voters of Sonoma County.

For the purposes of this policy, approval by the voters of Sonoma
County shall be accomplished when a general plan amendment is
placed on the ballot through any procedure provided for in the Elections
Code, and a majority of the voters vote in favor of it. The Board of
Supervisors may adopt a general plan amendment prior to securing
the approval of the voters of Sonoma County; provided, however, that
whenever the Board of Supervisors adopts an amendment requiring
approval of the voters of Sonoma County pursuant to the provisions of
this policy, the Board action shall have no effect until after such a vote
is held and a majority of the voters vote in favor of it. The Board of
Supervisors shall follow the provisions of the Elections Code in all
matters pertaining to such an election.

Section 4. Amendment of General Plan Policy OSRC-lk.

This ordinance hereby amends, and readopts as amended until December
31,2036, Policy OSRC-1 k of the Open Space and Resource Conservation Element
of Sonoma County General Plan 2020 adopted September 23,2008, as amended
through August 2,2016, as indicated below (text to be added is shown in bold italics,
text to be deleted is shown in strikethrough):

Policy OSRC-1 k: Until tho expiration of Ordinance No. 5145R (2018), tho
General Plan land use regulations for the lands within the Petaluma/Novato
Community Separator shall not be changed so as to increase either the al-
lowed intensity or density of development by changing tho land use dosig
nations in Figure LU 2h of the Land Use Element without the prior approval
of the voters of Sonoma County December 31, 2036, the boundaries of
Community Separators as shown on the Open Space Maps and the
land use designations and densities of lands within Community
Separators as shown on the Land Use Maps shall not be amended
unless such amendment is approved by the voters of Sonoma County,
except that the following types of amendments may be approved by
the Board of Supervisors pursuant to its usual procedures and with-
out the approval of the voters of Sonoma County:

(1)	An amendment designating additional lands as Community
Separator.

(2)	An amendment reducing the allowed density or intensity of de-
velopment within a Community Separator.

(3)	An amendment both adding and removing lands from a Commu-
nity Separator, where there is no net loss in land area within the
Community Separator.

(4)	An amendment correcting a mapping error, where lands that do
not meet the designation criteria for Community Separators have
been inadvertently included within a Community Separator.

For the purposes of this policy, approval by the voters of Sonoma
County shall be accomplished when a general plan amendment is
placed on the ballot through any procedure provided for in the Elections

CONT. NEXT PAGE

49-540

9453

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE K, CONT.

Code, and a majority of the voters vote in favor of it. The Board of
Supervisors may adopt a general plan amendment prior to securing
the approval of the voters of Sonoma County; provided, however, that
whenever the Board of Supervisors adopts an amendment requiring
approval of the voters of Sonoma County pursuant to the provisions of
this policy, the Board action shall have no effect until after such a vote
is held and a majority of the voters vote in favor of it The Board of
Supervisors shall follow the provisions of the Elections Code in all
matters pertaining to such an election.

Section 5. Applicability.

The provisions of Sections 3 and 4 of this ordinance shall apply to all Community
Separators shown on the Open Space Maps of the Sonoma County General Plan
on the effective date of this ordinance, and to any additional lands designated as
Community Separator during the term of this ordinance.

Section 6. Implementation.

A.	Upon the effective date of this ordinance, the provisions of Section 3
of this ordinance are hereby inserted into the Land Use Element of the Sonoma
County General Plan and the provisions of Section 4 of this ordinance are hereby
inserted into the Open Space and Resource Conservation Element of the Sonoma
County General Plan, as amendments thereto. At such time as these General Plan
amendments are inserted in the Sonoma County General Plan, any provisions of
the Sonoma County Zoning Ordinance, as reflected in the ordinance itself or in the
Sonoma County Zoning Database, that are inconsistent with these General Plan
amendments shall not be enforced.

B.	The Sonoma County General Plan, including the provisions added or
amended and readopted by this ordinance, may be reorganized, and individual
provisions may be renumbered or reordered, in the course of ongoing
amendments or updates of the Sonoma County General Plan in accordance with
the requirements of State law; provided, however, that the substance of Policy
LU-3e, as added by this ordinance, and Policy OSRC-lk, as amended and
readopted by this ordinance, shall continue to be included in the Sonoma County
General Plan until December 31,2036, unless earlier repealed or amended by the
voters of Sonoma County.

C.	All County plans, policies, ordinances, rules, and regulations constituting
legislative acts shall be amended as necessary as soon as possible and in the time
and manner required by any applicable State law to ensure consistency between
those policies and the provisions adopted in this ordinance.

D.	Upon the date of insertion of the provisions of Sections 3 and 4 of this
ordinance into the Sonoma County General Plan, all General Plan amendments,
rezonings, specific plans, tentative subdivision maps, parcel maps, conditional use
permits, building permits, or other ministerial or discretionary entitlements for use
not yet approved or issued shall not be approved or issued unless consistent with
the policies and provisions of this ordinance.

Section 7. Severability and Interpretation.

This ordinance shall be interpreted so as to be consistent with all federal and
state laws, rules, and regulations. If any section, subsection, paragraph, sub-
paragraph, sentence, clause, phrase, part, or portion of this ordinance is held to be
invalid or unconstitutional by a final judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction,
such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this ordinance.
The voters hereby declare that this ordinance, and each section, subsection, para-
graph, subparagraph, sentence, clause, phrase, part, or portion thereof would
have been adopted or passed even if one or more sections, subsections, para-
graphs, subparagraphs, sentences, clauses, phrases, parts, or portions are declared
invalid or unconstitutional. If any provision of this ordinance is held invalid as applied
to any person or circumstance, such invalidity shall not affect any application of this
ordinance that can be given effect without the invalid application. This ordinance
shall be broadly construed in order to achieve the purposes stated in this ordinance.
It is the intent of the voters that the provisions of this ordinance shall be interpreted

by the County in a manner that facilitates the protection of lands within Community
Separators.

Section 8. Amendment or Repeal.

This ordinance may be amended or repealed only by the voters of Sonoma County.

Section 9. Repeal of Ordinance 5145R.

Ordinance 5145R shall be repealed on the effective date of this ordinance.

Section 10. Effective Date.

This ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and after January 1,2017.

Section 11. Expiration.

This ordinance shall be of no further force or effect after December 31,2036.

APPROVED BY THE FOLLOWING VOTE OF THE VOTERS OF SONOMA
COUNTY AT THE GENERAL ELECTION HELD ON NOVEMBER 8, 2016.

YES________________

NO_________________

Chair, Board of Supervisors
County of Sonoma

Attest:

Veronica A. Ferguson,

Clerk of the Board of Supervisors

By:_______________________________

Chief Deputy Clerk of the Board

CONT. NEXT PAGE

49-541

9453

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE K, CONT.

County of Sonoma Community Separators
Cloverdale/Healdsburg

County of Sonoma

Permit and Resource Management Department

V/A Community Separator -------US Federal Highway	2 5 5 0	Ventura Avenue. Santa Rosa. Cali Torn ia 9MQ3

I I City Limit	—	State	Highway	£""«»	w

----Main Arterial Street

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE K, CONT.

County of Sonoma Community Separators
Windsor/Healdsburg

County of Sonoma

Permit and Resource Management Department

V/A Community Separator — US Federal Highway	2390 Ventura Avenue. Santa Ron, Cali fornia 99103

I I City Limit	-----State Highway	^	w

-----Main Arterial Street

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE K, CONT.

49-544

9453

County of Sonoma Community Separators
Northeast Santa Rosa

\//A Community Separator
□ City Limit

US Federal Highway
State Highway
Main Arterial Street

County of Sonoma
Permit and Resource Mnnagement Department

2550 Ventura Avenue. Sant a Rosa. Cali Tornia 95105

Sir

County of Sonoma Community Separators
Santa Rosa/Sebastopol

[//A Community Separator — US Federal Highway
I I City Limit	—	State	Highway

----Main Arterial Street

County of Sonoma
Permit and Resource Management Department

2530 Ventura Avenue. Santa Rosa. Cali fornit 95403

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE K, CONT.

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE K, CONT.

Petaluma/Rohnert Park & Rohnert Park/Santa Rosa

Community Separator	— US Federal Highway

Petaluma/Rohnert Park	— State Highway

Rohnert Park/Santa Rosa ----Main Arterial Street

□ City Limit

County of Sonoma

Permit and Resource Management Department

2550 Vcnluri Avtnur, Sinli Ron. Cilifornii 95403

permit

Bennett Valley $

Sonoma Mountai

City of
Sonoma

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE K, CONT.

City of
Santa Rosa

Miles

1:80,000

County of Sonoma Community Separators
Glen Ellen/Agua Caliente

\//A Community Separator
CD City Limit

US Federal Highway
State Highway
Main Arterial Street

County of Sonoma
Permit and Resource Management Depaitment

2550 Ventura Avenue. Sant a Rosa. Cali fornia 95405

Jir

County of Sonoma Community Separators
Sonoma

[//'✓I Community Separator
City Limit

US Federal Highway
State Highway
Main Arterial Street

County of Sonoma
Permit and Resource Mnnagement Department

2550 Ventura Avenue. Sant a Rosa. Cali Tornia 95105

Sir

County of Sonoma Community Separators
Petaluma/Novato

County of Sonoma

f . . .	Permit and Resource Management Department

v/a Community Separator -------US Federal Highway	2390	Ventura	Avenue.	Santa Rosa. Cali fornia 95409

I I City Limit	 State	Highway	®

----Main Arterial Street

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

COUNTY OF SONOMA
MEASURE L

SONOMA COUNTY TOURIST TAX: To address the

L impacts of tourists by investing in roads, emergency
response, workforce housing for families and veterans,
water quality protection, and other County services, shall
Sonoma County increase the transient occupancy tax from 9% to
12%, until repealed, and paid only by guests staying overnight at
lodging facilities within the unincorporated area, in line with many
neighboring cities and counties, providing $4 million annually to
local County services, subject to annual audits?

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE L

Measure L asks voters whether the County should increase its transient
occupancy tax which is assessed on persons occupying lodging for a period of
thirty consecutive days or less. The tax applies to various types of lodging, including
vacation rentals, hotels, motels, recreational vehicle parks, and campgrounds. The
tax is collected by the lodging operator and remitted to the Sonoma County Tax
Collector.

For over two decades, the transient occupancy tax rate in the unincorporated area
of Sonoma County has been nine percent, or nine cents on each dollar of the rate
charged. If approved, this measure will amend the current transient occupancy tax
ordinance to increase the transient occupancy tax rate in the unincorporated area
of Sonoma County to twelve percent, or twelve cents on each dollar of the rate
charged.

The transient occupancy tax is a general tax. Revenues from the transient occupancy
tax rate increase may be used for general governmental purposes, including those
to offset the impacts of tourists, road maintenance, emergency response services,
fire safety, workforce housing for families and veterans, water quality protection,
and other County services. In the past, approximately 75 percent of the amount
collected has been appropriated under the guidelines of the County Advertising
and Promotions Program.

State law permits a county to levy a tax on guests occupying temporary lodging
located in the unincorporated area of the county. This measure would increase the
transient occupancy tax rate only as to lodging in the unincorporated area of
Sonoma County. The measure would not change the transient occupancy tax rate
for lodging located within incorporated cities. Transient occupancy rates currently
applicable in the cities of Sonoma County vary from nine to twelve percent.

The ordinance increasing the transient occupancy tax rate from nine to twelve
percent will become effective only if approved by a majority of those voting on the
measure.

A “yes” vote on Measure L will authorize the County to increase the transient occu-
pancy tax by three-percent increase as described above, and the new tax rate
would take effect on January 1,2017.

A “no” vote will not increase the tax rate, and the County will continue to collect the
transient occupancy tax at its current rate.

The Sonoma County Board of Supervisors unanimously approved the ordinance to
increase the existing transient occupancy tax and voted to place Measure L on the
ballot for voter approval. The full text of Measure L follows this analysis.

BRUCE D. GOLDSTEIN
County Counsel

By: si Robert Pittman

Chief Deputy County Counsel

COUNTY AUDITOR’S FISCAL IMPACT STATEMENT - MEASURE L

This measure would increase the Transient Occupancy Tax (TOT) Rate from 9
percent to 12 percent within the unincorporated areas of the County.

Transient Occupancy Tax is a charge added to the billing for lodging at a motel,
hotel, bed and breakfast, or other lodging facility for guests staying fewer than 30
consecutive nights. Currently, the lodging billing includes a charge of 9%, or $9 on
a $100 room rate. This measure would increase the charge to 12%, or $12 on a
$100 room rate.

This proposed 3% rate increase will generate approximately $4.8 million in ad-
ditional annual revenues. This revenue increase could fluctuate depending on the
lodging occupancy, room rates, and/or the number of lodging facilities available in
the unincorporated areas of the County.

Through the annual budget process and public hearings required by State law,
these increased revenues would be budgeted for general governmental expenditures.
Per the Sonoma County Board of Supervisors’ Advertising and Promotions Policy,
75% of TOT revenue is to be used to encourage tourism, agriculture, and economic
development in the County by supporting a series of promotional, community, and
cultural activities. The remaining 25% of the revenue is to be used for County services
such as public safety and law enforcement, health services, and public facilities.

In accordance with the Elections Code, the scope of this fiscal impact analysis has
been limited to the measure’s effect on revenues and expenditures. It does not
address larger countywide fiscal issues such as the measure’s effect on the overall
County economy.

s/Donna M. Dunk
Sonoma County Auditor-Controller-Treasurer-Tax Collector

49-551

9454

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE L

Sonoma County’s Transient Occupancy Tax (also known as “TOT” or “Tourist
Tax”) is charged only to guests who stay overnight in our hotels, inns, vacation
rentals, and campgrounds. This tax is one of the most direct ways for our County to
collect revenue from visitors, which helps address the impacts of tourism. Visitors
use our roads, emergency services, and other county services, and impact our en-
vironment and natural resources, as they enjoy all Sonoma County has to offer.
Raising the TOT is a fair way to recover increased costs associated with visitor
stays in the County.

Measure L will not raise taxes for residents.

The County’s TOT rate has been 9% for over 20 years. Many local cities and com-
parable counties have TOT rates (including tourism assessments for cities) greater
than the proposed increase. Measure L levels the playing field and will keep the
TOT rate equal to or below taxes in neighboring cities and counties such as Napa
County, San Francisco City and County, Sacramento County, Santa Rosa,
Healdsburg, Sonoma, Rohnert Park, and Windsor. These communities are collect-
ing their fair share and so should we.

Measure L reduces the burden on residents to pay for County services.

Measure L will generate an estimated additional $4 million a year. The Sonoma
County Board of Supervisors members have expressed their intent to allocate the
increased revenue in line with County policy to fix our roads, and to fund fire and
emergency services, workforce development, workforce housing, vacation rental
code enforcement, and water quality protection.

We enjoy the luxury of living in a world class destination. Let’s ensure that distinction
is protected by asking visitors to pay their share. Measure L keeps our tourism industry
competitive while addressing its impacts. Please join us in supporting Measure L.

sl David Rabbitt	si	Paula	Cook

Sonoma County Supervisor	Veterans’	Housing	Builder

NORTH BAY LABOR COUNCIL	SONOMA COUNTY FIRE ADVISORY	COUNCIL

sl Jack Buckhorn, Executive Director si Doug Willliams, Chairman

SONOMA COUNTY ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT BOARD
sl Pam Chanter, Chair

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE L

Proponents of Measure L note that Sonoma County’s transient occupancy tax
(hotel tax) at 9% is lower than the TOTs charged by other local governments in the
North Bay Area. That must give Sonoma County a competitive advantage in the
tourist industry. Why lessen that advantage? By the proponents’ rationale, local
governments should play “follow the leader” in raising taxes. Further, proponents
state that the County supervisors have “expressed their intent” to allocate the
increase in revenue to fixing roads, funding emergency services, and protecting
water quality. But Measure L proposes a general tax, not a special tax. That means
the supervisors can promise one thing but do another. By far the biggest challenge
to the County’s fiscal health is the bloated County employees’ pension plan. The
Independent Citizens Advisory Committee’s study made a number of recom-
mendations which, if implemented, will go a long way toward solving the pension
problem. The supervisors should be spending their time and energy on implementing
the Committee’s recommendations rather than asking for yet another tax increase.

SONOMA COUNTY TAXPAYERS ASSOCIATION

sl Timothy J. Hannan, President

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE L

Here we go again - - more taxes. This time the tax would come in the form of an
increase in the rate of tax on tourists and other out-of-town guests staying in hotels
and motels. The room rate would be increased from 9% to 12%. How much more of
a financial strain can the County put on tourists before they begin to say “Let’s go
somewhere else”? Let’s not find out. More importantly, this increase in the tax on
tourists would be a general tax, meaning that the revenue could be used for any-
thing the supervisors want. By far the biggest budgetary problem facing the super-
visors is the County employee pension problem. One year ago, an Independent
Citizens Advisory Committee on Pension Matters was formed to examine the
pension problem. The Committee noted: “The total annual cost of employee pen-
sions is approximately 36% of (the County’s) payroll, and career employees can
take home more in pension and Social Security benefits when retired than they
took home while working.” Meanwhile, the ever-increasing burden of County
employee pensions continues to eat into funds needed for such essentials as road
repair and public safety. As the Committee noted, what is needed at the Board of
Supervisors is “a higher sense of urgency in pension reform efforts to reduce costs,
free resources, and reduce risk.” Measures to increase general tax revenue, such
as Measure L, would only reduce that needed sense of urgency. That would head
the supervisors away from fiscal responsibility, which would be the wrong direction.
Vote no on Measure L.

SONOMA COUNTY TAXPAYERS ASSOCIATION

sl Timothy J. Hannan, President

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE L

Measure L protects Sonoma County taxpayers by making sure that tourists pay
their fair share for local services. Millions of visitors to Sonoma County help drive
our economy. But when thousands of tourists arrive here on summer weekends,
especially in our coastal towns, help is needed to pay for the emergency medical,
public safety and other services used. When vacation rentals and hotels are full
and those who work in the hospitality industry are unable to rent an apartment, help
is needed to create workforce housing. When rural roads bear the wear and tear of
seven million annual visitors, they should help pay to preserve and maintain those
roads.

Increasing the hotel tax rate from 9% to 12% for those using vacation rentals, ho-
tels, and motels would raise about $4 million annually for these critical services.
This level of TOT taxation is at or below the tax rates for neighboring counties and
the cities in Sonoma County.

Under Measure L every dollar raised will benefit the taxpayers of Sonoma County.

For 30 years, the Board of Supervisors has reliably invested tourist taxes in pro-
grams that serve our community and boost our local economy. The proposed TOT
increase will mean that our visitors will pay their fair share for critical fire and emer-
gency services, workforce housing, vacation rental enforcement, and improved
roads.

Support the fair share tourist tax!

Protect local taxpayers and community services and vote Yes on Measure L.

sl Herman J. Hernandez	sl	John Lowry

Realtor	Retired Housing Director

Sl Ross Liscum	SAVE OUR SONOMA ROADS

Vietnam Veteran, Fair Board	sl	Craig S. Harrison, President

sl Susan Gorin
Sonoma County Supervisor

49-552

9454

VOTER’S PAMPHLET	
MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS	
(whichever is applicable to your ballot)  Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.	
FULL TEXT OF MEASURE L	Section 5. Election.
Exhibit A  ORDINANCE NO. ( )  AN ORDINANCE OF THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS OF THE COUNTY OF SONOMA, STATE OF CALIFORNIA, AMENDING THE PROVISIONS OF SECTION 12-11 OF THE SONOMA COUNTY CODE TO INCREASE THE TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX RATE FROM NINE (9) PERCENT TO TWELVE (12) PERCENT	An election shall be held on November 8, 2016, on the issue of increasing the transient occupancy tax rate from nine (9) percent to twelve (12) percent.  Section 6. Effective and Operative Dates.  This ordinance shall take effect immediately upon its adoption by a majority of the electorate voting on the ordinance at the November 8,2016, general election. The operative date of Section 1 shall be January 1,2017.
The Board of Supervisors of the County of Sonoma, State of California, ordains as follows:  Section 1. Amendment of Sonoma County Code Section 12-11.	Section 7. Compliance with the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA).  Pursuant to CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4), adoption of this ordinance as a government funding mechanism is not a project subject to the requirements of CEQA.
Section 12-11 of the Sonoma County Code is amended to read as follows: “Section 12-11. Imposition of tax-payment of tax by transient.	In regular session of the Board of Supervisors of the County of Sonoma introduced on the 19th day of July, 2016, and finally passed and adopted this 9th day of August, 2016, on regular roll call of the members of said Board by the following vote:
For the privilege of occupancy at any lodging, each transient is subject to and shall pay a tax in the amount of twelve (12) percent of the rent charged. Said tax constitutes a debt owed by the transient to the county which is extinguished only by payment to the Operator or to the county. The transient shall pay the tax to the Operator of the lodging at the time the rent is paid. If the rent is paid in installments, a proportionate share of the tax shall be paid with each installment. The unpaid tax shall be due upon the transient’s ceasing to occupy space at the lodging. It is the responsibility of the Operator to collect the tax. If, for any reason, the Operator fails to collect the tax due at the time the rent is collected, the Operator becomes liable for the tax due."	SUPERVISORS:  Gorin:	Rabbitt:	Zane:.	Gore:	Carrillo:	  Aves: Noes: Absent: Abstain:  WHEREUPON, the Chair declared the above and foregoing ordinance duly adopted and
Section 2. Nature of Tax.	SO ORDERED.
If approved by a majority of the electorate voting on the measure, the ordinance will increase the transient occupancy tax rate from nine (9) percent to twelve (12) percent of rent charged. The transient occupancy tax is a tax imposed upon transients for the privilege of occupying lodging located within the unincorporated territory of Sonoma County. The tax increase would be collected by operators, in the same manner as the current transient occupancy tax is collected. The collection of the tax from operators would be administered by the Sonoma County Tax Collector as provided in Chapter 12, Article III of the Sonoma County Code.	Chair, Board of Supervisors County of Sonoma  ATTEST:
Section 3. General Tax.	Veronica Ferguson, County Clerk and
The transient occupancy tax imposed by this ordinance is a general tax within the meaning of Government Code §53721 and Article XIII C, §1(a) of the California Constitution. The revenue generated by this general tax is available for general governmental purposes. To that end, the Auditor-Controller is instructed to deposit the revenue from the tax into the County General Fund and to include her estimate of the revenue from this general tax, together with her estimatesof other revenue sources, in the tabulation that she is annually required to prepare by Government Code §29060. The revenue from this general tax shall be available to the Board of Supervisors for annual appropriations in the County’s budget for any lawful expenditure. Nothing in this ordinance nor in any other ordinance, advisory measure, resolution, or policy shall be construed as limiting, in any way, the amount or the objects of the appropriations and expenditures that can be made from the revenue of the tax nor be construed as creating a continuing appropriation.	Clerk of the Board of Supervisors
Section 4. Severability.	
If any provision of this ordinance or the application thereof to any person or circum- stance is held invalid, the remainder of the ordinance and the application of such provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.	

9454

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

COUNTY OF SONOMA
MEASURE M

Shall the “Sonoma County Transgenic Contamination

M Prevention Ordinance,” which would 1) prohibit the
propagation, cultivation, raising, or growing of genetically
engineered organisms, as defined in the ordinance, in
the unincorporated County; 2) require the Sonoma County
Agricultural Commissioner to enforce the ordinance by assessing
a civil monetary penalty or pursuing an injunction against
violators; and 3) provide for fines and fees for each violation, be
adopted?

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE M

This measure seeks voter approval of an ordinance prohibiting the propagation, culti-
vation, raising, or growing of genetically engineered organisms, with certain narrow
exceptions. Any act in violation of the prohibition is subject to a mandatory civil
monetary penalty and potential court action.

The ordinance defines “organism” as “any biological entity capable of replication,
reproduction or transferring of genetic material,” excluding human beings and
human fetuses. “Genetically engineered organism” is defined to mean an organism
or its offspring, whose genetic material has been altered or amended by artificially
manipulating DNA or RNA or through other extraordinary methods to overcome
natural physiological, reproductive, or recombination barriers. The ordinance
excludes from the definition of “genetically engineered” traditional breeding
techniques, such as conjugation, transduction, and hybridization. The definition
also excludes animals that have only been fed or injected with a food or drug that
has been produced through genetic engineering.

The ordinance does not apply to the purchase, sale, or distribution of genetically engi-
neered human or animal food. It would, however, prohibit the growing of such food.
The ordinance also exempts treatment by licensed health care practitioners, as
well as research activities by laboratories or manufacturing facilities—provided the
reproduction of such organisms can be physically contained.

The ordinance takes effect upon approval by the voters and prohibits the propaga-
tion and cultivation of new genetically engineered organisms. Any person or entity
already propagating, cultivating, raising, or growing genetically engineered organ-
isms in the County on or before the effective date of the ordinance may maintain
such organisms until the end of their natural agronomic growth cycle. In addition,
any person or entity in possession of genetically engineered seed purchased be-
fore the effective date of the ordinance may cultivate those seeds in the growing
cycle immediately following the enactment of the ordinance. At the conclusion of
the transitional time periods, any person or entity who has continued propagating,
cultivating, raising, or growing genetically engineered organisms in the County
during the transitional period must destroy and safely dispose of any remaining
genetically engineered organisms or remove such organisms completely and perma-
nently from the County.

The Sonoma County Agricultural Commissioner (“Commissioner”) is charged with
enforcing the ordinance and is required to create and provide for a procedure for
any person to report any known or suspected violation of the ordinance. The ordi-
nance mandates that the Commissioner assess a civil monetary penalty against
any person or entity violating the ordinance. The ordinance additionally au-
thorizes the Commissioner to: (i) bring a court action to enjoin any person or en-
tity from violating the ordinance and (ii) require violators to pay the County’s costs
of enforcing the ordinance. Further, the ordinance requires the Commissioner to
submit an annual report to the Board of Supervisors describing, among other
things, all complaints received and enforcement actions taken during the year.

CONT. NEXT COLUMN

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE M, CONT.

The ordinance, if approved by a majority of the voters, will be enforceable in the un-
incorporated areas of Sonoma County. The ordinance may be amended or re-
pealed only by the voters.

BRUCE D. GOLDSTEIN
County Counsel

By: si Robert Pittman

Chief Deputy County Counsel

COUNTY AUDITOR’S FISCAL IMPACT STATEMENT - MEASURE M

The Sonoma County Transgenic Contamination Prevention Ordinance would
prohibit the propagation, cultivation, raising, or growing of genetically engineered
organisms in the unincorporated County. Any act in violation of the prohibition
would be subject to a mandatory civil monetary penalty and potential court action.
The Sonoma County Agricultural Commissioner (Commissioner) would be
charged with enforcement and would be required to create a procedure for any
person to report any known or suspected violations.

In our review of the initiative, we concluded there are three areas of costs incurred
by the County as a result of passage for the initiative. They are as follows:

Preparing for Implementation/Enforcement — This work includes developing
procedures for investigating complaints, reporting suspected violations, and
purchasing field sampling kits and equipment. The Commissioner has estimated
implementation and enforcement preparation costs to be $9,400.

Complaints, Investigations, and Samples — This work will focus on enforcement
and includes responding to and investigating complaints. The Commissioner has
estimated the cost to respond to complaints, conduct investigations, and take lab
samples to be $2,400 per occurrence on average. Enforcement could also
involve situations involving non-Genetically Modified Organism (GMO) labeled
seed containing GMO. The Commissioner has estimated the cost of testing related
to non-GMO labeled seed to be $1,400 per occurrence. The total fiscal impact of
responding to complaints cannot be estimated as it will depend on the number of
occurrences.

Responding to Violations — If the Commissioner determines that a violation has
occurred, the Commissioner would have to complete follow up work including
preparing a report, bringing an action in court, and collecting the penalty if required.
The Commissioner has estimated the cost to respond to violations to be $7,500 per
occurrence. Depending on the number of complaints received, the Commissioner
may require additional staff time and incur certain miscellaneous expenses that are
not included in the above estimate. The total fiscal impact of responding to
violations cannot be estimated as it will depend on the number of occurrences.

Revenues — The Commissioner shall assess a civil monetary penalty against any
person or entity violating this Ordinance in the amount of 1) one hundred dollars for
a first violation, 2) five hundred dollars for a second violation, or 3) one thousand
dollars for a third or subsequent violation. In assessing penalties, each day of
violation must be considered a separate violation. Because the Commissioner
must prove the person knowingly violated this Ordinance, the collection for the
above costs may not be possible. The revenues collected for violations may not
reimburse the County for all costs related to this initiative.

Conclusion — The total fiscal impact of this initiative is dependent upon investigation
volumes and penalty revenues and cannot be determined.

In accordance with the Elections Code, the scope of this fiscal impact analysis has
been limited to the initiative’s effect on County government’s revenues and expen-
ditures. It does not address larger countywide fiscal issues.

si Donna M. Dunk
Sonoma County Auditor-Controller-Treasurer-Tax Collector

49-554

9455

VOTER’S PAMPHLET MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS  (whichever is applicable to your ballot)  Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.	
ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE M  Measure M is simple: It only prohibits growing genetically engineered organisms in Sonoma County. Santa Cruz, Marin, Mendocino, Humboldt, and Trinity Counties have had this prohibition for up to 11 years with no cost to taxpayers. Measure M’s clear definition of Genetic Engineering is similar to that used successfully in these Counties with no confusion.  Genetically engineered crops are a major threat to farmers because of cross-polli- nation. Genetically engineered corn and grass, created to resist pesticides, have been shown to contaminate traditional crops miles away. Legally 1% contamina- tion results in loss of farmers’ rights to save seed, which belongs to patent hold- ing corporations. Customers demanding non-GMO food will not purchase contaminated crops. Most genetically engineered plants are made to withstand heavy doses of herbicides, leaving residues on food. Others, like corn (already grown here), produce insecticides in every cell. Measure M won’t deny health prac- titioners from providing treatment to any human or animal; won’t prevent the pur- chase of genetically engineered food/feed; and won’t prevent research in secure laboratories. Animals can receive vaccines, diabetics can receive insulin, and customers can purchase foods they choose. 35 nations prohibit cultivating GMOs and many ban imports. Millions of dollars in lost exports have occurred due to con- tamination in the USA. Japan and South Korea blocked imports of wheat after GMOs were found growing in Washington State. Measure M protects local farm- ers’ livelihoods.  “Passing this initiative is critical to the long-term success of organic dairy farmers and rural economies.” -Albert Straus, organic dairy farmer  Hundreds of local farmers, grape growers, community leaders and organizations support Measure M to protect the purity of Sonoma County agriculture. Listed at: www.gmofreesonomacounty/endorsers. Contamination is irreversible. Let’s pro- tect Sonoma County’s reputation for pure food. Read Measure M, get the facts. Stand with local family farmers by Voting Yes on M.  sl Mark Squire si Toni Coturri Tara Firma Farm Owner Coturri Winery, Winemaker  SONOMA COUNTY DEMOCRATIC PARTY SLOW FOOD RUSSIAN RIVER sl Bleys W. Rose, Chair si Max A. Caruso  COMMUNITY ALLIANCE WITH FAMILY FARMERS NORTHCOAST CHAPTER sl Wendy Krupnick, Vice President  REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE M  Please look into the facts. Measure M will hurt local family farmers and ranchers. It will do nothing to make our food better or safer. Measure M would permanently ban future crop technologies that protect local crops from pests and diseases, and re- duce the use of pesticides. It is irresponsible to permanently ban technologies that are needed to farm sustainably. Family farms and ranches; mothers, fathers, sons and daughters, need every tool available to choose in sustainably producing local, healthy and affordable food and fiber for Sonoma County and the world.  Scientists at the University of California Cooperative Extension determined, “there are no native plants, trees, or animals in the county that are at risk of contamination with GMOs.”  No farmers have ever been prosecuted under patent infringement for accidental comingling due to cross pollination. The National Organic Program recognizes that 100% purity is unattainable and allows for the inadvertent presence of biotech traits in seeds and produce. According to University of California scientists: “No organi- cally certified farm has ever lost its USDA organic certification due to the presence of commingled biotech plant material.”  Creating an arbitrary ban only in our county will jeopardize our local economy and be costly for taxpayers to implement; money better spent on transportation, jobs and housing. Doug Beretta, a third generation organic dairyman - “No GMO crop grown in Sonoma County has ever put a dairy or any other farm out of business.” County voters rejected a similar measure 10 years ago. Please vote No again.  SONOMA COUNTY FARM BUREAU sl David Rabbitt  sl John Azevedo, President Sonoma County Supervisor  sl Vickie Mulas sl Doug Beretta Grape Grower Organic Dairyman  sl Kim Vail  Executive Director, Sonoma County Farm Bureau	ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE M  Measure M is an unnecessary, poorly drafted measure that won’t do anything to benefit Sonoma County residents or make our food safer. Instead, by creating an arbitrary ban only in our county, Measure M will hurt local family farmers and ranch- ers, jeopardize our local economy that depends heavily on agriculture, and cost tens to hundreds of thousands of taxpayer dollars in new bureaucracy and red tape to implement. Please vote no.  Scientists at the University of California Cooperative Extension were asked by the County to evaluate Measure M. They concluded the measure is so poorly drafted that it could even ban new technologies including “some insect control measures like those being used to control mosquito vector of the Zika virus” and vaccines “used to prevent West Nile”. The UC scientists also warn Measure M would per- manently ban some currently accepted and future crop technologies such as those needed to protect vineyards from Pierce’s Disease. By creating an arbitrary ban on growing crops that only applies in Sonoma County, Measure M would put local family farmers, ranchers and vineyards at a disadvantage to farmers in other coun- ties.  Don’t believe proponents’ scare tactics. The UC scientists found “there are no native plants, trees, or animals in the county that are at risk of contamination.” The National Academy of Sciences, World Health Organization, American Medical As- sociation and 111 Nobel Laureates have all concluded genetically engineered crops are safe and crucial to feed the world’s growing population. Biotechnology helps combat climate change and reduce the use of pesticides and water on crops.  Please reject this poorly drafted measure. It only applies in unincorporated areas of the county and does nothing to benefit Sonoma County residents. It will be harmful to local farmers and ranchers, and costly for taxpayers and our economy.  SONOMA COUNTY FARM BUREAU SONOMA COUNTY ALLIANCE sl John Azevedo, President sl Scott Kincaid, President  sl Shirlee Zane sl Mike Martini Sonoma County Supervisor Winery Owner  sl Dr. Stephanie Larson County Director, University California Cooperative Extension  REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE M  Measure M protects Sonoma County from genetic contamination and herbicides. Most GMO crops are genetically engineered by chemical companies to withstand toxic herbicides. Why? So they can be sprayed with the herbicides these same companies sell - herbicides that end up in our food, water and air. Globally, con- sumers demand non-GMO food. Transgenic pollen contaminates crops, making them unmarketable. Crops grown in Sonoma County that would be contaminated include apples, corn, beets, alfalfa and grasses.  Measure M is carefully drafted and based upon identical measures already en- acted in five neighboring counties. The opposition’s scare tactic is to state this will cost huge amounts. Not true. Measure M will enhance local Sonoma County farm production just as similar measures do with minimal to no cost. Measure M helps Sonoma County’s wine industry. GMO grapes have proven worthless in preventing Pierce’s Disease. 35 countries, including France and Italy, restrict GMO imports. Measure M will protect Sonoma County’s world-class wines by retaining existing markets. Measure M doesn’t prevent vaccinations or medical treatments as oppo- nents claim. UC Davis scientists cited by opponents are funded by chemical corpo- rations. No wonder they misquote our Measure. Don’t let them confuse you. University research disproves the myth that GMOs increase food production. There’s growing concern among scientists about GMO health risks and increased herbicide use. Don’t believe the corporate spin to the contrary.  Stand with over fifty Sonoma County farms, ranches and wineries, local Granges, the Sierra Club, Sonoma County Democratic Party, Lynn Woolsey, and thousands of local residents to protect the purity and reputation of Sonoma County agriculture. Vote ves on Measure M. www.amofreesonomacountv.com/about  sl Drake Sadler FOREST UNLIMITED Traditional Medicinals Co-Founder, Chairman sl Larry Hanson, Board President  sl Philip Coturri SEBASTOPOL GRANGE Owner of Enterprise Vineyards sl Lawrence Jaffe  sl Claudia de la Pena Petaluma Seed Bank Assistant Manager

9455

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE M
THE PEOPLE OF THE COUNTY OF SONOMA ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1 — Title

This ordinance shall be known as the Sonoma County Transgenic Con-
tamination Prevention Ordinance.

Section 2 — Purpose

The purposes of this chapter are (1) to protect Sonoma County’s native plants,
trees, and animals from transgenic contamination from genetically engineered
(“GE”) organisms; (2) to defend and promote the economic integrity of organic
and other markets that are harmed by transgenic contamination by GE
organisms; and (3) to preserve the right of Sonoma County residents to grow
the plants and crops of their choice and to be free from transgenic
contamination from GE organisms. This chapter shall be liberally construed to
fulfill these purposes.

Section 3 — Findings

(a)	The rapid, long-term, and unregulated growth of commercial agricultural entities
engaged in the cultivation and development of GE organisms threatens the
stability and growth of Sonoma County’s agricultural economy, the health of
its citizens, and its environment.

(b)	Sonoma County residents have the right to decide that the risks associated
with cultivating genetically engineered crops are unacceptable and to take
action to prohibit such crops.

(c)	Agriculture is a vital component of Sonoma County’s economy. Sonoma’s
agricultural economy relies on maintaining its reputation for high quality
organic and conventional crops. According to the Sonoma County Agricultural
Commissioners’ (SCAC) Office, as of January 1,2014, there were approximately
260 individual organic registrants in Sonoma County encompassing more
than 20,000 acres. The SCAC 2013 Crop Report stated that there were
approximately 40 individual registrants for organic dairy operations with
approximately 6,846 head of cattle, and about 52 individual organic wine
grape registrants. According to the SCAC Crop Report for 2013, there was a
total of approximately 64,073.3 acres of registered wine grapes in Sonoma
County. The SCAC Crop Report for 2013 also recorded 13 organic individual
meat registrants, raising about 956,071 head, and approximately 20,224
acres of organic pasture/rangeland. The SCAC 2013 Crop Report states
that traditional livestock and poultry production was valued at approximately
$65,103,100. Preserving the identity, quality, and reliability of Sonoma’s
non-GMO conventional and organic agricultural products, and exports is
therefore critical to its economic well-being.

(d)	Transgenic contamination can and does occur as a result of cross-pollination,
comingling of conventional and GE seeds, accidental transfer by animals,
weather, and other mechanisms. Transgenic contamination results in GE
crops growing where they are not intended.

(e)	The contamination of both conventional and organic agricultural products
with GE material can have a myriad of significant impacts. Organic and
many foreign markets prohibit GE crops, and even a single event of trans-
genic contamination, can and has resulted in significant economic harm
when the contaminated crops are rejected by buyers. Farmers and other
parties who lose markets, through no fault of their own, as a result of
transgenic contamination may not find adequate legal recourse. Further,
contamination causes the loss of the fundamental right to choose, for the
farmer and the public, to sow crops that are not engineered.

(f)	Currently, no mechanisms exist to guarantee that transgenic contamination
will not occur.

(g)	The rapid development and introduction of GE crops, combined with in-
adequate regulatory oversight at the state and federal levels, have left the
citizens of Sonoma County with significant concerns regarding the
long-term safety of GE crops. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration does
not require or conduct safety studies of genetically engineered foods. Instead,

any safety consultations are voluntary, and genetically engineered food
developers may decide what information to provide to the agency. Market
approval of genetically engineered food is based on industry research
alone. There have been no long-term or epidemiological studies in the U.S.
that examine the safety of human consumption of genetically engineered
foods.

(h)	Manipulating genes in plants and animals via genetic engineering and
inserting them into organisms is an imprecise process and often causes un-
intended consequences. Mixing plant, animal, bacterial, and viral genes
through genetic engineering in combinations that cannot occur in nature
may produce results that lead to adverse health or environmental consequences.

(i)	Independent scientists are limited from conducting safety and risk-
assessment research of genetically engineered materials due to industry
restrictions on research of those materials.

(j)	The cultivation of GE crops can have serious effects on the environment.
For example, in 2014,94 percent of all soy grown in the U.S. was engineered
to be herbicide resistant. In fact, the vast majority of GE crops are designed
to withstand herbicides, and therefore promote indiscriminate herbicide use.
As a result, GE herbicide-resistant crops have caused 527 million pounds of
additional herbicides to be applied to the nation’s farmland over the 16 year
period from 1996-2011. These toxic herbicides damage the vitality and
quality of our soil, harm wildlife, contaminate our drinking water, and pose
health risks to consumers and farm workers.

(k)	Increased use of herbicides in GE agriculture has resulted in the rapid
development and proliferation of previously unknown herbicide-tolerant
superweeds. These superweeds threaten to overtake the habitat of native
flora and fauna in uncultivated lands and force farmers to use increasingly
toxic and expensive herbicides to remove them from cultivated lands.

(l)	Insect-resistant GE crops pose a high risk of fostering rapid evolution of
pests resistant to organic pesticides, to the detriment of organic farmers,
and they also facilitate agriculturally and environmentally harmful
monocultures, such as growing corn continuously on the same field year after
year.

(m)	The impacts of the direct introduction into Sonoma County of genetically
engineered organisms such as trees or fishes, or contamination by
them, would be unknowable in advance. However, such introduction or
contamination would have the potential to seriously imperil local ecosystems,
to threaten traditional ways of life in our rural county, and to undermine critical
local industries including forestry, fisheries, and tourism. Many countries
and regions around the world have prohibited or strictly regulated their
cultivation, use and/or importation. In the absence of such appropriate,
effective regulation in California or the broader United States, many local
governments in our region have acted to restrict or prohibit the growing of
genetically engineered organisms within their borders. Such local govern-
ments include the Counties of Mendocino, Marin, Trinity, Humboldt and
Santa Cruz.

(n)	For these reasons, the People of Sonoma County find that the propagation,
cultivation, raising or growing of genetically engineered organisms in the
County is not consistent with proper and accepted agricultural customs and
standards of Sonoma County. Furthermore, because the risk of transgenic
contamination increases the longer a genetically engineered organism
remains in an uncontrolled environment, the People find that the contamination
risk caused by the propagation, cultivation, raising or growing of genetically
engineered organisms shall be remedied as set forth below.

Section 4 — Definitions

(a)	“Commissioner” means the Sonoma County Agricultural Commissioner.

(b)	“Genetically engineered” means produced from an organism or organisms
in which the genetic material has been changed through the application of:

CONT. NEXT PAGE

49-556

9455

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE M, CONT.

1)	In vitro nucleic acid techniques which include, but are not limited to,
recombinant deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) or ribonucleic acid (RNA),
direct injection of nucleic acid into cells or organelles, encapsulation,
gene deletion, and doubling; or

2)	Methods of fusing cells beyond the taxonomic family that overcome
natural physiological, reproductive, or recombination barriers, and
that are not techniques used in traditional breeding and selection
such as conjugation, transduction, and hybridization.

(c)	“Organism” means any biological entity capable of replication, reproduction
or transferring of genetic material, exclusive of human beings and human
fetuses.

(d)	“Genetically engineered organism” means an organism, or the offspring
of an organism, the DNA of which has been altered or amended through
genetic engineering. Such organisms are also sometimes referred to
as “genetically modified organisms” or “GMOs.” For the purposes of this
definition, an animal, which has not itself been genetically engineered,
regardless of whether such animal has been fed or injected with any food or
drug that has been produced through means of genetic engineering, shall
not be considered genetically engineered.

Section 5 — Prohibitions

It is unlawful for any person, partnership, corporation, firm or entity of any kind
to propagate, cultivate, raise or grow genetically engineered organisms in the
County. Any act in violation of this provision is subject to the enforcement
measures outlined in Section 8.

Section 6 — Exemptions

(a)	Nothing in this Ordinance shall make it unlawful for:

1)	any person or other legal entity in the County to purchase, sell, or
distribute genetically engineered human food or animal feed;

2)	any licensed health care practitioner to provide any diagnosis, care or
treatment to any human patient or animal; or

3)	any research institutions, laboratories or manufacturing facilities in
the County to conduct research involving genetically engineered
organisms whose reproduction in the environment can be physically
contained. Such research activities must be conducted under secure,
enclosed indoor laboratory conditions, with utmost precautions to
prevent release of genetically engineered organisms into the outside
environment.

Section 7 — Effective Date and Transitional Period

(a)	This Ordinance shall take effect immediately upon approval by the Board
of Supervisors or voters of Sonoma County, except as set forth here and
below.

(b)	Any person or other legal entity that is already propagating, cultivating, raising
or growing genetically engineered organisms in the County on, or before,
the date this Ordinance is approved by the Board of Supervisors or voters of
Sonoma County shall be permitted to maintain such organisms until the end
of their natural agronomic growth cycle. Any person or other legal entity in
possession of genetically engineered seed purchased before the date this
Ordinance is approved may cultivate those seeds in the growing cycle
immediately following the enactment of this Ordinance. At the conclusion
of that time period, any person or other legal entity who has continued
propagating, cultivating, raising or growing genetically engineered organisms
in the County during this transitional period shall be required to destroy and
safely dispose of, or remove completely and permanently from the County,
any remaining genetically engineered organisms.

(c)	None of the provisions of this Ordinance shall be construed to permit any
person or other legal entity that is not currently in possession of genetically
engineered seed or already propagating, cultivating, raising or growing
genetically engineered organisms in the County to begin to do so after this

Ordinance is approved by the Board of Supervisors or voters of Sonoma
County.

(d)	Other than Section 7(a) above, none of the provisions of the Ordinance shall be
construed to permit any person or other legal entity who is already propagating,
cultivating, raising or growing genetically engineered organisms in the
County to propagate, cultivate, raise or grow any genetically engineered
organisms not already living and established in the County, or otherwise to
begin any new activity prohibited by Section (5) of this Ordinance, after it
takes effect.

Section 8 — Regulations

If necessary, the Commissioner may enact and enforce regulations to implement
this chapter, but it may not create any new exemption not listed in this chapter.

Section 9 — Enforcement

(a)	The Commissioner shall create and provide for a procedure for any person
to report any known or suspected violation of this Ordinance. The procedure
shall include the creation of a reporting form to document the nature and
location of the reported violation, the basis for the report, and contact
information for the reporting party.

(b)	The Commissioner may bring an action in a court of competent jurisdiction
to enjoin any person or entity from violating this chapter.

(c)	The Commissioner shall assess a civil monetary penalty against any person
or entity violating this chapter, in the amount of:

1)	One hundred dollars for a first violation;

2)	Five hundred dollars for a second violation; or

3)	One thousand dollars for a third or subsequent violation.

In assessing penalties, each day of violation must be considered a separate
violation.

(d)	The Commissioner may also assess to the violator of this Ordinance any
costs of enforcing the provisions of this Ordinance.

(e)	The Commissioner shall submit an annual report to the Board containing
a brief description of all complaints received and enforcement actions
taken under this Ordinance, if any, along with any other relevant information
or analysis the Commissioner may choose, at his or her discretion, to
include. A copy of such report shall be posted on the County Department of
Agriculture’s official website.

Section 10 — Severability

The provisions of this Ordinance are severable. If any provision of this Ordi-
nance or its application is held invalid, that invalidity shall not affect other
provisions or applications that can be given effect without the invalid provi-
sion or application.

49-557

9455

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

CITY OF SANTA ROSA
MEASURE N

Santa Rosa City Services Measure. To maintain

N financial stability and funding, without increasing taxes,
for city services, such as police/fire protection; 9-1-1
emergency response; street/pothole repair;
parks/recreation programs; affordable housing/homelessness
services; and other general city services, shall the City of Santa
Rosa extend an existing, voter-approved 1/4 cent sales tax for
eight additional years, providing approximately $8 million
annually; requiring independent audits, public spending review,
and all funds controlled locally?

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE N

Measure N would amend a measure adopted by Santa Rosa voters in the Novem-
ber 2010 election. The original measure established a 1/4 cent sales tax within the
City of Santa Rosa. The revenues from the tax are placed in the City’s General
Fund and may be used for general City operations and programs such as police
and fire services, street maintenance, park and recreational programs, gang
prevention and any other governmental functions and services. This sales tax is
due to expire on March 31,2019.

Measure N would extend the tax for an additional eight years, until March 31,2027.
The measure would not increase or otherwise change the sales tax.

The proposed extension of this tax is authorized by California Revenue and Taxa-
tion Code Section 7285.9, subject to approval by two-thirds of the City Council and
a majority of the voters voting on the measure. On August 2,2016, the Council of
the City of Santa Rosa voted unanimously to place this measure on the ballot.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure N. If you desire a copy of
the ordinance or measure, please call the City Clerk at (707) 543-3015 and a copy
will be mailed at no cost to you.

s/Teresa L. Striker
Interim City Attorney

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE N

Vote Yes on Measures O & N: Protect and maintain Santa Rosa’s streets, public
safety and services, without raising existing, voter-approved tax rates.

Measure N simply continues existing, voter-approved local funding to maintain the
critical services we all rely on: police and fire protection, youth and senior pro-
grams, street and park maintenance, homeless services, and affordable housing.

Yes on N keeps Santa Rosa safe by maintaining emergency medical services; Yes
on N maintains 911 response times, fire protection services, and neighborhood po-
lice patrols; Yes on N protects the prevention programs our young people need:
school tutoring, mentoring, job training, and drug and gang prevention services;
Yes on N preserves funding for homeless services, and affordable housing; Yes on
N fixes potholes, repairs sidewalks, and repaves local streets.

Without extending the reliable, locally-controlled funding Measure N provides,
Santa Rosa will be forced to reduce these services. For the past 5 years, Sacra-
mento has taken over $25,000,000 from Santa Rosa alone. By law, every penny of
Measure N money must continue to be spent on our local services. Not a dime can
be taken by Sacramento politicians. Measure N includes tough fiscal accountability
guarantees including independent audits and publishing expenditure reports.

Here’s what Measure N won’t do: Measure N does not raise your tax rates; Mea-
sure N is not a tax on your home or property; Measure N is not applied to food pur-
chased as groceries or prescription medications.

Join a unanimous Santa Rosa City Council who placed Measures O & N on the bal-
lot. Measures O & N are supported by Santa Rosa residents from all neighbor-
hoods and walks of life—vote Yes. Let’s keep the momentum up, and remember to
vote local this election.

For factual information about Measures O & N, visit www.ci.santa-rosa.ca.us

sl Steven Rabinowitsh	si	John Sawyer

Community Activist	Mayor, Santa Rosa

si Velma Colombano	si	Linda Adrain

Senior, 55 year resident Manufactured-Home Park Residents’ Advocate

SRPOA

sl John Barr, Vice-Pres

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE N

Read carefully the argument in favor of Measure N. Note what is omitted.

Omitted is any acknowledgment that the 2010 tax increase was intended as a tem-
porary tax to help the city weather a period of financial crises. Omitted are the
doom and gloom projections of slashed budgets, employee layoffs and decimated
city services used to justify imposition of the tax in 2010.

Omitted also is any recognition of city council’s inability to rein in growing unfunded
pension liabilities. And in that regard, it is of particular note that among the argu-
ment signers is the Santa Rosa Police Officers Association (SRPOA) whose mem-
bers are the primary beneficiaries of those excessive pension plans.

Supporters argued in 2010 that without additional revenue for a “limited time,”
budget cuts eliminating vital basic services would occur. Today they argue that
Measure N “simply continues” existing funding conveniently ignoring the fact that
the tax was never meant to continue beyond the recession.

The city’s finances are as strong today as they have been in nearly a decade. So
strong in fact that when contracted designers of the new Fountaingrove firehouse
failed to comply with ADA accessibility requirements, little effort was made by city
council to seek from those designers reimbursement for the expensive renovations
required.

City councilmembers are again asking you for more money, but the reasons that
justified the temporary tax increase in 2010 no longer exist today. Temporary
means temporary. Please vote No on Measure N.

SONOMA COUNTY TAXPAYERS’ ASSOCIATION
sl Dan Drummond, Executive Director

49-558

9565

VOTER’S PAMPHLET MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS  (whichever is applicable to your ballot)  Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.	
ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE N  This year’s Measure N is the request of Santa Rosa’s city council to extend the 2010 “temporary” sales tax increase commonly known as Measure P. In 2010, the city council asked voters for the increase to help weather what they argued in their ballot argument at the time was the “most serious fiscal crisis” experienced by the city due to the “severe recession.” Without the increase, the supporters continued, residents would experience fire station brownouts, police force reductions, and park closures. The Finley Swim Center was said to be on the “chopping block.” It was a time of economic hardship and voters generously approved the temporary tax increase.  Now, six years later, things are different. The economy is rebounding; sales, prop- erty and hotel taxes are on the rise; city revenues now exceed pre-recessionary levels. The needs that justified the 2010 increase are gone. Yet, a city council hav- ing forgotten the 2010 increase was a temporary boost to help the city through a turbulent time and evidently having grown accustomed to the extra revenue is ask- ing you to extend the tax another eight years even though its economic justifications no longer exist.  Making matters worse, the tax is a general purpose tax meaning any funds raised go directly into the city’s general fund where they can be spent for any purpose the current or future city councils decide. Promises that the funds will be used for street repairs, police and fire services or any other purpose are meaningless, as was their promise in 2010 that the tax would be temporary.  Tell the city council that promises matter. Tell them taxes temporarily approved to help during a period of economic crisis are not a slush fund to be continued indefi- nitely.  Please vote No on Measure N.  SONOMA COUNTY TAXPAYERS’ ASSOCIATION s/ Dan Drummond, Executive Director  REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE N  If the author of the argument against Measure N actually lived in Santa Rosa, he would know the devastating effects of the Recession on essential city services, and he would understand that we need to continue with local funding in order to maintain those services that we have worked to restore.  Fact: Measure N is not a new tax. Fact: Voting yes on N doesn’t increase the taxes you currently pay. Yes on N simply continues existing, voter-approved local fund- ing for another 8 years. Fact: Santa Rosa’s street and road maintenance has been deferred and must be addressed before it becomes even more expensive to do so. Measure N accomplishes this, saving taxpayer dollars in the long-term.  Without Measure N, public safety, street/pothole repair, homeless services, youth and housing programs will be reduced. Yes on N fixes our potholes, gives our police the resources to fight crime, and maintains the after-school, anti-gang, and recreation programs that keep kids out of trouble.  Measure N is fiscally accountable and includes annual financial audits and reports to the community to ensure funds are spent consistent with priorities identified by you, the taxpayer.  Yes on N maintains our services no matter what happens in Sacramento or with the economy. All funds are required to stay local. No money can be taken by Sacra- mento politicians.  Yes on N maintains the Santa Rosa quality of life we all enjoy, without raising our tax rates. Please join us in voting yes.  si Steven Rabinowitsh si Ramon F. Meraz Community Activist Measure O Oversight Committee  si Velma Colombano si Linda Adrain Senior, 55 Year Resident Mobilehome Park Residents’ Advocate  SRPOA sl John Barr	

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

CITY OF SANTA ROSA
MEASURE 0

City of Santa Rosa Public Safety Spending Levels. Shall

Othe City of Santa Rosa amend the minimum funding
requirements for public safety services, including police,
fire, and gang-prevention, to reflect City FY 2015-16
General Fund budget levels?

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE 0

Measure 0 would amend a measure adopted by Santa Rosa voters at the Novem-
ber 2004 election. The original measure established a 1/4 cent sales tax within the
City of Santa Rosa, the revenues of which may be used only for certain police and
fire purposes and gang prevention and youth programs.

Under the original measure, during the continuation of the tax, the City’s annual
funding of certain Police Department, Fire Department and Gang Prevention/
Intervention Programs purposes and uses from the City’s General Fund (“annual
baseline funding”) may not be a lower dollar amount than the funding for those
uses and purposes approved in the City’s 2004-2005 fiscal year budget, adjusted
annually by changes in the area’s cost of living index, unless a lower level of
funding is approved by the affirmative vote of six Council Members.

Measure O would amend the annual baseline funding section of the original
measure. Under Measure O, during the continuation of the sales tax, the annual
baseline funding of Police Department, Fire Department and Gang Prevention/
Intervention Programs’ purposes and uses could not be a lower percentage of City
General Fund expenditures than was funded under the City’s 2015-2016 fiscal
year General Fund budget for the same purposes and uses, unless a lower level of
funding is approved by the affirmative vote of six Council Members.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE O

Vote Yes on Measures O & N: Protect and maintain Santa Rosa’s streets, public
safety and services, without raising existing, voter-approved tax rates.

Yes on O simply updates the funding formula adopted by Santa Rosa voters in
2004 to one based on 2016 budget needs.

In November 2004,70% of Santa Rosa voters previously approved a measure to
support police, fire, and gang prevention and intervention programs. Now, we need
to update Measure O’s funding formula (based on the 2004 budget), to today’s
budget realities. Doing so will allow our City to continue to fund the police, fire and
prevention services we all value, while supporting our City’s long-term financial
stability and other quality of life services such as our roads, housing, parks, and
programs for youth and seniors—vote Yes on O.

Voting Yes on O honors the Santa Rosa community’s historical support for police,
fire and prevention programs while updating the previous measure to today’s
needs. 100% of Measure O revenues will continue to exclusively enhance police,
fire, and prevention programs.

Here’s what Measure O won’t do:

-Yes on O does not otherwise change the measure as adopted by voters in 2004;
-Measure O does not create a new tax and does not raise tax rates.

Join a unanimous Santa Rosa City Council who placed Measures O & N on the
ballot.

Measures O & N are supported by Santa Rosa residents from all neighborhoods
and walks of life — vote Yes.

For factual information about Measures O & N, visit www.ci.santa-rosa.ca.us

s/ Jane Bender	si Steven	Rabinowitsh

Former Mayor, Santa Rosa	Community	Activist

Measure O would not increase the amount of the sale tax, extend its duration, or
otherwise change the sales tax.

si Janet Condron
Former Mayor Santa Rosa

si John Sawyer
Mayor, Santa Rosa

On August 2, 2016, the Council of the City of Santa Rosa voted unanimously to
place this measure on the ballot. This measure requires the approval of a majority
of the voters voting on the measure.

SANTA ROSA FIREFIGHTERS L1401
s/ Travis Berg - Union Representative

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure O. If you desire a copy of
the ordinance or measure, please call the City Clerk at (707) 543-3015 and a copy
will be mailed at no cost to you.

s/Teresa L. Strieker
Interim City Attorney

NO ARGUMENT WAS SUBMITTED AGAINST MEASURE O

49-560

9570

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

SONOMA COUNTY LIBRARY
MEASUREY

To maintain, restore/enhance Library services including:

Y maintaining children’s/teen books, materials/services;
providing educational services, including homework
help/computer labs; expanding senior/disabled services;
keeping qualified librarians; restoring library hours; shall the
Sonoma County Library increase the sales tax by 1/8 of a
percent, providing $12,000,000 annually for ten years, and
increase the spending limit to allow use of the revenue, with
independent audits, citizen oversight, requiring all funds go to
Sonoma County Library/no money for Sacramento?

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE Y

State law authorizes the Sonoma County Library, a joint powers agency, to levy
a retail transactions and use tax (sales tax) if the ordinance proposing the tax is ap-
proved by a two-thirds vote of all members of the Sonoma County Library Commis-
sion and the tax is approved by two-thirds of the voters who vote on the measure.

The Sonoma County Library Commission has unanimously approved the ordinance
proposing a sales tax of one-eighth of one cent (0.125%) to fund the Sonoma
County Library, a joint powers agency in which the County of Sonoma and all
incorporated cities in the county are members, and called an election to place the
measure on the ballot for voter approval. If voters approve Measure Y, collection of
the sales tax would commence on April 1,2017, and the tax would be levied for no
more than ten years.

Proceeds from the tax would be placed in a special fund in the County Treasury
and could only be used for the purposes set out in Expenditure Plan attached to
Measure Y, which follows this analysis. Those purposes include, but are not limited
to: preserving and enhancing existing libraries; restoring and enhancing service
hours at library branches; providing classes, materials, and services to school age
and pre-school children; extending library service to underserved communities;
and updating and acquiring new technology at all library branches. Measure Y
states that revenues collected from the tax shall be used only to supplement, and
not supplant, existing Library funding.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE Y

Library services are in jeopardy. Our independently funded and operated library
system relies on property tax revenues that have not kept pace with costs since the
Great Recession. This measure will prevent further cuts to our library and provide
stable funding.

A Yes vote on Measure Y will keep qualified librarians; continue reading clubs and
classes for children and teens; maintain library facilities; restore library hours;
maintain the children’s and adult book and digital collections; provide safe places
for children after school; expand senior and disabled services; keep the temporary
Roseland Library open; extend library services to underserved communities;
modernize computer technology in aging facilities; and provide computer labs for
youth classes and workforce training.

Our local libraries benefit everyone. Sonoma County Library serves nearly

500.000	residents with 11 full-service libraries, two rural stations, and a community
library in Roseland. Approximately 2 million people visit our libraries each year,
checking out over 3.5 million books, DVDs, audiobooks, and eBooks. Each year

73.000	children attend library events, educational classes, and story times.

Some school libraries have closed while others struggle with limited hours. This
makes our public libraries more important than ever. Community libraries provide a
safe place for youth to do their homework and participate in after school programs,
keeping kids of all ages safe and off the streets.

Comparing Sonoma to neighboring counties, Napa spends 2.5 times more per
person on library services, while Marin and San Francisco spend more than 3
times per person.

A Yes vote includes stringent financial accountability. To ensure that funds are
spent as promised, Measure Y mandates citizens’ oversight, annual independent
financial audits, and reports to the community. All revenues must be used exclu-
sively for library purposes and cannot be taken by the State. Join us in voting Yes
on Measure Y.

s / Brett W Lear
Library Director

s/Jean F Schulz
Taxpayer

si Ruben Arminana
President emeritus - Sonoma State Univ.

si Kurt Kunde
Owner, Plus One Professionals, LLC

The sales tax would be imposed on all retailers in the incorporated and
unincorporated County for the selling of tangible personal property at retail, subject to
certain exemptions and exclusions identified in the measure.

s/Sarah Glade Gurney
Mayor, City of Sebastopol

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE Y

If approved, Measure Y raises the Library’s “spending limit’ for the maximum period
(four years) allowed by state law to allow the Library to spend the proceeds of the
tax for the purposes set forth in the Expenditure Plan.

Measure Y would be subject to strict accountability provisions to ensure that funds
are spent properly. The Library Director would be required to annually report the
amount of funds collected and the status of projects funded by the tax revenue.
Further, the Library Commission would be required to establish an 11 -member
Citizens Oversight Committee to annually review expenditures and appropriations
of the tax revenues to ensure revenues are expended only for the purposes set
forth in the Expenditure Plan.

If two-thirds of the voters in the County who vote on this measure vote “Yes,” the
measure will pass and the sales tax will be levied.

BRUCE D. GOLDSTEIN
County Counsel

By:s/ Robert Pittman

Chief Deputy County Counsel

Supporters argue that property tax revenues upon which the libraries depend have
not kept pace with costs since the recession. That’s not really true. Revenues have
exceeded expenses by $538,000 and $910,000 in 2014 and 2013, respectively,
the last years for which information is available. Their problem is that they have
spent their revenues on unnecessary consultants and self-serving salary in-
creases leaving not enough money for more important matters, like restoring
library hours.

Supporters also argue that neighboring counties spend 2.5 to 3 times more per
person on their libraries than does Sonoma County. That may be technically true,
but is also misleading. It falsely assumes the library systems compared have simi-
lar expenses, which is not necessarily the case. The Sonoma County Library sys-
tem is actually a partnership of the county and its nine incorporated cities. Each of
those partners provide the buildings and grounds upon which the libraries operate.
No rent is paid by the library system for those facilities, which keeps down ex-
penses thereby reducing the per capita figures. It also skews comparisons to other
libraries. A meaningful comparison would have included the expenses borne by
the county and cities for the ownership and maintenance of these facilities.

No one disputes the value libraries bring to the community. The problem is that the
current library administration has pursued priorities that leave it unable to deliver
the services we expect. Tell the library administration to straighten out its priorities.
Vote No on Measure Y.

si Joanne B. Sanders	SONOMA	COUNTY	TAXPAYERS’	ASSOCIATION

Former Library Commissioner si Dan Drummond, Executive Director

49-592

9756

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE Y

Measure Y is the third of three county tax increases on this ballot. Like Measures J
and L for parks and tourists, and last year’s Measure A for roads, all of these tax
increases result from the county’s refusal to tackle its pension problem. None of
these tax increases would be necessary if county supervisors would address the
pension crisis. As the Independent Citizens Pension Advisory Committee reports,
$269 million that could have been used for libraries, parks and roads has been lost
over the past ten years due to excess pension costs.

Libraries are funded through property taxes. As property tax revenues declined
during the recession, so too did the libraries’ funding forcing the library commission
to reduce its operating hours. But the economy has improved since then, property
tax revenues are on the rise and the libraries now receive more property tax
revenue than they did prior to the recession. So why is a new tax necessary to
restore operating hours? Quite simply, and contrary to what supporters of Measure
Y will tell you, restoring hours just isn’t the priority they say it is and they have spent
the money for other purposes.

Rather than restoring branch hours, the library commission handed out raises to its
staff, raises that were based on a defective salary survey that compared salaries
only without looking at other compensatory benefits like pensions and health care.
They gave their newly hired director a raise. They created new positions such as a
new public outreach director and administrative aides. They hired consultants to
market this very tax proposal. They also made some worthwhile decisions to
upgrade IT systems and open the new Roseland branch. They did not, however,
restore operating hours.

New taxes simply aren’t the answer. Please vote No on Measure Y.

si Joanne B. Sanders	SONOMA COUNTY TAXPAYERS’ ASSOCIATION

Former Library Commissioner si Dan Drummond, Executive Director

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE Y

The No on Measure Y argument has it all wrong. The need for Measure Y’s pro-
posed 1/8-cent sales tax has zero connection to the County of Sonoma’s pension
issue. The Sonoma County Library (SCL) is neither operated, nor controlled by,
Sonoma County Supervisors and is not part of the County’s budget or pension
program.

SCL is a separate joint powers association overseen by 11 commissioners ap-
pointed by local cities and the County. The Library’s funding was established in
1975 and remains at 22.5 cents per $1,000 of assessed property value. No addi-
tional monies come from the County or the cities.

Rising costs and flat property values impacted libraries well before the Great
Recession: vacancies were left unfilled; infrastructure was crumbling; expansion
plans were put on hold. When the recession hit, staff and salaries were cut, bene-
fits and pensions were flat, and service hours were reduced.

The last two years have seen modest increases in property tax revenues which
have been put to good use patching holes in our infrastructure, expanding
much-needed service to Roseland, and filling some critical vacancies. This small
percent uptick in revenues, however, has not been enough to pay the costs of re-
opening our libraries on Monday, buying more books for children, and providing the
other basic public library services listed in this measure.

This sales tax collects $1.25 for every $1,000.00 of goods taxed. It’s a very small
price to pay for a modern library. Support your local library with a Yes vote on
Measure Y.

si Helena D. Whistler
Chair, Sonoma County Library Commission

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE Y

ORDINANCE NO. 1

AN ORDINANCE OF THE
SONOMA COUNTY LIBRARY IMPOSING A TRANSACTIONS AND USE (SALES) TAX

TO BE

ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION TO MAINTAIN,
RESTORE AND ENHANCE LIBRARY SERVICES
(4/5 VOTE REQUIRED)

Section 1. TITLE. This ordinance shall be known as the Sonoma County
Library Maintenance, Restoration and Enhancement Act. The Sonoma County
Library, a joint powers agency, hereinafter shall be called “Library.” This ordinance
shall be applicable in the incorporated and unincorporated territory of the County of
Sonoma. The County of Sonoma shall hereafter be called “County.” If approved
by the voters, this Ordinance will impose a one-eighth of one percent (0.125%)
transactions and use tax to be used exclusively to supplement existing funding for
library operations, maintaining and enhancing library hours, programs, acquisitions,
construction and modernization throughout the incorporated and unincorporated
territory of the County.

Section 2. OPERATIVE DATE. “Operative Date” means the first day of the
first calendar quarter commencing more than 110 days after the election approving
the imposition of the tax imposed by this ordinance, such election to be held on
November8,2016. The Operative Date shall be April 1,2017.

Section 3. PURPOSE. This ordinance is adopted to achieve the following,
among other purposes, and directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted in
order to accomplish those purposes:

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the provisions
of Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, Section 7285.5 of Revenue and Taxation Code, Government
Code section 6508 and sections II.B(8) and VI.A(5) of the First Amended and
Restated Joint Powers Agreement for the County-Wide Provision of Library Services
which authorizes the Library to adopt this tax ordinance to fund library operations,
maintain and enhance library hours, programs and purposes described in the
attached Expenditure Plan. This ordinance shall be operative if two-thirds (2/3) of
the electors voting on the measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax at an
election called for that purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates provisions
identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California insofar as
those provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and limitations
contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax and
provides a measure therefor that can be administered and collected by the State
Board of Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and
requires the least possible deviation from, the existing statutory and administrative
procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization in administering and
collecting the California State Sales and Use Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be administered
in a manner that will be, to the greatest degree possible, consistent with the provisions
of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of
collecting the transactions and use taxes, and at the same time, minimize the
burden of record keeping upon persons subject to taxation under the provisions of
this ordinance.

Section 4. USE OF THE TAX: EXPENDITURE PLAN. After the reimbursement
for the costs of the election, as provided in Section 15, and payment for any fee
charged by the State Board of Equalization for preparing to administer the tax,
revenues from the tax shall be deposited into a special fund and used exclusively
to fund projects and purposes described in the Expenditure Plan, attached hereto.
Such revenues shall be used only to supplement existing Library funding, provided

CONT. NEXT PAGE

49-593

9756

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE Y, CONT.

by a portion of the property tax designated for Library purposes, and shall not be
used to supplant existing funding for the support of the Library.

Section 5. CONTRACT WITH STATE. Prior to the operative date, the Library
shall contract with the State Board of Equalization to perform all functions incident
to the administration and operation of this transactions and use tax ordinance;
provided, that if the Library shall not have contracted with the State Board of Equal-
ization prior to the operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract and in such a
case the operative date shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter following
the execution of such a contract.

Section 6. TRANSACTIONS TAX RATE. For the privilege of selling tangible
personal property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated
and unincorporated territory of the County at the rate of one-eighth of one percent
(0.125%) of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible personal
property sold at retail in said territory on and after the operative date of this
ordinance.

Section 7. PLACE OF SALE. For the purposes of this ordinance, all retail
sales are consummated at the place of business of the retailer unless the tangible
personal property sold is delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state
destination or to a common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination. The
gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery charges, when such charges
are subject to the state sales and use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery
is made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the State or
has more than one place of business, the place or places at which the retail sales
are consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations to be pre-
scribed and adopted by the State Board of Equalization.

Section 8. USE TAX RATE. An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage,
use or other consumption in the County of tangible personal property purchased
from any retailer on and after the operative date of this ordinance for storage, use
or other consumption in said territory at the rate of one-eighth of one percent
(0.125%) of the sales price of the property. The sales price shall include delivery
charges when such charges are subject to state sales or use tax regardless of the
place to which delivery is made.

Section 9. ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW. Except as other-
wise provided in this ordinance and except insofar as they are inconsistent with the
provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the
provisions of Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a part of this ordinance as
though fully set forth herein.

Section 10. LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF STATE LAW AND COLLECTION
OF USE TAXES. In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the
taxing agency, the name of the Sonoma County Library shall be substituted therefor.
However, the substitution shall not be made when:

1.	The word “State" is used as a part of the title of the State
Controller, State Treasurer, Victim Compensation and Government Claims Board,
State Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or the Constitution of the State of
California;

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken
by or against the Library or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by
or against the State Board of Equalization, in performing the functions incident to
the administration or operation of this Ordinance.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sec-
tions referring to the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the result
of the substitution would be to:

a. Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain
sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property which
would not otherwise be exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other

consumption remain subject to tax by the State under the provisions of Part 1 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

b. Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use
or other consumption of tangible personal property which would not be subject to
tax by the state under the said provision of that code.

4.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof),
6711, 6715, 6737, 6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

B.	The word “County” shall be substituted for the word “State” in
the phrase “retailer engaged in business in this State” in Section 6203 and in the
definition of that phrase in Section 6203.

Section 11. PERMIT NOT REQUIRED. If a seller’s permit has been issued to
a retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional
transactor’s permit shall not be required by this ordinance.

Section 12. EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and
the use tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California
or by any city, city and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform
Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the amount of any state-administered transactions
or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of trans-
actions tax the gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum
products, to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the
County in which the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of such air-
craft as common carriers of persons or property under the authority of the laws of
this State, the United States, or any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the County which is
shipped to a point outside the County, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery
to such point by the retailer or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for
shipment to a consignee at such point. For the purposes of this paragraph, delivery
to a point outside the County shall be satisfied:

a.	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles)
subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of
Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411
of the Public Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels registered under Division
3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration to an
out-of-County address and by a declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the
buyer, stating that such address is, in fact, his or her principal place of residence;
and

b.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a
place of business out-of-County and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed
by the buyer, that the vehicle will be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated
to furnish the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to
the operative date of this ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing
sale of such property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to
lease the property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of this
ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section,
the sale or lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated
pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract
or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice,
whether or not such right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this ordinance,
the storage, use orotherconsumptioninthis County of tangible personal property:

CONT. NEXT PAGE

49-594

9756

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE Y, CONT.

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a
transactions tax underany state-administered transactions and use tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators
of aircraft and used or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in
the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property for hire or
compensation under a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued
pursuant to the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign government. This
exemption is in addition to the exemptions provided in Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a
fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this
ordinance.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over,
the tangible personal property arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase
of such property for any period of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the
property for an amount fixed by a lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section,
storage, use, or other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or
power over, tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursu-
ant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or
lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice,
whether or not such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in
business in the County shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of
tangible personal property, unless the retailer ships or delivers the property into the
County or participates within the County in making the sale of the property, including,
but not limited to, soliciting or receiving the order, either directly or indirectly, at a
place of business of the retailer in the County or through any representative, agent,
canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the County under the authority of the
retailer.

7.	“A retailer engaged in business in the County” shall also in-
clude any retailer of any of the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuantto
Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, air-
craft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or un-
documented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section
9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to collect use tax from any
purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in
the County.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit
against that tax any transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to
a County imposing, or retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code with respect to the sale to the person
of the property the storage, use or other consumption of which is subject to the use
tax.

Section 13. AMENDMENTS. All amendments subsequent to the effective date
of this ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating
to sales and use taxes and which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 and
Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically
become a part of this ordinance, provided however, that no such amendment shall
operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this ordinance.

Section 14. ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN. No injunction or writ
of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit, action or
proceeding in any court against the State or the Library, or against any officer of the
State or the Library, to prevent or enjoin the collection under this ordinance, or Part
1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax
required to be collected.

Section 15. ELECTION COSTS. Payment for the costs of the election shall
be the responsibility of the Library. If the election is successful, the Library shall be
reimbursed for the cost of the election from the proceeds of the tax.

Section 16. ADOPTION OF EXPENDITURE PLAN AND ACCOUNTABILITY
FOR EXPENDITURE OF PROCEEDS OF THE TAX. The Library Commission
hereby adopts the Expenditure Plan as set forth in this ordinance. After the
reimbursement of the Library for the costs of the election, as provided in Section
15, and payment for any fee charged by the State Board of Equalization for preparing
to administer the tax, proceeds of the tax imposed by this ordinance shall be placed
in a special account, and shall be spent only to implement the projects set forth in
the Expenditure Plan. The Library Commission shall establish an 11 member Citizen
Oversight Committee to annually review expenditures and appropriations of the tax
revenues to ensure that all such revenues are spent or appropriated for the purposes
and uses set forth in the Expenditure Plan. Each member of the Library Commission
shall appoint one member of the Committee who shall have a term coinciding with the
term of the appointing Library Commission member. The Committee shall receive the
assistance of Library staff and shall issue an annual public report on the expenditures
and appropriations of the tax revenues.

Section 17. ANNUAL REPORT. The Library Commission shall annually
cause to be prepared a report setting forth (a) the amount of funds collected and
expended; and (b) the status of any projects authorized to be funded in the
Expenditure Plan adopted by the Library in Section 16 herein.

Section 18. INCREASE IN APPROPRIATIONS LIMIT. The appropriations
limit of the Sonoma County Library shall be increased by the anticipated amount of
revenue generated by the tax to allow spending of the tax for the period allowed by
law.

Section 19. COMPLIANCE WITH CALIFORNIA ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY
ACT (CEQA). Pursuant to the State CEQA Guidelines section 15378(b)(4),
adoption of this retail transactions and use tax ordinance and Expenditure Plan is
not a “project” subject to the requirements of CEQA. Prior to commencement of
any project included in the Expenditure Plan, any necessary environmental review
required by CEQA shall be completed.

Section 20. SEVERABILITY. If any provision of this ordinance or the application
thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the ordinance
and the application of such provision to other persons or circumstances shall not
be affected thereby.

Section 21. EFFECTIVE DATE. This ordinance relates to the levying and
collecting of the Library transactions and use taxes and shall take effect on Novem-
ber 8,2016 after certification of the vote, if the measure is approved by two-thirds of
the electors voting on the measure at the election held that day.

Section 22. TERMINATION DATE. The authority to levy the tax imposed by
this ordinance shall expire ten (10) years from the operative date of this ordinance.

PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Library Commission for the Sonoma County Li-
brary in the County of Sonoma, State of California, on July 18,2016, by the follow-
ing vote:

AYES:	Tim May, Helena Whistler, Linda Garcia, Reece Foxen, Paul Grill,

David Ebright, Paul Heavenridge, Randall Neff, Hilary Smith,
Barbara Mackenzie
NOES:	None

ABSENT: Joanne Sanders

si Helena D. Whistler
Chairperson

Attest:

si Brett W. Lear
Secretary

CONT. NEXT PAGE

49-595

9756

VOTER’S PAMPHLET MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS  (whichever is applicable to your ballot)  Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.	
FULL TEXT OF MEASURE Y, CONT.  EXPENDITURE PLAN  A.	Proceeds from tax shall be deposited into the County Treasury in a separate, special fund which can only be used to maintain, restore and enhance Library services, materials and facilities in Sonoma County (hereinafter the “Fund”), and not for other purposes.  B.	The revenues collected from the tax shall be used only to supplement existing revenue collected for the Library and shall not be used to supplant existing Library funding.  C.	Monies deposited into the Fund, together with any interest that accrues thereon, shall be used exclusively for library purposes, including maintaining the existing libraries; reversing the deterioration in services at existing libraries, upgrading of facilities, services and collections and to support libraries in the cities of Cloverdale, Healdsburg, Petaluma, Rohnert Park, Cotati, Santa Rosa, Sebastopol, Sonoma, the Town of Windsor, and libraries and library services in the unincorporated areas of the county. Expenditures are intended to provide the residents of Sonoma County with vital, quality libraries comparable to those operated in other Bay Area communities.  D.	Based on feedback received from residents throughout Sonoma County on their priorities for local libraries, the Sonoma County Library Commission has determined the following library service and facility needs to be essential community priorities to be addressed with the proceeds from this Fund. Specific library services and projects for which the revenues from the transactions and use tax may be expended are as follows:  a.	Supporting library collections, educational programs, and classes for Sonoma County’s school age and pre-school children.  1.	Maintain children’s book and material collections;  2.	Continue reading clubs for children and teens to encourage reading;  3.	Maintain children’s classes and services;  4.	Provide educational programs, including teen homework help, and computer labs;  5.	Maintain children’s story times;  6.	Provide computer labs/classes at all libraries.  b.	Improving access to local libraries - one of the few places left in the community that benefit everyone-and maintaining library collections.  1.	Keep qualified librarians;  2.	Expand senior and disabled services;  3.	Restore and enhance library hours;  4.	Maintain book, material and digital collections;  5.	Extend library service to underserved communities;  6.	Keep the new Roseland Library from being closed.  c.	Maintaining aging library facilities - many of which are over forty years old - to make them safe, clean and welcoming.  1.	Maintain library facilities;  2.	Provide safe places for children after school;  3.	Keep libraries safe and clean;  4.	Provide computer labs, updated technology, and WiFi at all libraries.  E.	As provided in sections 4,15 and 16 of the Ordinance imposing this transactions and use tax, funds from the tax may be used to reimburse the Library for the share of the cost of conducting the election allocated to this measure, and to pay any fee imposed by the State Board of Equalization to administer tax collection.	