CITY OF ORLAND
RESOLUTION NO. 2016-09

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF ORLAND

(1)	CALLING AND GIVING NOTICE OF A MUNICIPAL ELECTION TO BE HELD
NOVEMBER 8, 2016 TO SUBMIT TO THE VOTERS A QUESTION CONCERNING
THE ENACTMENT OF A ONE HALF OF ONE PERCENT (1/2%) TRANSACTIONS
AND USE TAX TO BE IMPLEMENTED AS A GENERAL TAX; (2)
REQUESTING THAT THE GLENN COUNTY BOARD OF SUPERVISORS APPROVE
CONSOLIDATION OF THE CITY’S MUNICIPAL ELECTION WITH THE COUNTY-
ADMINISTERED STATEWIDE GENERAL ELECTION OF THE SAME DATE; (3)
REQUESTING THAT THE GLENN COUNTY CLERK RENDER SPECIFIC SERVICES
AND CONSOLIDATED ELECTION SERVICES TO THE CITY RELATED
TO THE CONDUCT OF THE CITY’S MUNICIPAL ELECTION; AND (4) SETTING
ELECTION PROCEDURES FOR THE FILING OF WRITTEN ARGUMENTS AND
REBUTTALS REGARDING THE MEASURE AND DIRECTING
THE CITY ATTORNEY TO PREPARE AN IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

WHEREAS, the City Council (Council) of the City of Orland (City), within the County
of Glenn, California (County), desires to place a ballot measure before the voters at the
November 8,2016 election to adopt a Transactions and Use Tax (Sales Tax) Ordinance (the
“Ordinance”), as authorized by California Revenue and Taxation Code section 7285.9; and,

WHEREAS, the Ordinance imposes a 1/2 cent transactions and use tax to be collected in
the manner set forth in the Ordinance, and deposited into the General Fund for general municipal
purposes; and,

WHEREAS, in order for the Sales Tax to become effective, it must be approved by a
simple majority of the electorate of the City; and,

WHEREAS, the Council is authorized to request and order that this election be
consolidated with other elections to be held on the same day and in the same territory (California
Elections Code 10400 et seq.); and,

WHEREAS, the City Council has agreed to submit to the voters a question relating to
approval of Ordinance No. 2016-05, adding Chapter 3.10 to the Orland Municipal Code
regarding a transactions and use tax to be administered by the State Board of Equalization upon
adoption by the voters; and,

WHEREAS, on May 2, 2016 the Council held a public hearing and introduced
Ordinance No. 2016-05, adding Chapter 3.10 to the Orland Municipal Code; and,

WHEREAS, on May 16, 2016 the Council adopted the Ordinance adding Chapter 3.10
to the Orland Municipal Code, subject to voter approval; and,

Resolution Calling for Election: November, 2016 (06 01 16)

Page 1.

WHEREAS, the tax provided for by the proposed Ordinance shall be enacted solely to
raise revenue for general purposes and shall be placed into the City’s General Fund, and is not
intended for regulation; and,

WHEREAS, the City Council desires, on its own motion, to submit to the qualified
voters of the City at the General Municipal Election on November 8, 2016 a question relating to
the imposition of a one-half cent transactions and use tax for general purposes; and,

WHEREAS, to minimize the expense of conducting the election, the City
Council desires to consolidate this election with a statewide election.

NOW, THEREFORE, the City Council of the City of Orland, California, does declare,
determine, resolve and order as follows:

SECTION 1: The foregoing recitals are true and correct, and this Council so finds and
determines.

SECTION 2: That, pursuant to the requirements of the laws of the State of California
relating to General Law Cities, there is called and ordered to be held in the City of Orland,
California, on Tuesday, November 8, 2016, a municipal election.

SECTION 3: That, pursuant to Elections Code section 10403, the City of Orland hereby
requests to the Glenn County Board of Supervisors that this municipal election be consolidated
with the statewide election of Tuesday, November 8, 2016.

SECTION 4: That notice of the holding of said election is hereby given and the City
Clerk and the County Elections Official are authorized, instructed and directed to give further
and/or additional notice of the election in the time, form and manner as required by law.

SECTION 5: That the Board of Supervisors of the County of Glenn is hereby requested
to consent and agree to permit the Glenn County elections official to render specified services to
the City of Orland relating to the conduct of an election as set forth herein pursuant to Elections
Code section 10002.

SECTION 6: That the Board of Supervisors of the County of Glenn is hereby requested
to consent and agree to the consolidation of said election with the statewide general election
taking place on said date pursuant to Elections Code section 10403.

SECTION 7: That, pursuant to the requirements of the laws of the State of California
relating to General Law Cities, the City Council does order submitted to the voters at the
municipal election the following question:

YES □
NO □

Page 2.

City of Orland Public Services Tax Measure

To support and fund the Orland Volunteer Fire Department; replace and
maintain Orland Fire Department first responder and emergency equipment, and
maintain and support other general funded City services, shall the City of Orland
enact a 1/2 cent (0.5%) sales tax increase by adopting Ordinance No. 2016-05,
with all money for Orland and for Orland purposes, no money for Sacramento,
and published annual audits?

SECTION 8: That the foregoing question requires the approval of a simple majority of
those casting votes at the municipal election called for November 8, 2016. The City further
requests the following letter designations for the ballot measure in order of preference: “A”; “O”;
and “S.”

SECTION 9: That the text of the ordinance submitted to the voters for approval is
attached as Exhibit A; the City Council hereby approves this Ordinance, the form thereof, and its
submission to the voters of the City at the November 8, 2016 election, as required by Revenue
and Taxation Code section 7285.9; the Ordinance specifies that the rate of the transactions tax
shall be one-half of one percent (0.5%) of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all
tangible personal property sold at retail in the City and specifies that the rate of the use tax shall
be one-half of one percent (0.5%) of the sales price of tangible personal property stored, used or
otherwise consumed in the City; and that the State Board of Equalization shall collect the tax
from retailers subject to the tax and remit the funds to the City.

SECTION 10: That should the question set forth in SECTION 7 be approved by the
requisite vote, the ordinance described in SECTION 9 shall be enacted, effective and adopted.
The City Council shall timely certify the election results following the municipal election and if
it is confirmed that the question set forth in SECTION 7 has been approved by a simple majority
of the voters, the City Council shall affirm its adoption and the same shall take effect in the
manner prescribed therein and within the timeframe prescribed by law. Upon voter approval and
concomitant City Council certification of the vote, the Ordinance described in SECTION 9 shall
be codified as Chapter 3.10 of the Orland Municipal Code. If upon certification of the votes cast
following the November 8, 2016 municipal election it is determined that the question set forth in
SECTION 7 did not receive a simple majority of votes cast, the ordinance shall not be approved
and the transactions and use tax set forth therein shall not take effect.

SECTION 11: That the City Council hereby directs the City Clerk to transmit a copy of
the Ordinance described in SECTION 9 to the City Attorney. The City Attorney shall prepare an
impartial analysis of the measure, not to exceed 500 words in length, showing the effect of the
Ordinance on the existing law and the operation of the measure, and shall transmit that impartial
analysis to the City Clerk.

SECTION 12: That arguments for or against the ballot measure set forth in SECTION 7
shall be submitted as provided by the Glenn County elections official and the City Clerk.

SECTION 13: That the City Council adopts the provisions of Elections Code section
9285(a) to permit rebuttal arguments, if arguments have been filed in favor or against the ballot
measure.

SECTION 14: That the City will reimburse the County for the actual cost incurred in
conducting the election.

SECTION 15: That the City acknowledges that the consolidated election will be held
and conducted in the manner prescribed in Section 10418.

Resolution Calling for Election: November, 2016 (06 01 16)

Page 3.

SECTION 16: That the ballots to be used at the election shall be in the form and content
as required by law.

SECTION 17: That the City Clerk and County Clerk are authorized, instructed and
directed to procure and furnish any and all official ballots, notices, printed matter and all
supplies, equipment and paraphernalia that may be necessary in order to property and lawfully
conduct the election.

SECTION 18: That the City Clerk is hereby directed to issue any instructions to the
County Elections Official to take any and all steps necessary for the holding of the election.

SECTION 19: That the polls for the election shall be open at seven o’clock (7:00) a.m.
of the day of the election and shall remain open continuously from that time under eight o’clock
(8:00) p.m. of the same day when the polls shall be closed, pursuant to Elections Code Section
10242, except as provided in Section 14401 of the Elections Code of the State of California.

SECTION 20: That the County Elections Official is authorized to canvass the return of
said election. The election shall be held in all respects as if there were only one election, and
part and parcel of the Glenn County administered statewide general election of the same date,
and only one form of ballot shall be used.

SECTION 21: That in all particulars not recited in this resolution, the election shall be
held and conducted as provided by law for holding municipal elections.

SECTION 22: That notice of the time and place of holding the election is given and the
City Clerk is authorized, instructed and directed to give further or additional notice of the
election, in time, form and manner as required by law.

SECTION 23: That the City Clerk shall certify to the passage and adoption of this
Resolution and enter it into the book of original Resolutions.

SECTION 24: That the Clerk of the City is hereby authorized and directed to cause to be
delivered and filed, no later than August 12, 2016 (which date is not fewer than 88 days prior to
the date set for the statewide election), one certified copy of this Resolution to the Elections
Official of the County of Glenn and one certified copy of this Resolution to the Board of
Supervisors of the County of Glenn.

Resolution Calling for Election: November, 2016 (06 01 16)

Page 4.

PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of Orland this 6th day of
June, 2016, by the following vote:

AYES: Councilmembers Gee, Edwards, Paschall, Vice Mayor Hoffman and
Mayor Bruce Roundy
NOES: None
ABSENT: None
ABSTAIN: None

C7

ATTEST:

Resolution Calling for Election: November, 2016 (06 01 16)

Page 5.

EXHIBIT A

CITY OF ORLAND

ORDINANCE NO. 2016-05

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF ORLAND ADDING
CHAPTER 3.10 TO THE ORLAND MUNICIPAL CODE REGARDING A
TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX TO BE ADMINISTERED BY THE
STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION UPON ADOPTION BY THE VOTERS

The People of the City of Orland, State of California do ordain as follows:

SECTION 1: Chapter 3.10 is hereby added to the Orland Municipal Code to read as follows:

Title 3 - REVENUE AND FINANCE

Chapter 3.10- Transactions and Use Tax

3.10.010 - Title and Applicability.

3.10.020 - Definitions.

3.10.030 - Purpose.

3.10.040 - Contract with State.

3.10.050 - Transaction Tax Rate.

3.10.060 - Place of Sale.

3.10.070 - Use Tax Rate.

3.10.080 - Adoption of Provisions of State Law.

3.10.090 - Limitations on Adoption of State Law and Collection of
Use Taxes.

3.10.100 - Permit not Required.

3.10.110 - Exemptions and Exclusions.

3.10.120 - Amendments.

3.10.130 - Enjoining Collection Prohibited.

3.10.140 - Annual Public Reports.

3.10.150 - Declaration.

3.10.160 - Election Date.

3.10.010 - Title and Applicability.

This Ordinance shall be known as the Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance. This Ordinance
shall be applicable in the incorporated territory of the City of Orland.

3.10.020 - Definitions.

The following words and phrases shall be defined as set forth in this Ordinance, except that any
term or phrase not defined in this Ordinance shall have the same meaning as that term or phrase
is defined in the California Revenue and Taxation Code, Division 2, Parts 1.6 and 1.7:

Transaction and Use Tax (04 26 16)

Page 1.

(a)	“Chapter” means this Chapter 3.10 of the Orland Municipal Code, codifying the
Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance.

(b)	“City” means the City of Orland.

(c)	“Operative Date” means the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing
more than 110 days after the adoption of this Ordinance, November 8, 2016,
pursuant to Taxation and Revenue Code Section 7265. The provisions of this
Ordinance shall not take effect until the operative date.

(d)	“Ordinance” means the Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance.

(e)	“State” means the State of California.

3.10.030 - Purpose.

This Ordinance, codified in this Chapter, is adopted to achieve the following, among other
purposes, and the Ordinance shall be interpreted liberally in order to accomplish those purposes:

(a)	To maintain and preserve City of Orland General Fund public safety services,
including fire suppression, acquisition and maintenance of fire protection
equipment, support and training for fire personnel, capital equipment needs for
police protection and public works, and other safety related services within and
for the City.

(b)	To impose a retail transaction and use tax in to be applied throughout the entire
territory of the City to the fullest extent permitted by law and accordance with the
provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code (the “Transactions and Use Tax Law”) and Section
7285.9 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 which authorizes the City to adopt this general
tax ordinance if a majority of the electors voting on the measure vote to
approve the imposition of the tax at an election called for that purpose.

(c)	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates provisions
identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California
(contained in Part 1 (commencing with Revenue and Taxation Code Section
6001) insofar as those provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and
limitations contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

(d)	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax and
provides a measure that can be administered and collected by the State

Board of Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and
requires the least possible deviation from, the existing statutory and
administrative procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization in
administering and collecting the California State Sales and Use Taxes.

Transaction and Use Tax (04 26 16)

Page 2.

(e)	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be administered in a
manner that will be, to the greatest degree possible, consistent with the provisions
of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of
collecting the transactions and use taxes and, at the same time, minimize the
burden of record keeping upon persons subject to taxation under the provisions of
this Ordinance.

(f)	To adopt by reference the provisions of Revenue and Taxation Code Sections
7261 and 7262, as now in effect or as later amended, as deemed by so deemed by
Revenue and Taxation Code section 7262.2.

(g)	To provide transactions and use tax revenue to the City to be used for the general
governmental purposes of the City, with any transactions and use tax revenue
received being placed into the City’s general fund.

3.10.040 - Contract with State.

Prior to the operative date, the City shall contract with the State Board of Equalization to
perform all functions incident to the administration and operation of this transactions and use tax
ordinance; provided, that if the City shall not have contracted with the State Board of
Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract and in such case the
operative date shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter following the execution of such
contract.

3.10.050 - Transactions Tax Rate.

For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a transactions tax is hereby
imposed upon all retailers in the incoiporated territory of the City at the rate of one-half of one
percent (0.50%) of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible personal
property sold at retail within the territory of the City on and after the operative date of this
ordinance.

“Transaction” or “transactions” as used in this Chapter shall have the same meaning respectively
as the words “sale” or “sales,” and the word “transactor” as used in this part has the same
meaning as “seller,” as “sale” or “sales” and “seller” are used in Part 1 (commencing with
Section 6001) of this division.

This rate is in addition to any sales, transaction and use tax rate previously adopted by the City.
3.10.060-Place of Sale.

For the purposes of this Ordinance, all retail sales are consummated at the place of business of
the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is delivered by the retailer or his, her or its
agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state
destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery charges, when such

Transaction and Use Tax (04 26 16)

Page 3.

charges are subject to the state sales and use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is
made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the State or has more than
one place of business, the place or places at which the retail sales are consummated shall be
determined under rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the State Board of
Equalization.

3.10.070-UseTax Rate.

An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other consumption in the City of tangible
personal property purchased from any retailer on and after the operative date of this Ordinance
for storage use or other consumption in the territory of the City at the rate of one-half of one
percent (0.50%) of the sales price of the property. The sales price shall include delivery charges
when such charges are subject to State sales or use tax regardless of the place to which delivery
is made.

This rate is in addition to any sales, transaction and use tax rate previously adopted by the City.
3.10.080 - Adoption of Provisions of State Law.

Except as otherwise provided in this Ordinance, and except insofar as they are consistent with
the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the provisions
of Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are
hereby adopted and made a part of this Ordinance as thought frilly set forth herein.

3.10.090 - Limitations on Adoption of State Law and Collection of Use Taxes.

In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code:

(a)	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the
name of the City shall be substituted therefor. However, the substitution shall not
be made when:

(1)	The word “State” is used as a part of the title of the State Controller, State
Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Board of Equalization, State
Treasury, or the Constitution of the State of California.

(2)	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or
against this City, or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than
by or against the State Board of Equalization in performing the functions
incident to the administration or operation of this Chapter.

(3)	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sections
referring to the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the
result of the substitution would be to:

Transaction and Use Tax (04 26 16)

Page 4.

A.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales,
storage, use or other consumption of tangible, personal property
which would not otherwise be exempt from this tax while such
sales, storage, use or other consumption remain subject to tax by
the State under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code; or,

B.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other
consumption of tangible personal property which would not be
subject to tax by the state under the provision of that code.

(4)	In Sections 6701,6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711, 6715,
6737, 6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

(b)	The word “City” shall be substituted for the word “State” in the phrase “retailer
engaged in business in this State” in Revenue and Taxation Code Section 6203
and in the definition of that phrase in Revenue and Taxation Code Section 6203.

3.10.100 - Permit Not Required.

If a seller’s permit has been issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation

Code, an additional transactor’s permit shall not be required by this ordinance.

3.10.110 Exemptions and Exclusions.

(a)	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the use tax
the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State or by any city, city
and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and
Use Tax Law (Part 1.5 (commencing with Section 7200)) or the amount of any
state-administered transactions or use tax.

(b)	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax the
gross receipts from all of the following:

(1)	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum products,
to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the
county in which the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of
such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property under the
authority of the laws of the State, the United States, or any foreign
government.

(2)	Sales of property to be used outside the City, which is shipped to a point
outside the City, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to that point
by the retailer or his or her agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier
for shipment to a consignee at such point. For purposes of this subsection,
“delivery” to a point outside the City shall be satisfied:

A. With respect to “delivery” of vehicles (other than commercial
vehicles) subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1

Transaction and Use Tax (04 26 16)

Page 5.

(commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle
Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the
Public Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels registered under
Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code
by registration to an out-of-City address and by a declaration under
penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that the address is,
in fact, his or her principal place of residence.

B. With respect to “delivery” of commercial vehicles, by registration
to a place of business out-of-City and a declaration under penalty
of peijury, signed by the buyer, that the vehicle will be operated
from that address.

(3)	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to furnish
the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to
the Operative Date of this Ordinance.

(4)	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of that
property for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease
the property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the Operative Date
of this Ordinance.

(5)	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, the sale or
lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated
pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party
to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract
or lease upon notice, whether or not that right is exercised.

(c)	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this Ordinance, the storage, use

or other consumption in this City of tangible personal property all of the

following:

(1)	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a
transactions tax under any state-administered transactions and use tax
ordinance.

(2)	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of aircraft,
and used or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the
use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property for hire or
compensation under a certificate of public convenience and necessity
issued pursuant to the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign
government, is exempt from the use tax. This exemption is in addition to
the exemptions provided in Revenue and Taxation Code Sections 6366
and 6366.1.

(3)	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price
pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of the
this Ordinance.

Transaction and Use Tax (04 26 16)

Page 6.

(4)	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, tangible
personal property arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase of
such property for any period of time for which the lessee is obligated to
lease the property for an amount fixed by a lease entered into prior to the
Operative Date of this Ordinance.

(5)	For purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this subsection, the storage,
use, or other consumption of, or possession of, or exercise of any right or
power over, tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated
pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party
to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract
or lease upon notice, whether or not the right is exercised.

(6)	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in business in
the City shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of
tangible personal property, unless the retailer ships or delivers the property
into the City or participates within the City in making the sale of the
property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving the order,
either directly or indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer in the City
or through any representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or
person in the City under the authority of the retailer.

(7)	“A retailer engaged in business in the City” shall also include any retailer
of any of the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to
Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle
Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public
Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels registered under Chapter 2 of
Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That
retailer shall be required to collect use tax from any purchaser who
registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel or aircraft at an address in the City.

(d)	Any person subject to use tax under this Ordinance may credit against that tax or
any transactions tax, or to reimbursement for a transactions tax, paid to a district
or retailer in a district imposing a transactions and use tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code with respect to the sale to the
person of the property the storage, use or other consumption of which is subject to
the use tax.

3.10.120 - Amendments.

All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this Ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and which are not consistent with Part
1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6
and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically become apart
of this Ordinance; provided, however, that no such amendment shall operate so as to affect the
rate of tax imposed by this Ordinance.

The City Council or the City’s voters may amend this Ordinance to comply with applicable law
or as may be otherwise necessary to further the Ordinance’s stated purposes. However, as

Transaction and Use Tax (04 26 16)

Page 7.

required by Article XIII C of the California Constitution, no amendment to this Ordinance may
increase the rates of the taxes authorized by this Ordinance unless such amendment is submitted
and approved by the voters.

3.10.130 - Enjoining Collection Forbidden.

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit action
or proceeding in any court against the State or the City, or against any officer of the State or the
City, to prevent or enjoin the collection under this Ordinance, or part 1.6 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected under this
Ordinance.

3.10.140 - Annual Public Reports.

On or before each anniversary of the Operative Date, the City shall complete a study and
produce a report reviewing the collection, management and expenditure of revenue from the
Transaction and Use Tax and shall present a report explaining and providing an overview of the
same at an open and public meeting of the City Council. This report shall be a public document
and will be posted on the city website.

3.10.150- Declaration.

The proceeds of the taxes imposed by this Ordinance may be used for any lawful purpose of the
City, as authorized by ordinance, resolution or act of the City Council. These taxes are not
special taxes within the meaning of Section 1(d) of Article XIIIC of the California Constitution,
but are general taxes imposed for general government purposes.

3.10.160 - Election Date.

The date of election for approval of this Ordinance shall be November 8, 2016.

SECTION 2. SEVERABILITY.

If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, portion of the application thereof to any
person or circumstance of this Ordinance is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by
any court of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and
independent provision of such ordinance and shall not affect the validity of the remaining
portions thereof.

SECTION 3. PRECEDENCE.

Any provision of the Orland Municipal Code inconsistent with the provisions of this Ordinance,
to the extent of such inconsistency and no further, is hereby repealed or modified to the extent
necessary to effect the provisions of this Ordinance.

Transaction and Use Tax (04 26 16)

Page 8.

SECTION 4. CEOA COMPLIANCE.

The City Council finds and determines that the enactment of this Ordinance is not a “project” as
that term is used in the California Environmental Quality Act (“CEQA,” Cal. Pub. Resources
Code Section 21000, et seq.) or the State CEQA Guidelines (Cal. Code of Reg., Title 14, Section
15000, et seq.). Therefore, no environmental assessment is required or necessary.

SECTION 5. EFFECTIVE DATE.

This Ordinance relates to the levying and collecting of City transactions and use taxes and shall
take effect immediately upon its approval by the voters of the City. However, no tax imposed by
this Ordinance shall be effective unless that tax has been approved by the voters of the City as
required by section 2(b) of Article XIII C of the California Constitution and applicable law.

SECTION 6. DECLARATION.

The proceeds of the taxes imposed by this ordinance may be used for any lawful purpose of the
City, as authorized by ordinance, resolution or act of the City Council. These taxes are not
special taxes within the meaning of Section 1(d) of Article XIII C of the California Constitution,
but are general taxes imposed for general government purposes.

SECTION 7. EXECUTION.

The Mayor and City Clerk are authorized to subscribe this Ordinance where indicated below to
evidence and attest to its passage and approval upon Certification by the City Council of the
results of the election approving this Ordinance by the voters of the City.

PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of Orland, County of Glenn, State of
California, on this 16th day of May. 2016, by the following vote:

AYES: Councilmembers Gee, Edwards, Paschall, Vice Mayor Hoffman and
Mayor Roundy

NOES: None

ABSTAIN: None

Transaction and Use Tax (04 26 16)

Page 9.

I,	ANGELA CROOK, CITY CLERK, of the CITY OF ORLAND, hereby certify that
the attached is a true and correct copy of a Resolution duly made by the City
Council at a regular meeting of said City Council, at Orland, California, on the
6th day of June, 2016, the original of which is on file in my office and duly and
regularly entered in the official records of proceedings of the City Council of the
CITY OF ORLAND.