CITY OF MARTINEZ  "MARTINEZ ROAD IMPROVEMENT AND MAINTENANCE MEASURE D"	
To provide funding that stays in Martinez, to be used exclusively to improve and maintain the City's roadways, shall an ordinance which imposes a temporary, half-cent transaction and use (sales) tax for 15 years, providing an estimated $2.1 million annually, with citizens' oversight and annual audits, be adopted?	YES
	NO

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE D

This measure would approve an ordinance enacting a one half-cent (0.50%) temporary
transactions and use (sales) tax within the City of Martinez. The tax is a special tax requiring a
2/3 vote, with legal restrictions as to its use. The tax will be limited to funding road
improvements and maintenance in the City of Martinez in accordance with the Expenditure Plan
also proposed to be approved by the voters as a part of Measure D. The tax may not legally be
used for any other purpose.

The City is required to hold the funds from the tax in a separate account and prepare an annual
report which discloses the amount of funds collected and expended and the status of any project
funded with the proceeds of the tax. The tax ordinance requires the appointment of a Citizens’
Oversight Committee to review the expenditures of tax revenues. All meetings of the Citizens’
Oversight Committee must be conducted in public and comply with theprovisions of the Ralph
M. Brown Act (Government Code Section 34950 et seq.).

Certain necessities of life, including purchases of food or health related products such as
medicine, are exempt from the tax. If adopted, it will not go into effect until April 1, 2017 and
will expire on March 31, 2032.

Technically, the sales tax is a combination of “sales and use tax” and “transactions and use tax.”
Retailers collect both taxes at the time of sale and remit the funds to the State Board of
Equalization, which administers the taxes. Both are levied on the retail sale or use of personal
property, with certain exceptions. The special tax will be collected where the sale is made in
Martinez or where the goods are delivered and placed into use in Martinez. Merchandise
purchased in a “walk-in” retail store is assumed by the state to be used within the city in which
the store is located and is paid by both non-residents as well as residents, unless the retailer is
asked to ship the merchandise outside the city as part of the sale or it is a motor vehicle (which is
taxed based on the city of registered use).

State and local tax on retail sales and use in Martinez is currently 8.5% of the purchase price.
Due to the expiration of a temporary sales tax increase authorized by Proposition 30 of .25%
statewide on December 31, 2016, the passage Measure D, authorizing a 0.50% transactions and
use tax, would result in an increase of the total sales tax rate in Martinezto 8.75%. The revenue
from the tax increase proposed by Measure D would go only to the City, and not to the State or
any other governmental entity.

A "Yes" vote is a vote to approve the additional one-half cent tax for road improvements and
maintenance in MartinG2\with annual reporting and a Citizens' Oversight Committee. A "No"
vote is jffXote against the tax. A full copy of the ordinance is printed in these ballot materials.

Veronica A. FfNepbJ
Sr. Assistant City Attorney
City of Martinez

PRIMARY ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE D

Measure D provides local funding that stays under local control, exclusively for improving and
repairing roads in Martinez.

Yes on Measure D will:

•	Triple our current paving budget and put us on the path to dramatically improving our
roads, especially in our residential areas

•	Only cost shoppers 50C for every $100 dollars spent on taxable goods

•	Create safer conditions for children and pedestrians on neighborhood streets

•	Improve public safety and reduce auto damage

•	Automatically expire in 15 years

The revenue comes from a dedicated sales tax, which by law means the money can only be
used for the stated purpose. This means that 100% of the money will be used to improve and
repair roads in Martinez. Out-of-town shoppers who use our roads will pay their fair share.

The money will be spent in accordance with an annual Road Improvement Plan adopted by the
City Council in a noticed public meeting.

A Citizen's Oversight Committee will provide strict financial oversight and ensure all funds go
where they are supposed to - improving Martinez roads!

The City maintains over 121 miles of roads and has spent all available grants. Gas Tax and local
road funding - almost $15 million - on pavement projects since 2005. Despite these efforts,
the overall condition of Martinez roads ranks next to last compared to other cities in the
County, and among the worst in the entire Bay Area. Approval of Measure D will permit the
City to address many of our most critical road improvement needs while creating prevailing
wage jobs in Martinez.

Vote YES on Measure D to improve Martinez roads!

AnaMarie Avila Farias, Vice Mayor	Mark	Ross,	Councilmember

Exhibit A

City of Martinez

Road Improvement and Maintenance
Transactions and Use Tax Expenditure Plan for
Anticipated One-Half (0.50%) Percent
Transactions and Use Tax Revenue

The one-half percent (0.50%) transactions and use tax passed by the City of Martinez voters will be dedicated to
specific uses: road improvement and maintenance. The funds cannot, and will not, be used for any other purpose.
One hundred percent (100%) of the revenues generated by the new tax will be allocated to road improvement and
maintenance.

ROAD IMPROVEMENT AND MAINTENANCE

The City of Martinez street system consists of approximately 121.6 miles of streets and is composed of 938
pavement sections with an approximate network replacement value of $125 million.

The City enlisted Quality Engineering Solutions, Inc., (QES) in 2014 to conduct inspections of the City's pavement
network and complete an assessment of its condition. Based on the findings in the Pavement Management
Program (PMP) P-TAP 14 Budget Options Report issued by QES on March 16, 2015, the overall condition of the
City's street network is at a Pavement Condition Index (PCI) level of 51. This low overall score reflects a street
system a mere 2 points from being considered within the "Poor" category and places Martinez within the bottom
of the "At Risk" category as identified in the Metropolitan Transportation Commission (MTC) Pavement Condition
Index for Bay Area Jurisdictions, 2015 report. The "At Risk" category is defined as "deteriorated pavement
requiring immediate attention, including rehabilitative work." Furthermore, the MTC report shows that among the
19 cities within Contra Costa County, the condition of Martinez streets ranked next to last.

The City relies on a variety of funding sources to support its pavement program. The City remains committed to
pursue Federal and State funding whenever available to help support road improvements. Due to significant
declines in State Gas Tax revenues and the limited availability of paving grants for which the City is eligible,
however, the City's projected average annual pavement funding level from recurring annual sources (e.g. Measure
J and Gas Tax funding) within the 5-year Capital Improvement Program (CIP) is only $640,000. The City's Gas Tax
funding dedicated to maintenance is approximately $280,000 per year, resulting in a total average annual funding
level of approximately $920,000. The PMP report anticipated a current City investment level of $1 million per year.

Even at the higher annual funding level of $1 million, the City will not be able to prevent the further deterioration
of the current pavement condition and the PCI of the Martinez pavement network would decrease to a score of 44
after five years, according to the PMP report. Additionally, the City's deferred maintenance paving backlog would
jump from $36.6 million to $65.5 million.

Without the one-half percent (0.50%) transactions and use tax revenue, the City will be unable to accomplish its
task to maintain the streets at an adequate level to serve the traveling public. It is estimated that a one-half
percent (0.50%) special roads transactions and use tax will produce $2.1 million in revenues annually. This
additional funding will allow us to address critical paving projects in our roadway network. Roads selected for
improvement will be done pursuant to an annual public process. State law requires the City to prepare and adopt
an expenditure plan describing the specific projects for which the revenues from the tax may be expended.

The City of Martinez has prepared a proposed Road Improvement and Maintenance Transactions and Use Tax
Expenditure Plan for the next 15 years beginning in 2017 and going through March 31, 2032. Adherence to the
Expenditure Plan will be reviewed annually by the Citizen's Oversight Committee.

Exhibit A

City of Martinez Road Improvement and Maintenance Transactions and

Use Tax Expenditure Plan

0.50%, %$2.1M Annually

Annual Expenditure Program 2017 - 2032	
Activity	Estimated Expenditure (% of tax proceeds)
Road Improvement and Maintenance  •	Asphalt pavement overlay and rehabilitation projects  •	Pothole and surface repair  •	Pavement dig outs & asphalt overlays less than 1-inch  •	Full-depth reclamation, cold in-place asphalt recycling and other street reconstruction Best Management Practices  •	Paving and pavement rehabilitation project material testing and other quality assurance measures  •	Crack filling  •	Shoulder restoration  •	Pavement grinding, removal and replacement  •	Chip seals, micro-seals, slurry seals and other surface treatment  •	Re-striping, thermoplastic and/or painting and installation of pavement markers and reflectors  •	Graveling and grading on publicly maintained unpaved roads  •	Required curb ramps  •	Raising storm drain and/or street monument boxes to grade  •	Maintenance of street signs  •	Bridge deck and railing repair or replacement  •	Rock rip-rap protections  •	Maintenance equipment lease, rental, or purchase  •	Road construction equipment rental, lease, purchase  •	Road construction equipment repair  •	Road improvement and maintenance design, inspection, project management and administration costs  •	Road-related infrastructure improvements, such as repair or replacement of storm drains and drainage systems, bridges, public sidewalks and bicycle facilities	95%  % equivalent in $ $1,995,000
Matching Grant Funding  • Grant matching funds for street improvement projects	5%  % equivalent in $ $105,000