MEASURE A	YES

ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING SPECIAL PARCEL TAX FOR PUBLIC NO
SAFETY

To support local law enforcement activities, shall an ordinance be
adopted imposing an annual special parcel tax amounting to: (i)
$400/unit upon developed multi-family residences or apartments; (ii)
$500/unit upon all other developed parcels; (iii) $100/unit upon
developed parcels for senior citizens; (iv) $50/unit upon undeveloped
parcels for senior citizens; and (v) $100/parcel for all other
undeveloped parcels?

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF BALLOT MEASURE A RELATING
TO SPECIAL PARCEL TAX FOR PUBLIC SAFETY

On May 23, 2017, the City Council of the City of Mendota (“City”), adopted Resolution
17-31, submitting a ballot measure (“Measure A”) to the voters at a special all mail ballot
municipal election to be held on August 29, 2017. Measure A provides for the adoption of an
ordinance providing for the levy of an annual special parcel tax at the following rates: (i) $400
per unit upon developed multi-family residences or apartments; (ii) $500 per unit upon all other
developed parcels; (iii) $100 per unit upon developed parcels for senior citizens; (iv) $50 per unit
upon undeveloped parcels for senior citizens; and (v) $100 per parcel for all other undeveloped
parcels. The special parcel tax will be assessed to the owner of each parcel of real property
within the City, unless the owner is exempt from taxation, in which case, the special parcel tax
imposed will be assessed to the holder of the possessory interest in such parcel, unless such
holder is also by law exempt from taxation. The special parcel tax will be levied annually
commencing in 2018, and continue in perpetuity. Because some City residents within
Community Facilities District 2006-1 presently pay special taxes on property for the puipose of
providing police protection services that would be duplicative of the fees collected under the

pi L

JUN 13

FRFSNO CGlJlklY CLERK

2017

?DEPUTY

1

Measure, the City intends, upon enactment of the Measure, to dissolve Community Facilities
District 2006-1

The special parcel tax contemplated under Measure A is expected to generate an
additional $500,000-$ 1,000,000 in revenue. Funds received from Measure A will be strictly
used to fund local law enforcement activities. Proceeds of the special parcel tax will be
deposited in a special account, created and maintained by the City, and used for the specific
purposes identified in the Ordinance.

A “yes” vote is a vote in favor of authorizing the special parcel tax. A “no” vote is a vote
against authorizing the special parcel tax.

(Word Count: 335)

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure A. If you desire a copy of the
measure, please call the City Elections Official’s Office at (559) 655-3291 and a copy will be
mailed at no cost to you.

2



CITY OF MEN

“Cantaloupe Center Of The World” MAY 2 6 2017

.ERESNO COUNTY CLERK

CLERK’S CERTIFICATE

l> Matt Flood, City Clerk of the City of Mendota, State of California, do hereby
certify that the foregoing is a full, true and correct copy of Resolution No. 17-35 duly
approved and adopted by the City Council of the City of Mendota on the dates therein
stated and as appears on file in my office.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I hereunto set my hand and affix the seal of the City of
Mendota on May 30, 2017.



l\^tt Flood, City Clerk §



V'>

www.cityofmendota.com

BEFORE THE CITY COUNCIL
OF THE

CITY OF MENDOTA, COUNTY OF FRESl

MAY 2 6 2017
ERESNO COUNTY CLERK

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL	RESOLUTION	NO.	17-35

OF THE CITY OF MENDOTA REQUESTING

THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS TO RENDER

SPECIFIED SERVICES TO THE CITY OF

MENDOTA RELATING TO THE CONDUCT

OF THE ALL MAIL BALLOT ELECTION

TO BE HELD ON AUGUST 29, 2017:

ORDINANCE INCREASING THE SALES
AND USE TAX FOR PUBLIC SAFETY

WHEREAS, a special all mail ballot election is to be held in the City of Mendota
on August 29, 2017; and

WHEREAS, in the course of conducting the special election, it is necessary for
the City of Mendota to request services of the County of Fresno.

NOW THEREFORE the City Council of the City of Mendota does herby resolve,
declare, determine and order as follows:

Section 1. That pursuant to Section 10002 of the Elections Code of the State of
California, the Board of Supervisors of the County of Fresno is hereby requested to
permit the Registrar of Voters to render the following services to the City of Mendota,
and to the extent the County of Fresno directs the City of Mendota to perform such
services, in connection with the conduct of the special election to be held on August 29,
2017, to adopt an Ordinance Increasing the Sales and Use Tax for Public Safety:

a Prepare and furnish to the City of Mendota for use in conducting the election the
computer record of the names and addresses of all eligible registered voters in
the City of Mendota, to assist the City Clerk for the City of Mendota in conducting
an all-mail ballot election; and

» Tabulate and certify the results of the election pursuant to state law; and

« Make available to the City of Mendota additional election equipment and
assistance according to state law; and

o Print the official ballot; and

o Supervise and conduct the election; and

® Perform all acts necessary or incidental to the above functions as may be
requested from time-to-time by the City Clerk for the City of Mendota.

SECTION 2. That pursuant to Resolution No. 17-34, the City Council for the City of
Mendota has directed that this election be conducted as an all-mail ballot election.

SECTION 3. That the City of Mendota shall reimburse the County of Fresno for
services performed when the work is completed and upon presentation to the City of
Mendota a properly prepared invoice.

SECTION 4. That the City Clerk for the City of Mendota is directed to forward a certified
copy of this Resolution to the Clerk of the County of Fresno Board of Supervisors and
the Elections Department of the County of Fresno.

''"Rolando Castro, Mayor

ATTEST:

I, Matt Flood, City Clerk of the City of Mendota, do hereby certify that the foregoing
resolution was duly adopted and passed by the City Council at a special meeting of said
Council, held at the Mendota City Hall on the 23rd day of May, 2017, by the following
vote:

AYES:

NOES:

ABSENT:

ABSTAIN:

5 - Mayor Castro, Mayor Pro Tem Martinez, Councilors Mendoza,
Rosales, and Silva.

0

0

0

j^fatt Flood, City

CITY OF MEN

“Cantaloupe Center Of The World”

ERESNO COUNTY CLERK

CLERK’S CERTIFICATE

I, Matt Flood, City Clerk of the City of Mendota, State of California, do hereby
certify that the foregoing is a full, true and correct copy of Resolution No. 17-34 duly
approved and adopted by the City Council of the City of Mendota on the dates therein
stated and as appears on file in my office.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I hereunto set my hand and affix the seal of the City of
Mendota on May 30, 2017.

n

^iatf Flood, City Cldrk^7



T*TTO2i*|

www.cityofmendota.com



BEFORE THE CITY COUNCIL	ERESNQ	COUNTY	CLERK

OF THE

CITY OF MENDOTA, COUNTY OF FREo.mw

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL	RESOLUTION	NO.	17-34

OF THE CITY OF MENDOTA, CALIFORNIA,

ORDERING A SPECIAL ALL MAIL BALLOT
ELECTION TO BE CONDUCTED ON
AUGUST 29, 2017 TO ADOPT AN ORDINANCE
INCREASING THE SALES AND USE TAX
FOR PUBLIC SAFETY

WHEREAS, the City of Mendota (the “City”) has a duty to provide for the health,
safety and welfare of its residents and members of the public; and

WHEREAS, in 2009, the City of Mendota reestablished the Mendota Police
Department, and empowered it with the duty and responsibility to protect and serve the
community and citizens of Mendota; and

WHEREAS, allocated staffing of law enforcement officers in the Mendota Police
Department total twelve permanent full-time personnel; and

WHEREAS, since 2009, Mendota Police Officers have encountered subjects
claiming affiliation or association with known criminal gangs; and

WHEREAS, over the past several years, Mendota Police Officers have noticed
an increase in violent crimes associated with criminal gang-affiliated subjects; and

WHEREAS, criminal gang-affiliated subjects who reside or have been contacted
in the City of Mendota have been connected to locations within the State of California
and nationally where criminal activity is associated to them or their criminal gang; and

WHEREAS, the culture of criminal gangs includes criminal activity and the use of
intimidation or violence; and

WHEREAS, limited law enforcement resources has a profoundly negative impact
upon the health, safety and welfare of the community as a whole; and

WHEREAS, the City has reviewed its economic forecast and determined that
without additional revenue, the City will be unable to provide essential public safety
services at the level the citizens of the City deserve; and

WHEREAS, without additional funding, the City will have fewer police officers on
the street and will reduce gang and drug prevention programs; and

WHEREAS, California Revenue and Taxation Code section 7285.9 authorizes
the City to levy or increase a sales and use tax for special purposes by ordinance

MAY 2 6 2017

following approval by two-thirds of the City Council and a majority vote of the qualified
electors of the City voting in an election on the issue; and

WHEREAS, the funds provided from this increase will have strict accountability
provisions such as annual independent audits; and

WHEREAS, the City Council desires to submit to the voters of the City of
Mendota a ballot measure proposal to increase the existing rate of the Sales and Use
Tax; and

WHEREAS, increase of the Sales and Use Tax requires adoption of an
ordinance amending Section 3.12.020 of the Mendota Municipal Code defining the new
rate to be 1.980%; and

WHEREAS, the increased Sales and Use tax will be dedicated exclusively to
public safety; and

WHEREAS, the State Board of Equalization shall collect the tax from retailers
subject to the tax and remit the funds to the City; and

WHEREAS, any tax measure submitted to voters must be consolidated with a
regularly scheduled general election for members of City Council except in cases of
emergency as determined by a unanimous vote of the Council pursuant to article XIII C
of the Constitution; and

WHEREAS, the City desires to conduct the Public Safety Sales Tax Ballot
Measure (the “Measure”) through special election by mail ballot on August 29, 2017;
and

WHEREAS, the subject Measure is referred to herein as the “2017 Ordinance
Increasing the Sales and Use Tax for Public Safety”; and

WHEREAS, Section 2.40.020 of the Mendota Municipal Code authorizes the City
Council to conduct an all-mail ballot election under the terms and conditions set forth
therein; and

WHEREAS, section 4000, subdivision (c)(2) of the California Elections Code (the
"Elections Code") authorizes the City to conduct an election on a special tax measure
wholly by mail on an established mailed ballot election date; and

WHEREAS, an election by all-mail ballot is authorized here because the city has
fewer than 5,000 registered voters, and the tax contemplated herein is a special tax
within the meaning of Section 4 of Article XIIIA and Article XIIIC of the California
Constitution because it will be used for specific purposes; and

WHEREAS, the revenues raised by this tax are to be used solely for the
purposes of providing police protection services; and

WHEREAS, the City Council has held a public hearing after due notice regarding
the proposed authorization of the qualified special tax.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the City Council of the City of
Mendota as follows:

SECTION 1. The City Council submits to the voters of the City of Mendota at the
special municipal election to be held on August 29, 2017, a ballot measure for
increasing the Sales and Use Tax.

SECTION 2. The City Council requests of the Fresno County Board of
Supervisors that the election for this measure conducted by mail ballot on August 29,
2017, pursuant to Elections Code sections 4000 and 1500.

SECTION 3. The question to be submitted to the voters with respect to the ballot
measure shall be printed on the election ballot with the title and in the form set forth as
follows:

MEASURE B  ORDINANCE INCREASING THE SALES AND USE TAX FOR	YES
	NO
PUBLIC SAFETY	
To provide additional funding for local law enforcement services, shall the ordinance increasing the City’s Sales and Use Tax from .980% to 1.980% which will raise approximately $500,000 annually be adopted?	

SECTION 4. The following constitutes the synopsis of the measure to be voted
on for purposes of meeting the publication requirements of Elections Code Section

12111:

MEASURE TO BE VOTED ON

Notice is hereby given that the following measure is to be voted on at the special
municipal election to be held in the City of Mendota, on August 29, 2017.

ADOPTION OF ORDINANCE APPROVING INCREASE OF
TRANSACTIONS AND USE (SALES) TAX FROM
CURRENT RATE .980% TO 1.980% FOR PUBLIC
SAFETY.

The proposed ordinance would approve the increase of the City’s current
sales and use tax rate (.980%) by one percent (1.980%). The funds
raised through the one percent increase shall be dedicated to and
expended only for purposes of providing local law enforcement services.

The authority to levy the tax would continue in perpetuity. Otherwise, the
current sales tax ordinance would otherwise remain unchanged.

City Elections Official

Dated:_______________________

City of Mendota

SECTION 5. The full text of the ordinance submitted to the voters is attached as
Exhibit “A.” The full text of the proposed ordinance is not required to be printed in the
Sample Ballot and Voters Pamphlet. However, the full text of the measure shall be
made available at the Office of the Fresno County Clerk/Registrar of Voters and the
Mendota City Clerk's Office.

SECTION 6. Passage of this measure requires a two-thirds majority of votes.

SECTION 7. The City of Mendota requests that the Fresno County
Clerk/Registrar of Voters conduct the election and canvass the returns, and the City
consents to reimburse the Registrar of Voters for all costs incurred by said services.

SECTION 8. The City of Mendota also respectfully requests that the letter
designation “Measure B” be assigned to this Measure by the Registrar if such letter
designation is available.

SECTION 9. In all particulars not recited in this resolution, the election shall be
held and conducted as provided by law for holding municipal elections.

SECTION 10. Arguments in favor or against the proposed measure are
permissible and shall be filed with the Fresno County Clerk/Registrar in accordance with
Elections Code Section 9282. Mayor Castro and Mayor Pro Tern Victor Martinez are
authorized to prepare and file a written argument in favor of the proposed measure not
to exceed 300 words on behalf of the City Council. In the event that an argument is filed
against the Measure, they are also authorized to submit a rebuttal argument on behalf
of the City Council.

SECTION 11. The Fresno County Clerk/Registrar of Voters shall give the
appropriate notices for the election and shall conduct the election pursuant to
appropriate provisions of state law. The City of Mendota acknowledges the Fresno
County Clerk/Registrar may conduct the election in accordance with Elections Code
10418.

SECTION 12. The City Attorney shall prepare an impartial analysis of the
measure in accordance with Elections Code Section 9280 and file it with the Fresno
County Clerk/Registrar of Voters.

SECTION 13. The City Clerk shall file a certified copy of this resolution with the
Fresno County Clerk/Registrar of Voters as required by applicable law. The City Clerk is

hereby authorized and directed to work with the Fresno County Clerk/Registrar of
Voters and take all steps necessary to cause placement of the Measure on the ballot.

SECTION 14. The City Clerk and City Attorney are authorized to make any
typographical, clerical, non-substantive corrections to this resolution as may be deemed
necessary by the Fresno County Clerk/Registrar of Voters.

I, Matt Flood, City Clerk of the City of Mendota, do hereby certify that the foregoing
resolution was duly adopted and passed by the City Council at a regular meeting of said
Council, held at the Mendota City Flail on the 23rd day of May, 2017, by the following
vote:

Rolando Castro, Mayor

ATTEST:

AYES:	5	-	Mayor	Castro,	Mayor	Pro	Tem	Martinez,	Councilors	Mendoza,

Rosales, and Silva.

NOES:	0

ABSENT:	0

ABSTAIN:	0

/7

Pic. MFa .%



Arguments in support or opposition of the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors

Argument in Favor of Measure A

Mendota is a small rural community that faces ongoing challenges attracting and keeping new
businesses. This has a negative impact on the City’s budget and limits the City’s ability to
compete with larger cities for new officers. Mendota has the lowest paid police force in Fresno
County. Unfortunately, many of Mendota’s officers leave the department for higher pay in other
areas of Fresno County. By 2022, the California Minimum Wage will be $15.00 per hour. This
will result in additional pressure on Mendota’s budget to pay its police officers an adequate
salary.

Without an increase in revenues, Mendota will not be able to adequately staff the police
department and runs the risk of losing the Mendota Police Department entirely, which would
likely result in an increase in crime and the City being forced to contract with the Fresno County
Sheriffs Department for law enforcement services. In the past year, Mendota has also
experienced an increase in violent crimes associated with criminal gangs, making it more
important than ever that the City have a strong, vibrant police department to help keep the
citizens of Mendota safe.

Measure A asks property owners to pay a special parcel tax to ensure the viability of the
Mendota Police Department. Although the additional payments would be small, Measure A
would generate an additional $1,000,000 in revenue for the Mendota Police Department.

Measure A requires that the money received from the tax may only be used for local law
enforcement activities. Measure A would also replace existing special taxes for police protection
services. This means property owners already paying special taxes for police services would get
a tax cut.

Let’s keep the Mendota Police Department independent, viable, and strong. Vote “YES” on
Measure A.

INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK

JUN 1 3 2017

FRFSMOTOUNW CLERK

DEPUTY

“The undersigned proponent(s) and/or author(s) of the primary argument in favor of Ballot
Measure A at the Special Election for the City of Mendota to be held on August 29, 2017, hereby
state that this argument is true and correct to the best of their knowledge and belief.”

Date: June Jj, 2017

Signed:

Printed:

Name:

Title:



vat//sC/t** A&c.

Date: June/O?2017

&

Date: June C, 2017

Date: June C, 2017

Date: June ^,2017

■°s.

a

(44

'fev A SVM.

Signed.

Printed:

Name:

Title:

Signed:

Printed:

Name:

Title:

Signed:

Printed:

Name:

Title:

Signed:	------

Printed:

Name:

QjmulS. -

khr

Mayor



Title:

i> 6-/J17

CITY OF MENDOTA

“Cantaloupe Center Of The World”

\'

>^0



TO:

FROM:

DATED:

ENCLOSURE/TRANSMITTAL MEMORANDUM

Victoria Najera
Program Coordinator
2221 Kern Street
Fresno, CA 93721

JUN 1 3 2017

Celeste Cabrera, Deputy City

ClerkCS^y

June 12, 2017

frf SNOrCOt INTY CLERK
---------------- DEPUTY

RE:	Arguments	in	Favor of Measures A and B, and Impartial Arguments for Measures

A and B and CD.

******************************************************************************

Enclosed please find: Arguments in Favor of Measures A and B, and Impartial Arguments for
Measures A and B (total of 10 pages including this cover memo and a CD).

[]	For filing.

[ ] Return (1) fully executed copy to my attention.

[X] For your immediate action.

[ ]	Other

Form of Transmittal
[X]	USPS

[ ]	Fed Ex/CA Overnight/DHS

[]	Web Based Application

[]	Hand Delivery

[ ]	Other

Enclosures as cited above

643 Quince Street Mendota, California 93640

Telephone: (559) 655-3291 Fresno Line: (559) 266-6456 Fax: (559) 655-4064

www.cityofmendota.com

201? JUN 13 am11‘.44‘. 14