IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY PLUMAS COUNTY COUNSEL
OF QUINCY LIGHTING DISTRICT - MEASURE “D”

This measure would authorize the Quincy Lighting District (“the District”) to levy a special
parcel tax on each parcel of real property located within the District in an amount not to
exceed $31.34 for the year July 1, 2018, to June 30, 2019, and then in an amount not to
exceed $18.56 each year after July 1, 2019, for the specific purpose of providing or
enhancing street lighting services within the District. Parcels exempt from property tax are
excluded from paying the tax. The taxes will be collected on the Plumas County property
tax bill in the same manner as county property taxes. This measure would also increase the
District’s spending limit as established by Article XIII B of the California Constitution by an
amount equal to the revenue from the special tax for a period of four years. Pursuant to
Government Code Sections 50075.1 and 50075.3, proceeds from the special tax are
subject to statutory accountability measures which include, but are not limited to, deposit to
a separate account and an annual report by the local agency detailing the amount of the
funds collected and expended. This measure will pass if two-thirds of the votes cast vote
“Yes.” A “YES” vote favors imposing the special tax. A “NO” vote opposes imposing the
special tax.

This measure was placed on the ballot by the Plumas County Board of Supervisors sitting
as the board of directors of the District.

Dated: August 24, 2017

Is/ R. Craig Settlemire, County Counsel, Plumas County

Argument in Favor of Measure “D”

Argument in favor of the Quincy street lighting district special parcel tax Quincy Lighting
District was formed in July 1922. East Quincy Lighting District was formed in January 1961
and was annexed by Quincy Lighting District on June 17, 2008.

The Quincy Lighting District (which includes Quincy and East Quincy Street areas) has
been under financial stress for years, to the point that the district does not currently have
sufficient revenue to pay the street lighting bills received by Pacific Gas & Electric Co.
(PG&E). The present day expenses are approximately $69,000, while the revenue from
property taxes is approximately $33,000. Of the $69,000 expenses, 80% goes to pay the
PG&E bills.

The majority of the street lights are owned and maintained by PG&E and charged monthly
based on wattage. This monthly fee is the primary expenditure to the district and covers
electricity and all maintenance required. This type of rate structure covers 322 lights in the
Quincy Lighting District other than the decorative non-standard lights owned by Quincy
Lighting District, with the monthly PG&E bill covering electricity only.

The shortage of existing tax funding for street lights necessitates a parcel tax increase of
$31.34 per year (which is equal to $2.61 per month) for each taxable parcel in the district for
the first year and $18.56 for each year (which is equal to $1.55 per month) thereafter to
properly fund the district. The higher first year tax is to repay the loan of $24,700 from
Plumas County General Fund.

Without passage of the Quincy Street Lighting District parcel tax, some or all street lights
will need to be turned off.

Is/ Robert Thorman, Associate Engineer
/s/ Lori Simpson, Plumas County Supervisor

COUNTY OF PLUMAS

Voter Information Guide

Quincy Lighting District
Measure “D”

UNIFORM DISTRICT ELECTION

Kathy Williams
Plumas County Clerk-Recorder
Registrar of Voters
520 Main Street, Room 102
Quincy, CA 95971

Further Information:
530-283-6256
or

844-676-VOTE

QUINCY LIGHTING DISTRICT

NOVEMBER 7, 2017
UNIFORM DISTRICT ELECTION

INFORMATION

An election will be held on Tuesday, November 7, 2017
within the boundaries of the Quincy Lighting District.
Voters in the district will receive a Vote by Mail ballot
along with this Voter Information Guide. A postage paid
return Identification Envelope is also provided to return
your voted ballot. No stamp is necessary.

YOUR SIGNATURE and Plumas County residence
address are required on the return Identification
Envelope for your ballot to be counted.

Ballots must be postmarked no later than November 7,
2017, Election Day. We advise you to mail vour ballot
early to avoid any postal delays.

You may also return your ballot at the convenient Ballot
Return Box located outside of the Courthouse at 520
Main Street, Quincy, California, or in Room 102 of the
Courthouse.

Sample Ballot for the Quincy Lighting District
Uniform District Election on
November 7, 2017
Plumas County, California

INSTRUCTIONS TO VOTERS:

•	To vote you must darken the oval next to the word
“YES” or “NO”, using only black or blue ink. Do Not Use
Red.

•	Do NOT place any mark or signature on the ballot that
makes it identifiable.

•	Do NOT cut or tear any portion of the ballot

•	If you mismark an oval or change your mind, exchange
your ballot for a new one

VOTE LIKE THIS: •

MEASURE “D”

“Shall the Quincy Lighting District be authorized to adopt a
special tax on each parcel of real property within the District
in an amount not to exceed $31.34 for the year July 1, 2018,
to June 30, 2019, and then in an amount not to exceed
$18.56 each year after July 1, 2019, to be effective and
collected with Plumas County general property taxes with the
proceeds from such taxes deposited to a special fund to be
used to provide or enhance street lighting services within the
District; and shall the appropriations limit of the District
required by Article 13B of the California Constitution be
increased by the amount of the annual proceeds of this
special tax? The Board of Directors shall have the discretion
to levy the special tax at a lower rate.”

YES	O

NO	O