IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY PLUMAS COUNTY COUNSEL
OF PENINSULA FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT MEASURE “A”

On April 8, 2014, the voters of the Peninsula Fire Protection District (the “District”)
authorized the District to levy a special parcel tax on real property located within the
District in the amount of $280.00 per year on each unimproved parcel and $295.00 per
year on each improved parcel of real property or condominium unit within the District
for a period of three (3) years from July 1, 2014, until June 30, 2017, for the specific
purpose of providing emergency medical response, fire protection and prevention.
Parcels exempt from property tax are excluded from paying the tax. The taxes are
collected on the Plumas County property tax bill in the same manner as county
property taxes.

If this Measure “A” is approved by two-thirds of the votes cast at this election, the June
30, 2017, expiration date for the special parcel tax will be removed, thereby allowing
the authorization to levy the special parcel tax to continue indefinitely. If this Measure
“A” is not approved, the special parcel tax will expire June 30, 2017.

This measure will not increase the District’s spending limit as established by Article XIII
B of the California Constitution by an amount equal to the revenue from the special tax
beyond the current June 30, 2017, expiration date approved by the voters on April 8,
2014.

Pursuant to Government Code Sections 50075.1 and 50075.3, proceeds from the
special tax are subject to statutory accountability measures which include, but are not
limited to, deposit to a separate account and an annual report by the local agency
detailing the amount of the funds collected and expended.

This measure will pass if two-thirds of the votes cast vote “Yes.” A “YES” vote favors
removing the June 30, 2017, expiration date for imposing the special tax. A “NO” vote
opposes removing the June 30, 2017, expiration date for imposing the special tax.

This measure was placed on the ballot by the board of directors of the District.

Is/ R. Craig Settlemire,	Dated:	September	22,	2016

County Counsel, Plumas County

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE “A”

A vote for this Measure will insure the existence of the Peninsula Fire Department. It
will guarantee the current tax rate will continue. It is not an increase, it is insurance.

/s/ Nancy Foote

President of the Board of Directors
Peninsula Fire Protection District

No Argument against Measure A was filed.

COUNTY OF PLUMAS

Voter Information Guide

Peninsula Fire Protection District
Measure “A”

SPECIAL DISTRICT ELECTION

Kathy Williams
Plumas County Clerk-Recorder
Registrar of Voters
520 Main Street, Room 102
Quincy, CA 95971

Further Information:
530-283-6256
or

844-676-VOTE

PENINSULA FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT
JANUARY 10, 2017
SPECIAL ELECTION INFORMATION

An election will be held on Tuesday, January
10, 2017 within the boundaries of the Peninsula
Fire Protection District. Voters in the district will
receive a Vote by Mail ballot along with this
Voter Information Guide. A postage paid return
Identification Envelope is also provided to
return your voted ballot. No stamp is necessary.

YOUR SIGNATURE and Plumas County
residence address are required on the return
Identification Envelope for your ballot to be
counted.

Ballots must be postmarked no later than
January 10, 2017, Election Day. We advise you
to mail vour ballot early to avoid any postal de-
lays.

You may also return your ballot at the
convenient Ballot Return Box located outside of
the Courthouse at 520 Main Street, Quincy,
California, or in Room 102 of the Courthouse.

Sample Ballot for the Peninsula Fire Protection District Special
Election on January 10, 2017
Plumas County, California

INSTRUCTIONS TO VOTERS:

1.	To vote, darken the ^^oval next to the word
“YES” or “NO”, using only black or blue ink.

2.	If you make a mistake, you may exchange your
ballot for a new .

3.	No voter shall place any mark upon a ballot that will make
the ballot identifiable.

VOTE LIKE THIS: •

MEASURE “A”

“Upon a two-thirds vote of approval the current special tax,
which is to expire July 1, 2017, is to remain in effect for an
indeterminate time period to be imposed subject to a minimum
period of three (3) years, for the specific purpose of emergency
medical response, fire protection and prevention; and shall this
extended tax period be authorized with the current special tax of
$280.00 per year on each unimproved parcel and $295.00 per
year on each improved parcel of real property or condominium
unit within the District, excluding those parcels exempt from
County property tax, to be collected and apportioned along with
the County property taxes, is to remain subject to an
indeterminate time period of no less than three (3) years, will be
collected and apportioned along with the County property taxes,
and shall the District appropriations limit (spending limit) be
caused by the amount of the annual proceeds from this special
tax, shall continue to be deposited into a specifically created
account on which an annual report shall be made as required by
California Government Code 500075.3?”

YES

NO O

O