BEFORE THE CITY COUNCIL
OF THE CITY OF WOODLAKE
COUNTY OF TULARE
STATE OF CALIFORNIA

In the matter of:

RESOLUTION CALLING A CITY ELECTION FOR )

VOTER APPROVAL OF GENERAL TRANSACTION )

AND USE TAX OF ONE PERCENT; SPECIFICATIONS )

OF THE ELECTION ORDER; AND INTRODUCE	)

AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A ONE PERCENT	)

TRANSACTION AND USE TAX	)

WHEREAS, approval of a local sales tax ensures that the City of Woodlake (“City”)
has a more reliable source of local funding for vital City services which cannot be taken by
the State, ensuring our tax dollars are spent locally for the benefit of residents of Woodlake;

WHEREAS, when a City seeks voter approval of a new sales tax. Article XIIIC §
2(b) of the California Constitution requires the election to be consolidated with the general
municipal election for City council members, except in cases in which a City Council has
unanimously declared that there is a fiscal emergency;

WHEREAS, in recent years the City has experienced a decline in tax revenues and
State revenues but the cost of providing essential City services has increased;

WHEREAS, projected deficits in the General Fund or reserve funds threatens a
reduction in staffing and services in all departments including public safety personnel and
other essential City services potentially placing Woodlake residents at risk in emergency
situations;

WHEREAS, the City’s financial projections forecast a potential deficit in the general
and/or reserve fond in the upcoming fiscal years which will limit the City’s ability to meet
public safety standards, fund recreational programs and facilities, maintain and improve
parks, repair and improve streets, and provide other general and essential services;

WHEREAS, the City Council received information during the budget review which
demonstrated that the City will be operating at a significant general and/or reserve fond
deficit commencing in fiscal year 17/18 and said deficit is projected to continue in
subsequent fiscal years;

WHEREAS, in light of the projected significant general fund operating and/or
reserve fond deficit over the next several fiscal years the City Council desires to, and by
adoption of this resolution hereby does, unanimously declare a fiscal emergency under
Article XIIIC § 2(b) of the California Constitution;

WHEREAS, the City Council published a notice of a public hearing to be held on
June 12, 2017 and June 26, 2017 to consider calling a special election to seek voter approval

FILED \

JUL % $ 201?

TULARE COUNTY
REGISTRAR OF YOURS

Resolution No. 17-73

of a proposed general transactions and use tax (“general sales tax”) as authorized by
Revenue and Taxation Code § 7285.9;

WHEREAS, the statutory deadline to authorize submittal of said general sales tax
measure to the County of Tulare’s elections office is scheduled to expire on or about August
11, 2017 for the November 7, 2017 regular election date but the County’s administrative
deadline for submittal of relevant documentation is July 14, 2017;

WHEREAS, the new general sales tax would be imposed on retail transactions
involving, and use of, personal property. The tax rate would be one percent (1%) of the sales
price of the property. The general sales tax revenue would be collected by the California
Board of Equalization as with other sales taxes. Collection of the tax could be temporarily
suspended by a unanimous vote of the City Council. The tax would require approval of at
least a majority of voters voting on the measure and approval of this resolution by at least
two-thirds vote of all members of the City Council;

WHEREAS, based upon all of the information presented to the City Council as of the
date of this resolution, both written and oral, including the staff reports, minutes and other
relevant materials, the general sales tax does not constitute a project under CEQA
Guidelines 15060(c)(2), 15061(b)(3) and 15378(b)(2) and (4) and therefore review under
CEQA is not required; and

WHEREAS, on June 12, 2017, the City Council opened and held a public hearing to
consider placing a general sales tax ordinance before the voters of the City of Woodlake at
an election to be held on November 7, 2017, and said hearing was continued to June 26,
2017, July 10, 2017 and July 24, 2017.

UPON MOTION OF COUNCIL MEMBER MARTINEZ, SECONDED BY
COUNCIL MEMBER LOPEZ, THE FOLLOWING WAS PASSED, APPROVED, AND
ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL AT AN OFFICIAL MEETING HELD _JULY 24,
2017, BY THE FOLLOWING VOTE:

AYES: Mendoza, Ortiz, Lopez, MartinezA G. Gonzalez Jr.
NOES:	/ )

ABSTAIN:	/ /

ABSENT:

ATTEST:



NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED THAT THE CITY COUNCIL:

FOUND the foregoing recitals to be true and ORDERED that an election be held
within the City of Woodlake on the 7th day of November, 2017, for the purpose of
submitting to all voters within the City a ballot measure with the following specifications:

1.	Pursuant to the California Constitution, Article XIIIC, § 2(b), Government Code §
53724 and Elections Code § 9222, the City Council of the City of Woodlake hereby
calls and orders an election at which it shall submit to the qualified voters of the City,
a measure relating to the adoption of a transactions and use tax. This measure shall be
designated by letter by the Tulare County elections official or other qualified official.

2.	The ordinance imposing a general transactions and use tax (“general sales tax”) to be
approved and adopted by the voters is set forth in EXHIBIT A hereto and
incorporated by this reference. The City Council hereby approves said ordinance, the
form thereof, and its submission to the voters of the City at an election to be held on
November 7, 2017, as required by Revenue and Taxation Code § 7285.9, subject to
the approval of a majority of the voters voting on the measure at the election called by
the adoption of the instant resolution. The ordinance enacts a general sales tax at the
rate of one percent (1%) on the gross receipts of any retailer upon the sale of all
tangible personal property sold at retail in the City and one percent (1%) of the sales
price of tangible personal property stored, used or otherwise consumed in the City.

3.	In accordance with Elections Code § 12111 and Government Code § 6061, the City
Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to cause notice of the measure to be published
once in a newspaper of general circulation, printed, published and circulated in the
City of Woodlake and hereby designated for that purpose by the City Council of the
City of Woodlake. The City Clerk may enlist the assistance of the County of Tulare
elections office to prepare and publish the required notice.

4.	Pursuant to the requirements of the laws of the State of California relating to cities
within said State, the following proposed measure ballot label shall be added to the
ballot for the November 7, 2017, election and thereby submitted to the voters of the
City:

To provide local funding to improve quality of life; parks and recreation
programs; neighborhood police patrols; gang prevention programs; street Yes
maintenance; lighting, landscaping, and trails; and other essential services,
shall City of Woodlake Ordinance No. 609, imposing a one percent general No
transactions and use tax with independent audits and citizens’ oversight, be
adopted? Revenues are estimated at approximately $430,000 annually,
indefinitely._________________________________________________________________

5.	The full text of the ballot label appearing in the preceding section shall be printed in
the sample and final ballots but the full text of Ordinance No. 609 shall not be printed
in the sample and final ballots and voter information guide. In compliance with
Elections Code § 9223, the City Clerk shall promptly print, certify and post in the
Office of the City Clerk and on the City’s website, a copy of Ordinance No. 609 and
the ballot label appearing in the preceding section, and shall provide a copy of them
to any City voter upon request and free of charge.

6.	The official ballot to be used at said election shall conform to the laws of the State of
California with relation thereto.

7.	The City Council hereby requests and consents to the County of Tulare elections
official’s consolidation of this election with other elections, if any, which may be held
in whole or in part of the territory of the City, as provided in Elections Code §§
10400 et seq., on November 7, 2017, for the ease and convenience of the registered
voters and to take advantage of any cost savings possible by such consolidation.

8.	The City Clerk may enlist the assistance of the County of Tulare elections official in
regard to the said consolidated general municipal election, as the City Clerk deems
reasonably necessary or convenient.

9.	The City will reimburse the County of Tulare for the actual cost incurred by the
county elections official in conducting the municipal election upon receipt of a bill
stating the amount due as determined by the elections official in accordance with all
applicable laws. The City Administrator is authorized to sign an appropriate written
agreement between the City and the County of Tulare for that purpose, following
review and approval as to form by the City Attorney.

10.	The election shall be held and conducted as provided by law for holding municipal
elections.

11.	The notice of the time and place of holding the election is given and the City Clerk is
directed to give further or additional notice of the election in the time, form and
manner as required by law. The City Clerk may enlist the assistance of the County of
Tulare elections office in regard to the same.

12.	The City Clerk is hereby directed to submit to the City Attorney a certified copy of
the measure pursuant to Elections Code § 9280. The City Attorney is hereby
authorized and directed to prepare an impartial analysis of the ballot measure
showing the effect of the measure on the existing law and operation of the measure,
said analysis to be submitted by the City Attorney to the County of Tulare elections
office, or other appropriate office, for printing by the date set by the County of Tulare
elections official for the filing of arguments for and against the measure. The

impartial analysis shall not exceed five hundred (500) words in length and shall
otherwise comply in all respects with the applicable provisions of the Elections Code.

13.	In accordance with the provisions of the Elections Code §§ 9290 et seq., the Mayor or
Vice-Mayor or their designee from the City’s staff is authorized and directed to
submit an argument in support of the measure and a response to any argument in
opposition to the measure.

14.	The City Clerk in conjunction with the County of Tulare election official shall fix and
determine a date for submission of arguments for or against said measure, and said
date shall be posted in the Office of the City Clerk.

15.	The election on the measure set forth in sections 2 and 4 of this resolution shall be
held and conducted, the votes canvassed and the returns made, and the results
ascertained and determined as provided for herein. In all particulars not prescribed in
this resolution, the election shall be held as prescribed in the Elections Code of the
State of California, including but not limited to Elections Code § 10262(a) pursuant
to Elections Code § 10101 to the extent applicable. The Board of Supervisors of the
County of Tulare or other appropriate county official is authorized to canvas the
returns of that election with respect to the votes cast in the City of Woodlake and
certify the results to the City Council. At the next regular meeting of the City Council
occurring after the returns of the election have been canvassed and the certification of
the results to the City Council, the City Council shall cause to be entered in its
minutes a statement of the results of the election.

16.	The City Administrator is hereby authorized and directed to expend the funds
necessary and convenient to pay for the City’s cost of placing the measure on the
election ballot.

17.	The City Clerk is hereby ordered to certify to the adoption of this resolution and to
file copies hereof, so certified, with the Clerk of the Board of Supervisors of the
County of Tulare and with the elections official of the County of Tulare, and to enter
it into the book of original resolutions.

18.	Authorized the Mayor, City Administrator, City Clerk and the respective City and
County election officials to carry out the terms and conditions of this resolution and
to take all steps reasonably necessary, proper and/or convenient and/or incidental
thereto, including the signing of any updated version of this resolution which is
reasonably necessary to conform to the requirements of the County of Tulare and
applicable laws.

PASSED AND ADOPTED at a regular meeting of the City Council of the City of
Woodlake held on the 24th day of July, 2017, by the following vote:

AYES: Mendoza, Ortiz, Lopez, Martinez & G. Gonzalez Jr.

CLERKS CERTIFICATE

City of Woodlake	}

County of Tulare	} ss.

State of California	}

I,	Irene Zacarias, City Clerk of the City of Woodlake, hereby certify that this is a full, true and
correct copy of Resolution No. 17-73 duly passed by the City Council of the City of Woodlake at a
regular meeting thereof held on the 24th day of July 2017, by the vote as set forth therein.

DATED: July 25, 2017

ORDINANCE NO. 609

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF WOODLAKE ENACTING A ONE PERCENT
(1 % - ONE CENT) GENERAL SALES TAX.

THE PEOPLE of the City of Woodlake do ordain as follows:

Section 1. PURPOSE. The provisions of this ordinance are necessary for the safety
of the public and for the preservation of essential city services for the residents of the City of
Woodlake (“City”). By adopting Resolution No. 17-73 by a vote of at least two-thirds vote of
all members of the City Council, the City Council authorized placing this ordinance before the
voters of the City of Woodlake at an election to be held on November 7, 2017.

Section 2. CODE ADOPTION. Chapter 3.15 of Title 3 of the Municipal Code of the
City of Woodlake is added to read in its entirety as follows:

Chapter 3.15
TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX

3.15-	010: SHORT TITLE.

This chapter shall be known as the City of Woodlake Transactions and
Use Tax Ordinance of 2017. The City of Woodlake hereinafter shall be called
“city.” This chapter shall be applicable within the incorporated territory of the
city.

3.15-	020: OPERATIVE DATE.

“Operative date” refers to the first day of the first calendar quarter
commencing more than one hundred ten days after the adoption of this chapter.

3.15-	030: PURPOSE.

This chapter is adopted to achieve the following, among other purposes,
and directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish those
purposes:

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the
provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with section 7251) of Division 2 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code and section 7285.9 of Part 1.7 of
Division 2 which authorizes the city to adopt this tax ordinance which
shall be operative if a majority of the electors voting on the measure vote
to approve the imposition of the tax at an election called for that purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates
provisions identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of
California insofar as those provisions are not inconsistent with the
requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code.

1

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax
and provides a measure therefore that can be administered and collected
by the State Board of Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully
as practicable to, and requires the least possible deviation from, the
existing statutory and administrative procedures followed by the State
Board of Equalization in administering and collecting California state
sales and use taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be
administered in a manner that will be, to the greatest degree possible,
consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting the transactions and
use taxes, and at the same time, minimize the burden of record keeping
upon persons subject to taxation under the provisions of this chapter.

3.15-	040: CONTRACT FOR ADMINISTRATION.

Prior to the operative date, the city shall contract with the California State
Board of Equalization to perform all functions incident to the administration and
operation of this transactions and use tax ordinance; provided, that if the city shall
not have contracted with the State Board of Equalization prior to the operative
date, it shall nevertheless so contract and in such a case the operative date shall be
the first day of the first calendar quarter following the execution of such a
contract.

3.15-	050: TRANSACTIONS TAX RATE.

For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax is
hereby imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated territory of the city at the
rate of one percent (1%) of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all
tangible personal property sold at retail in said territory on and after the operative
date of this chapter.

3.15-	060: PLACE OF SALE.

For the purposes of this chapter, all retail sales shall be deemed
consummated at the place of business of the retailer unless the tangible personal
property sold is delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination
or to a common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross
receipts from such sales shall include delivery charges, when such charges are
subject to the state sales and use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is
made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the state or has
more than one place of business, the place or places at which the retail sales are
consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations as may be
prescribed and adopted from time to time by the State Board of Equalization.

3.15-	070: USE TAX RATE.

An excise tax is hereby imposed upon the storage, use or other
consumption within the city of tangible personal property purchased from any
retailer on and after the operative date of this ordinance for storage, use or other

2

consumption within said territory at the rate of one percent (1%) of the sales price
of the property. The sales price shall include delivery charges when such charges
are subject to state sales or use tax regardless of the place to which delivery is
made.

3.15-	080: ADOPTION OF STATE LAW PROVISIONS.

Except as otherwise provided in this chapter and except insofar as they are
inconsistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing with section 6001) of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a part
of this chapter as though fully set forth herein.

3.15-	090: LIMITATIONS UPON ADOPTION OF STATE LAW AND
COLLECTION OF USE TAXES.

In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing
agency, the name of this city shall be substituted therefore. However, the
substitution shall not be made in any of the following:

1.	Insofar as the word “state” is used as a part of the title of the State
Controller, State Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Board of
Equalization, State Treasury or the Constitution of the State of
California;

2.	Whenever the result of said substitution would require action to be
taken by or against this city or any agency, officer or employee
thereof rather than by or against the State Board of Equalization, in
performing the functions incident to the administration or operation
of this chapter;

3.	As to those sections referring to the exterior boundaries of the State
of California;

4.	As to those sections, including but not necessarily limited to, where
the result of the substitution would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales,
storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property
which would not otherwise be exempt from this tax while such
sales, storage, use or other consumption remain subject to tax
by the state under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code; or

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or
other consumption of tangible personal property which would

3

not be subject to tax by the state under the said provision of that
code; and

5.	Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711,
6715,6737, 6797 and 6828.

B.	The word “city” shall not be substituted for the word “state” in the
phrase “retailer engaged in business in this State” in section 6203 and in
the definition of that phrase in section 6203.

3.15-	100: PERMIT NOT REQUIRED.

If a seller’s permit has been issued to a retailer under section 6067 of the

Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional seller’s permit shall not be required by

this chapter.

3.15-	110: EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the use
tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California
or by any city, city and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns
Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the amount of any state-
administered transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax
the gross receipts from:

1.	The amount of sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or
by any city, city and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns
Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law, or the amount of any state-
administered transactions or use tax;

2.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum
products, to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally
outside the county in which the sale is made and directly and exclusively
in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property
under the authority of the laws of this state, the United States or any
foreign government;

3.	Sales of property to be used outside the city which is shipped to a point
outside the city, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such point
by the retailer or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for
shipment to a consignee at such point. For the purposes of this
paragraph, delivery to a point outside the city shall be satisfied:

a. With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject to
registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with section 4000)
of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance

4

with section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and undocumented
vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with section
9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration to an out-of-city address
and by a declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer,
stating that such address is, in fact, his or her principal place of
residence; and

b. With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of
business out-of-city and declaration under penalty of peijury, signed
by the buyer, that the vehicle will be operated from that address;

4.	Sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to furnish the
property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the
operative date of this chapter; and

5.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such
property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease
the property for an amount fixed by a lease prior to the operative date of
this chapter.

6.	For the purposes of subsections 4 and 5 of this section, the sale or lease
of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated
pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party
to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the
contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this chapter, the storage, use

or other consumption in this city of tangible personal property:

1.	The amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of
California or by any city, city and county, or county pursuant to the
Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law (Part 1.5
commencing with section 7200) or the amount of any state-administered
transactions or use tax;

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of aircraft
and used or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the
use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property for hire or
compensation under a certificate of public convenience and necessity
issued pursuant to the laws of this state, the United States, or any foreign
government. This exemption is in addition to the exemptions provided
by sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code;

3.	If the purchaser became obligated to purchase the property for a fixed
price by a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this chapter;

5

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the
tangible personal property arises under a lease which is a continuing
purchase of such property for any period of time for which the lessee is
obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by a lease prior to the
operative date of this chapter;

5.	For the purposes of subsections 3 and 4 of this section, storage, use, or
other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power
over, tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated
pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party
to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the
contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised;

6.	Except as provided in subsection 7, a retailer engaged in business within
the city shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of
tangible personal property, unless the retailer ships or delivers the
property into the city or participates within the city in making the sale of
the property, including but not limited to soliciting or receiving the
order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer in
the city or through any representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor,
subsidiary, or person in the city under the authority of the retailer; and

7.	A “retailer engaged in business within the city” shall also include any
retailer of any of the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant
to Chapter 1 (commencing with section 4000) of Division 3 of the
Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with section 21411 of the
Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels registered under Division
3.5 (commencing with section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer
shall be required to collect use tax from any purchaser who registers or
licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address within the city.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this chapter may credit against that tax
any transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district
imposing, or retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code with respect to the sale to the
person of the property the storage, use or other consumption of which is
subject to the use tax.

3.15-120: AMENDMENTS.

A. All amendments subsequent to November 7, 2017 to Part 1 of Division 2
of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and which are
not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part of this chapter,
provided however, that no such amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of
tax imposed by this chapter. Said amendments shall not require voter approval.

6

B. The following amendments to this chapter must be approved by the voters
of the city: (i) increasing the tax rate or revising the methodology for calculating
the tax such that a tax increase would result; (ii) imposing the tax on transactions
and uses not previously subject to the tax (unless such amendment occurs
automatically by operation of the preceding paragraph); or (iii) extending the
effective date of this chapter. Otherwise, the city council may amend this chapter,
by an affirmative vote from at least four council seats, without submitting the
amendment to the voters for approval.

3.15-	130: ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN.

No injunction, writ of mandate or prohibition, or other legal or equitable
process shall issue in any suit, action or proceeding in any court against the state
or the city, or against any officer of the state or the city, to prevent or enjoin the
collection under this chapter, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.

3.15-	140: SUSPENSION OF COLLECTION.

A.	The city council shall have authority to temporarily suspend collection of
all or any portion of the tax imposed by this chapter by resolution unanimously
approved by all members of the entire city council, subject to the restrictions in
the city agreement with the State Board of Equalization. Unless another specific
date is otherwise included in said resolution which identifies the final date of the
temporary suspension, such suspension shall automatically expire on the next
occurring final date of the city’s fiscal year which is at least three hundred sixty-
five (365) days after the date the suspension resolution is adopted.

B.	Notwithstanding subsection A of this section, the authority to levy the tax
imposed by this chapter shall not expire or otherwise terminate, unless terminated
by a duly enacted ordinance which is approved at a regular meeting of, and by
unanimous vote of each and all of the seats on the city council.

3.15-	150: SALES AND USE TAX ACCOUNTABILITY MEASURES

A.	The City Council shall, prior to the imposition of a sales and use tax that is
subject to the provisions of this Chapter, adopt, by resolution approved by a majority of
the Council, an initial spending plan specifying the uses of the proceeds of the sales or
use tax. The initial expenditure plan shall cover the period between implementation of the
sales and use tax and the end of the subsequent fiscal year.

B.	Prior to expiration of the initial spending plan and as part of adoption of an annual
City general fund budget, the City Council shall adopt, by resolution approved by a
majority of the Council, an annual spending plan specifying the uses of the proceeds of
the sales and use tax that is subject to the provisions of this Chapter, applicable to the
coming fiscal year.

7

C.	The initial spending plan and any subsequent annual spending plan may be
amended at any time by resolution adopted by a majority of the Council.

D.	Following adoption, the City shall make the initial spending plan, any subsequent
annual spending plan, and any amended expenditure plan publicly accessible at all times.

3.15-160: CITIZEN’S OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE.

The Council will appoint a seven member standing oversight committee to be made
up of the following Woodlake residents to serve two-year (2) terms from the
following:

1.	Local Business Member

2.	School District Appointee Member

3.	Police Department Appointee Member

4.	Fire Department Appointee Member

5.	Resident Member

6.	Resident Member

7.	Resident Member

These members will serve as the independent Citizens’ Oversight Committee to
review the expenditure of funds collected pursuant to the tax imposed by this
Ordinance. In the event the entities on this list no longer exist, the Council shall
appoint other individuals or bodies to serve on this seven (7) member advisory body
for the purpose of serving as a replacement member(s) for the purposes of this
Ordinance.

3.15-170: ANNUAL AUDIT.

The City shall ensure that annual independent audits are conducted to account for
the tax revenues received and expenditures made in relation to the tax that is subject
to this Ordinance.

Section 3. CEQA REVIEW. The City Council hereby finds that this ordinance is not
subject to review under the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) pursuant to CEQA
Guidelines 15060(c)(2), 15061(b)(3) and 15378(b)(2) and (4). The City Manager is hereby
directed to ensure that a Notice of Exemption is filed pursuant to CEQA Guidelines section
15062 [14 C.C.R. § 15062].

Section 4. NO LIABILITY. The provisions of this ordinance shall not in any way be
construed as imposing any duty of care, liability or responsibility for damage to person or
property upon the City of Woodlake, or any official, employee or agent thereof.

Section 5. PENDING ACTIONS. Nothing in this ordinance or in the codes hereby
adopted shall be construed to affect any suit or proceeding pending or impending in any court, or
any rights acquired, or liability incurred, or any cause or causes of action acquired or existing,
under any act or ordinance or code repealed by this ordinance, nor shall any just or legal right or
remedy of any character be lost, impaired or affected by this ordinance.

8

Section 6. SEVERABILITY. If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph,
sentence, clause or phrase of this ordinance, or its application to any person or circumstance, is
for any reason held to be invalid or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not
affect the validity or enforceability of the remaining sections, subsections, subdivisions,
paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases of this ordinance, or its application to any other person
or circumstance. The City Council of the City of Woodlake hereby declares that it would have
adopted each section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase hereof,
irrespective of the fact that any one or more of other sections, subsections, subdivisions,
paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases hereof be declared invalid or unenforceable.

Section 7. CONSTRUCTION. The City Council intends this ordinance to
supplement, not to duplicate or contradict, applicable state and federal law and this ordinance
shall be construed in light of that intent. To the extent the provisions of the Woodlake Municipal
Code as amended by this ordinance, if any, are substantially the same as provisions in the
Woodlake Municipal Code existing prior to the effectiveness of this ordinance, then those
amended provisions shall be construed as continuations of the earlier provisions and not as new
enactments.

Section 8. EFFECTIVE DATE. Pursuant to Elections Code § 9217, this ordinance
shall be deemed adopted on the date when the final vote is declared by the City Council and this
ordinance shall go into effect ten (10) days after that date, contingent upon approval by a
majority of the voters voting on the measure in the November 7, 2017 election. However,
pursuant to Revenue and Taxation Code § 7265, the authority to levy the general sales tax in the
foregoing ordinance shall take effect first day of the first calendar quarter commencing more
than one hundred ten (110) days after the adoption of this ordinance.

THE FOREGOING ORDINANCE was approved by the City Council of the City of
Woodlake, State of California, on July 24, 2017 at a regular meeting of said Council duly and
regularly convened on said day by the following vote:

AYES: Mendoza, Ortiz, Lopez, Martinez & G. Gonzalez Jr.

NOES:

ABSTAIN:

ABSENT:

City of Woodlake	}

County of Tulare	} ss.

State of California	}

CLERKS CERTIFICATE

I, Irene Zacarias, City Clerk of the City of Woodlake hereby certify that the foregoing is a lull,
true and correct copy of an ordinance approved by the City Council of the City of Woodlake at a
meeting held on the 24th day of July, 2017, by the vote as set forth therein.

DATED:	July	25,	2017

10