043

Dean C. Logan

Los Angeles County
Registrar-Recorder/County Clerk

Official Sample Ballot

Consolidated Municipal and
Special Elections

March 7, 2017

Polls open at 7 am and close at 8 pm

lavote.net

How to vote at your polling place on Election Day

How to vote for a person not listed on the ballot

Write the name and office of the official write-in candidate in the “write-in1
portion of the ballot. A list of “Qualified Write-in Candidates” is available 11
days before the election at lavote.net. See a pollworker for a list of qualified
candidates.

You may not write-in a candidate and vote for a candidate on the ballot for the
same office.

By mail

2

FP-TP01 -E

LA 043-001

Offices on the ballot

March 7, 2017 marks the date for the Consolidated Municipal and Special
Elections. This election, the ballot will include a countywide ballot measure
and contests for local offices and measures. Review your Sample
Ballot and visit lavote.net to ensure you are ready for Election Day!

FP-TP02-E

LA 043-002

Why should you vote early?

•	No need to rush on Election Day to get to your polling place.

•	No need to worry about sending your Vote by Mail ballot on time.

The Registrar-Recorder/County Clerk is offering early voting at specified
locations leading up to the March 7, 2017 Consolidated Municipal and Special
Elections.

Beginning February 6th any voter that would like to vote early can visit the
Department’s Headquarters located at 12400 Imperial Highway in Norwalk
to request and cast a ballot.

The Department will also offer additional early voting sites on the weekend before
Election Day on March 4th and 5th at several locations throughout Los Angeles
County.

For additional information on the early voting program including a listing
of locations, dates and hours of operation, please visit lavote.net.

FP-TP03-E

LA 043-003

Vote By Mail

Ballot drop-off locations

The Registrar-Recorder/County Clerk is providing Vote By Mail drop-off
locations for the March 7, 2017 Consolidated Municipal and Special Elections.

Beginning February 6th any voter who receives a Vote By Mail ballot may
drop-off their voted ballot at one of many convenient locations throughout Los
Angeles County.

For details on the program and a listing of ballot drop-off locations, please
visit lavote.net.

FP-TP04-E

LA 043-004

You have the following rights:

1.	The right to vote if you are a registered voter. You are eligible to vote if you
are:

- a U.S. citizen living in California	- registered where you currently live

- at least 18 years old	- not in prison or on parole for a felony

2.	The right to vote if you are a registered voter even if your name is not on
the list.

You will vote using a provisional ballot. Your vote will be counted if elections
officials determine that you are eligible to vote.

3.	The right to vote if you are still in line when the polls close.

4.	The right to cast a secret ballot without anyone bothering you or telling you
how to vote.

5.	The right to get a new ballot if you have made a mistake, if you have not
already cast your ballot. You can:

Ask an elections official at a polling place for a new ballot; or
Exchange your vote by mail ballot for a new one at an elections office, or at
your polling place; or

Vote using a provisional ballot, if you do not have your original vote by mail
ballot.

6.	The right to get help casting your ballot from anyone you choose, except
from your employer or union representative.

7.	The right to drop off your completed vote by mail ballot at any polling
place in the county where you are registered to vote.

8.	The right to get election materials in a language other than English if

enough people in your voting precinct speak that language.

9.	The right to ask questions to elections officials about election procedures

and watch the election process. If the person you ask cannot answer your
questions, they must send you to the right person for an answer. If you are
disruptive, they can stop answering you.

10.	The right to report any illegal or fraudulent election activity to an elections
official or the Secretary of State’s office.

E On the web at www.sos.ca.gov
B By phone at (800) 345-VOTE (8683)

[S] By email at elections@sos.ca.gov

If you believe you have been denied any of these rights, call the Secretary
of State’s confidential toll-free Voter Hotline at (800) 345-VOTE (8683).

FP-TP05-E

LA 043-005

Translated election material

1-800-815-2666 option 3

•	Call to receive translated election materials.

•	Llame para recibir material electoral traducido.

•	Hay gQi di?n tho^i de nhgn nhOrng tai lieu bau ctr da dirgfc phien djch.

9	Tumawag lang po upang makatanggap ng mga materyales na
nakasalin para sa halalan.

I	4/	I

•	R^wfimQnjifln^njnnnSfiniiwvluiJ^usQ

•	mh WMtramtl«T 9 e tucn s wtm: rruttn srai ma fucn auntra i

v v ch	tJ 2j	n	<r	U

•	ar^nfer >hi<hjJTi mn % f^nr rct

® SuiGquilnupbf pmpqiIuiGi|w& pGinpuiljuiG Gjncphpp
uinuiGuipni. liuuJiup:

•	rio3BOHMTe, HTo6bi no/iymriTb nepeBefleHHbie Maiepnanbi
no Bbi6opaM.

•	_	(jjdLaJ	o±u> 4 jf' L

The Federal Voting Rights Act requires voter information, including a
sample ballot booklet containing a Vote By Mail application be available in
English as well as Spanish, Chinese, Korean, Vietnamese, Tagalog/
Filipino, and Khmer. Additional languages that we support are: Armenian,
Farsi, Hindi, Japanese, Russian and Thai.

FP-TP06-E

LA 043-006

Apply to vote by mail

One-time Vote By Mail

You can request a ballot by mail starting 29 days before the election. Apply
by doing one of the following:

•	Visit lavote.net and submit your request online.

•	Tear off and mail back the application on the back cover
page of this booklet.

•	Send a letter signed by the voter that includes the voter’s residence
address and where to send the Vote By Mail ballot:
Registrar-Recorder/County Clerk

RO. Box 30450, Los Angeles, CA 90030-0450.

•	You can also apply by calling (800) 815-2666 option 2.

Permanent Vote By Mail

You can request a ballot to be mailed to you automatically every time there is
an election. This is called Permanent Vote By Mail status. California law allows
a voter to declare that they want to automatically vote by mail every election.

You can download an application at lavote.net or just check the box on the
Vote By Mail application on the back cover of this booklet.

FP-TP07-E

LA 043-007

SCHOOL

LOS ANGELES COMMUNITY COLLEGE DISTRICT

Member of the	STEVE GOLDSTEIN	C A ^
Board of Trustees,	Community College Advocate	
Seat 2	STEVEN VERES	
Vote for One	College Teacher	00^
	SERGIO VARGAS	
	Education Advocate	56"*
	THOMAS J. NORMAN	
	College Professor/Businessperson	Of*

Member of the	DALLAS DENISE FOWLER	
Board of Trustees,	Los Angeles Commissioner/Educator	09^
Seat 4	ERNEST H. MORENO	
Vote for One	Community College Trustee	60"*

Member of the	GABRIEL BUELNA	
Board of Trustees,	College Professor	
Seat 6	NANCY PEARLMAN	
Vote for One	Community College Trustee	00^

END OF BALLOT

03-002

LA 043-010

g+n Candidate statements &
measures

The following pages may contain Candidate Statements, and/or Ballot Measure
Analyses, Arguments or Rebuttals.

Candidates for local offices have the option of including a statement, for which
they pay a fee, unless the governing body pays the fee.

In compliance with the law, only English and Spanish language Candidate
Statements are included in this booklet. Each candidate that submitted a Spanish
language Candidate Statement has paid an additional fee.

Candidate Statements, Arguments or Rebuttals In Favor, or/and Against Ballot
Measures are not edited or verified for accuracy by any elections officials.

Arguments and/or Rebuttals are the opinions of the authors.

FP-DS03-E

LA 043-011

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE H

By Mary C. Wickham, County Counsel

Approval of Measure H (“Measure”) would authorize the County of
Los Angeles (“County”) to impose a one-quarter percent (0.25%) special
transactions and use tax on the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all
personal property in the incorporated and unincorporated territory of the
County (“Tax”). This Measure was placed on the ballot by resolution of the
County Board of Supervisors (“Board”) and, if approved, will result in the
enactment of Ordinance No. 2017-0001 (“Ordinance”).

Proceeds from the Tax will be used to generate ongoing funding to prevent and
combat homelessness within Los Angeles County, including funding mental
health, substance abuse treatment, health care, education, job training, rental
and housing subsidies, case management and services, emergency and affordable
housing, transportation, outreach, prevention, and supportive services for
homeless children, families, foster youth, veterans, battered women, seniors,
disabled individuals, and other homeless adults, consistent with the strategies
developed through the Homeless Initiative adopted by the Board, and as
otherwise directed by the Board to address the causes and effects of
homelessness.

The Ordinance provides that the County shall contract with the California State
Board of Equalization (“SBE”) to administer the Tax. The Ordinance requires
the SBE contract ensure the combined local transactions and use tax rate limit
(currently two (2) percent) is not exceeded in any city or district such that the
Tax, when aggregated with all other transactions and use taxes within the city or
district subject to the combined rate limit will (1) not cause the rate of all such
taxes to exceed the combined rate limit, (2) not cause any person subject to the
Tax to pay more than combined rate, and (3) have no impact on the revenue
received by each city and district from transactions and use taxes previously
imposed. The Tax will commence the latter of the first day of the first calendar
quarter that is more than 110 days after approval of this Measure or the first day
of the first calendar quarter after the execution of the SBE contract
(“Commencement Date”). The Tax will expire ten (10) years after the
Commencement Date.

If this Tax is approved by voters, the County Auditor-Controller shall have an
independent auditor prepare and file a report with the Board by December 31 of
each year the Tax is imposed. The report shall state: (1) the amount of Tax
revenues collected and expended each year; and (2) the status of any project and
description of services or programs funded from proceeds of the Tax.

(Continued on next page)

LA 043-012

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE H (Continued)

If approved, the Measure creates a Citizens’ Oversight Advisory Board
composed of five members appointed by the Board which shall review
semi-annually all expenditures from the Tax, annually publish a complete
accounting of all allocations each year, and submit periodic evaluations to the
County.

The Tax proceeds shall be deposited into a special account, created and
maintained by the County, and shall only be used for the specific purposes
outlined in the Ordinance.

This Measure requires a two-thirds (2/3) vote for passage.

PR-005036-2

LA 043-013

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE H

Vote YES on Measure H to help end homelessness in L.A. County.

The growing homeless crisis is disrupting nearly every community in the
county — compromising public health and safety and hurting local businesses.
The longer we wait, the more expensive it will be to help the 47,000+ homeless
population, including many women and children. We need to act now to help
them get off the streets and into housing with services.

The Board of Supervisors, including Democrats and Republicans, unanimously
voted to place Measure H on the ballot and declared a State of Emergency, with
the support of a broad coalition of health and mental health service providers,
business leaders, paramedics, firefighters, religious and neighborhood leaders
because it will provide essential treatment and services to get the homeless off
the street. They don’t just need housing - they need health/mental health
treatment, job training and counseling. Measure H would accomplish just that.

In just the first five years, the proceeds of Measure H would enable 45,000
families/individuals to exit homelessness into permanent housing and help an
additional 30,000 families/individuals avoid homelessness.

—	Over 4,000 local children are homeless, and they are sick four times more
often and four times more likely to show delayed development. Measure H will
work to ensure all children are protected.

—	It is our duty to help the veterans who have sacrificed for us by assisting them
in dealing with the effects of combat trauma and drug addiction, finding jobs,
and making sure they have homes. Measure H will help stabilize the homeless
veterans population.

—	One in three of the homeless in L.A. County are women who are especially
vulnerable to rape and assault. Measure H will help women get off the street.

Please do your part to help end homelessness throughout L.A. County and Vote
YES on Measure H.

JACKIE LACEY

L.A. County District Attorney

ELISE BUIK

United Way of Greater Los Angeles
MARY LESLIE

President - Los Angeles Business Council
YVETTE J. KELLEY

President & CEO, New Directions For Veterans
ALEX JOHNSON

Executive Director, Children’s Defense Fund-California
NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE WAS SUBMITTED

LA 043-014

PROPOSED ORDINANCE OF MEASURE H

An ordinance amending Title 4, Revenue and Finance of the Los Angeles
County Code, to add Chapter 4.73—Transactions and Use Tax to Prevent and
Combat Homelessness, relating to a special countywide transactions and use tax
to prevent and combat homelessness within Los Angeles County.

The people of the County of Los Angeles ordains as follows:

SECTION 1. Chapter 4.73 is hereby added to read as follows:

Chapter 4.73

Transactions and Use Tax to Prevent and Combat Homelessness
Sections:

4.73.010	Title.

4.73.020 Operative Date.

4.73.030 Purpose.

4.73.040 Expenditure Plan.

4.73.050 Special Account.

4.73.060 Community Oversight and Accountability.

4.73.070 Accountability Measures.

4.73.080 Contract with State.

4.73.090 Transactions Tax Rate.

4.73.100 Place of Sale.

4.73.110 Use Tax Rate.

4.73.120 Adoption of Provisions of State Law.

4.73.130 Limitations on Adoption of State Law and Collection of Use.

4.73.140 Permit Not Required.

4.73.150 Exemptions and Exclusions.

4.73.160 State Law Amendments.

4.73.170 Amendment of Ordinance.

4.73.180 Enjoining Collection Forbidden.

4.73.190 Severability.

4.73.200	Effective Date.

4.73.201	Execution.

4.73.010	Title.

This Chapter shall be known as the “Transactions and Use Tax to Prevent and
Combat Homelessness” ordinance. The County of Los Angeles hereinafter shall
be called “County.” This ordinance shall be applicable in the incorporated and
unincorporated territory of the County.

(Continued on next page)

LA 043-015

PROPOSED ORDINANCE OF MEASURE H (Continued)

4.73.020 Operative Date.

Except as provided for in Section 4.73.050, the “Operative Date” means the first
day of the first calendar quarter commencing more than 110 days after the
adoption of this ordinance, the date of such adoption being as set forth below.

4.73.030 Purpose.

This ordinance is adopted to achieve the following and directs that the provisions
hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish those purposes:

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the provisions
of Part 1.6 (commencing with section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code and section 7285.5 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 which authorizes the
County to adopt this tax ordinance which shall be operative if two thirds of the
electors voting on the measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax at an
election called for that purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates
provisions identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of
California insofar as those provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements
and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax and
provides a measure therefor that can be administered and collected by the State
Board of Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to,
and requires the least possible deviation from, the existing statutory and
administrative procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization in
administering and collecting the California State Sales and Use Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be administered
in a manner that will be, to the greatest degree possible, consistent with the
provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize
the cost of collecting the transactions and use taxes, and at the same time,
minimize the burden of record keeping upon persons subject to taxation under
the provisions of this ordinance.

E.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance for the specific purpose
of preventing and combatting homelessness within Los Angeles County.
Revenues generated by the retail transactions and use tax shall be used to sustain
the implementation of the County’s Homeless Initiative’s recommended
strategies, adopted by the Board of Supervisors on February 9, 2016, and as
otherwise directed by the Board of Supervisors to address the causes and effects
of homelessness, consistent with this Chapter.

LA 043-016

(Continued on next page)

PROPOSED ORDINANCE OF MEASURE H (Continued)

4.73.040 Expenditure Plan.

A.	Consistent with Subsection E of Section 4.73.030, above, the revenues
generated by the retail transactions and use tax will be expended by the County
pursuant to an expenditure plan approved by the Board of Supervisors prior to
June 30th of each year. The annual expenditure plan will include, but not be
limited to, the following projects:

1.	Prevent Homelessness:

a.	Homeless Prevention Program for Families;

b.	Homeless Prevention Program for Individuals.

2.	Subsidize Housing:

a.	Expand Rapid Rehousing;

b.	Provide subsidized housing to homeless disabled individuals pursuing
Supplemental Security Income;

c.	Facilitate utilization of federal housing subsidies;

d.	Family reunification housing subsidies;

e.	Interim/bridge housing for those exiting institutions.

3.	Provide Case Management and Services:

a.	Mental health, substance use, and counseling services;

b.	Regional Integrated Re-entry Network;

c.	Jail In-reach;

d.	Criminal Record Clearing Project;

e.	Provide services for Permanent Supportive Housing.

4.	Increase Income:

a.	Increase employment for homeless adults by supporting social enterprise;

b.	Subsidized employment for homeless adults;

c.	Countywide Supplemental Security/Social Security Disability income, and
Veterans benefits advocacy.

5.	Create a Coordinated System:

a.	Expand the Countywide Outreach System;

b.	Strengthen the Coordinated Entry System;

c.	Enhance the Emergency Shelter System;

d.	Enhance services for transition age youth.

PR-005036-6

LA 043-017

(Continued on next page)

PROPOSED ORDINANCE OF MEASURE H (Continued)

6.	Affordable Housing for the Homeless:

a.	Preserve current affordable housing;

b.	Promote the development of affordable housing for homeless families and
individuals.

7.	Other services to address the causes and effects of homelessness.

B.	To the extent feasible, revenues from the retail transactions and use tax shall
be used to leverage additional public and private resources to address the causes
and effects of homelessness, consistent with this Chapter.

C.	Revenues from the retail transactions and use tax may be awarded as grants
to public agencies and non-profit organizations to address the causes and effects
of homelessness, consistent with this Chapter. The Board of Supervisors shall
adopt policies and procedures for the solicitation and award of such grants.
Nothing herein precludes the County from using revenue generated by the retail
transactions and use tax for contracting with for-profit contractors and private
businesses in compliance with applicable law.

4.73.050 Special Account.

Any retail transactions and use tax proceeds shall be deposited in a special
account, created and maintained by the County, and used only for the specific
purposes identified in Subsection E of Section 4.73.030, above, in accordance
with Section 4.73.030, above.

4.73.060 Community Oversight and Accountability

A.	The Citizens’ Homelessness Initiative Oversight Advisory Board (“Advisory
Board”) is hereby created.

B.	The Advisory Board shall be comprised of five members appointed by the
Board of Supervisors. Each Supervisorial District shall nominate one member for
appointment by the Board of Supervisors. The Advisory Board shall include at
least one member that meets each of the following criteria:

1.	A professional from the field of municipal/public finance and/or accounting
and budgeting with a minimum of ten years of relevant experience in evaluating
financial transactions and program cost-effectiveness; and

2.	An individual working in the homelessness services, research, or advocacy
field in a management position with a minimum of ten years of relevant
experience.

LA 043-018

(Continued on next page)

PROPOSED ORDINANCE OF MEASURE H (Continued)

The Advisory Board members shall be governed by and comply with State
conflict of interest laws (e.g., Government Code section 87000 et seq.; and
section 1090 et seq.) and the County’s conflict of interest policies. The members
shall have no legal action pending against Los Angeles County and are
prohibited from acting in any activity directly or indirectly involving funding
provided through this ordinance during their tenure on the Advisory Board.
Advisory Board members shall not have direct interest or employment with any
public or private entity, which receives funding provided through this ordinance.

C.	The Advisory Board shall do all of the following:

1.	Semi-annual review of all expenditures from the retail transactions and use
tax;

2.	Publish a complete accounting of all allocations each year, posting the
information on the County’s publicly accessible Internet Web site; in a
downloadable spreadsheet format, including information about the location and
footprint of each funded project, its objectives, status, and outcomes, any
matching funds used, and the applicable program from the expenditure plan
schedule;

3.	Submit periodic evaluations to the County of the retail transactions and use
tax expenditures, which may at the Board of Supervisors’ direction be
undertaken by independent researchers, identifying any changes needed to meet
the objectives of the Homeless Initiative.

D.	Members of the Advisory Board shall serve a term of four years at the
pleasure of the Board of Supervisors, and no member may serve more than two
consecutive four-year terms. The Board of Supervisors may, by order, extend this
length of service or waive this limit for individuals or the Advisory Board as a
whole. A member’s position shall become vacant upon his or her death,
resignation, or removal by the Board of Supervisors. In the case of such a
vacancy, the Supervisorial District from which the vacancy arose shall nominate a
successor for appointment by the Board of Supervisors to fill the unexpired term.

E.	Members of the Advisory Board shall not be compensated for their service,
but may be reimbursed for actual and necessary expenses incurred in the
performance of their duties.

(Continued on next page)

LA 043-019

PROPOSED ORDINANCE OF MEASURE H (Continued)

4.73.070 Accountability Measures.

For so long as any proceeds of the retail transactions and use tax remain
unexpended, the Auditor-Controller shall cause a report to be prepared by an
independent auditor and filed with the Board of Supervisors no later than
December 31st of each year, stating: (i) the amount of retail transactions and use
tax proceeds collected and expended in such year; and (ii) the status of any
projects or description of any services or programs funded from proceeds of the
retail transactions and use tax.

4.73.080 Contract with State.

Prior to the operative date, the County shall contract with the State Board of
Equalization to perform all functions incident to the administration and
operation of this transactions and use tax ordinance; provided, that if the County
shall not have contracted with the State Board of Equalization prior to the
operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract and in such a case the operative
date shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter following the execution of
such a contract.

4.73.090 Transactions Tax Rate.

For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a transaction tax
is hereby imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated and unincorporated
territory of the County at the rate of 0.25% of the gross receipts of any retailer
from the sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail in said territory for a
period of ten (10) years beginning on and after the operative date of this
ordinance.

4.73.100 Place of Sale.

For the purposes of this ordinance, all retail sales are consummated at the place
of business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is delivered
by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier
for delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts from such sales
shall include delivery charges, when such charges are subject to the State sales
and use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is made. In the event a
retailer has no permanent place of business in the State or has more than one
place of business, the place or places at which the retail sales are consummated
shall be determined under rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by
the State Board of Equalization.

PR-005036-9

LA 043-020

(Continued on next page)

PROPOSED ORDINANCE OF MEASURE H (Continued)

4.73.110 Use Tax Rate.

A use tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other consumption in the
County of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on and after
the operative date of this ordinance for storage, use or other consumption in said
territory at the rate of 0.25% of the sales price of the property for a period of ten
(10) years beginning on and after the operative date of this ordinance. The sales
price shall include delivery charges when such charges are subject to State sales
or use tax regardless of the place to which delivery is made.

4.73.120 Adoption of Provisions of State Law.

Except as otherwise provided in this ordinance and except insofar as they are
inconsistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing with section 6001) of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a
part of this ordinance as though fully set forth herein.

4.73.130 Limitations on Adoption of State Law and Collection of Use Taxes.

In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing agency,
the name of this County shall be substituted therefor. However, the substitution
shall not be made:

1.	When the word “State” is used as a part of the title of the State Controller,
State Treasurer, State Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or the Constitution
of the State of California;

2.	Where the result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or
against this County or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by or
against the State Board of Equalization, in performing the functions incident to
the administration or operation of this ordinance.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sections referring to
the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the result of the
substitution would be to:

a. Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use
or other consumption of tangible personal property which would not otherwise
be exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other consumption
remain subject to tax by the State under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

LA 043-021

(Continued on next page)

PROPOSED ORDINANCE OF MEASURE H (Continued)

b. Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other
consumption of tangible personal property which would not be subject to tax by
the State under the said provision of that code.

4.	In sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711, 6715, 6737,
6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

B.	The word “County” shall be substituted for the word “State” in the phrase
“retailer engaged in business in this State” in section 6203 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, and in the definition of that phrase in section 6203.

4.73.140 Permit Not Required.

If a seller’s permit has been issued to a retailer under section 6067 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional transactor’s permit shall not be
required by this ordinance.

4.73.150 Exemptions and Exclusions.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the use
tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or
by any city, city and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform
Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the amount of any state-administered
transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax
the gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum products, to
operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the County in
which the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as
common carriers of persons or property under the authority of the laws of this
State, the United States, or any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the County which is shipped to a point
outside the County, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by
the retailer or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to
a consignee at such point. For the purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point
outside the County shall be satisfied:

a. With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject to
registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with section 4000) of Division 3
of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with section 21411 of the
Public Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5
(commencing with section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration to an

LA 043-022

(Continued on next page)

PROPOSED ORDINANCE OF MEASURE H (Continued)

out-of-County address and by a declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by
the buyer, stating that such address is, in fact, his or her principal place of
residence; and

b. With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of business
out-of-County and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, that
the vehicle will be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to furnish the
property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the
operative date of this ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such
property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the
property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of this
ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, the sale or
lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant
to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or
lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice,
whether or not such right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this ordinance, the storage,
use or other consumption in this County of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a transactions
tax under any state-administered transactions and use tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of aircraft and
used or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the use of such
aircraft as common carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation
under a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the
laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign government. This exemption
is in addition to the exemptions provided in sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price
pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the tangible
personal property arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such
property for any period of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the
property for an amount fixed by a lease prior to the operative date of this
ordinance.

LA 043-023

(Continued on next page)

PROPOSED ORDINANCE OF MEASURE H (Continued)

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs 3 and 4 of this section, storage, use, or
other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power over,
tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a
contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or
lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice,
whether or not such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph 7, a retailer engaged in business in the
County shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible
personal property, unless the retailer ships or delivers the property into the
County or participates within the County in making the sale of the property,
including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving the order, either directly or
indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer in the County or through any
representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the County
under the authority of the retailer.

7.	“A retailer engaged in business in the County” shall also include any
retailer of any of the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to
Chapter 1 (commencing with section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code,
aircraft licensed in compliance with section 21411 of the Public Utilities
Code, or undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with
section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to collect use
tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at
an address in the County.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit against that
tax any transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a
County imposing, or retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code with respect to the sale to the
person of the property the storage, use or other consumption of which is subject
to the use tax.

E.	When contracting with the State Board of Equalization pursuant to section
4.73.080 to administer the tax imposed by this ordinance, it shall be the County’s
intent, and any agreement shall ensure, that the combined rate limit specified in
Revenue and Taxation Code section 7251.1 is not exceeded in any district within
the County that has imposed a transactions and use tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code in effect on or before the effective
date of this ordinance. The agreement shall include that appropriate steps are
taken by the Board of Equalization to ensure that the County tax imposed by this
ordinance, when aggregated with all other transactions and use taxes imposed
pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code within that
district, will 1) not cause the rate of the transactions and use tax within the
district to exceed the combined rate limit; 2) not cause any person subject to the
tax imposed by this ordinance to pay more than the legally permissible combined

(Continued on next page)

PROPOSED ORDINANCE OF MEASURE H (Continued)

rate; and 3) have no impact on the revenue received by each district within the
County as the result of any transactions and use tax imposed by the district on or
prior to the effective date of this ordinance.

4.73.160 State Law Amendments.

All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this ordinance to Part 1 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and
which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part
of this ordinance, provided however, that no such amendment shall operate so as
to affect the rate of tax imposed by this ordinance.

4.73.170 Amendment of Ordinance.

Except for amendments that would increase the tax rate, impose the tax on
transactions and uses not previously subject to the tax (unless the amendment
occurs pursuant to Section 4.73.160), extend the tax, or be inconsistent with the
purposes of this ordinance, the Board of Supervisors may amend this ordinance
without submitting the amendment to the voters for approval.

4.73.180 Enjoining Collection Forbidden.

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in
any suit, action or proceeding in any court against the State or the County, or
against any officer of the State or the County, to prevent or enjoin the collection
under this ordinance, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.

4.73.190 Severability.

If any provision of this ordinance or the application thereof to any person or
circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the ordinance and the application
of such provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

4.73.200	Effective Date.

This ordinance relates to the levying and collecting of the County’s Transactions
and Use Tax to Prevent and Combat Homelessness and shall take effect
immediately upon approval by a majority of the electorate voting in an election
on this ordinance.

4.73.201	Execution.

The Chair of the Board of Supervisors is authorized to attest to the adoption of
this ordinance by the voters of the County.

I hereby certify that the foregoing ordinance was PASSED, APPROVED and
ADOPTED by the people of the County of Los Angeles voting on the 7th day of
March, 2017.

LA 043-025

STATEMENT OF VIOLETA ALVAREZ

CANDIDATE FOR MEMBER OF THE CITY COUNCIL
BELL CITY GENERAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION

Age:	50

Occupation:	Businesswoman

I have lived in Bell for over 30 years. I remember when Bell was an amazing place to
work, live and raise a family.

Given the corruption and scandals that have tarnished the city’s image, I believe with
the right leadership, we can make Bell great again.

Thanks to many of you, I was elected to the city council in 2011. I served as
councilmember, Vice-Mayor, and Mayor bringing about positive changes, and helped
clean up corruption at City Hall.

While I was Mayor, the “New Bell” was making progress. Under my leadership, we
worked with the business community and even sold commercial property for
$50,000,000 dollars which helped save our city from going bankrupt, and created new
jobs.

Today many people have complained about the lack of progress, the “favoritism” and
unfair treatment of residents and local businesses. Politicians need to serve the people
and not special interest.

I believe in transparency and accountability. We don’t have to wait 10, 20, or 30 years
to make progress that will benefit Bell now.

With your support, I would like to be “your voice” and represent those people who have
not been heard.

Thank you and God Bless.

Violeta Alvarez

violeta4bellcouncil.com

CS-011479-1

LA 043-026

DECLARACION DE VIOLETA ALVAREZ

CANDIDATA PARA MIEMBRO DEL CONCEJO MUNICIPAL
ELECCION MUNICIPAL GENERAL DE LA CIUDAD DE BELL

Edad: 50

Ocupacion:	Mujer	de	Negocios

He vivido en Bell por mas de 30 anos. Recuerdo cuando Bell era un lugar increible
para trabajar, vivir y formar una familia.

Dada la corrupcion y los escandalos que han mancillado la imagen de la ciudad,
creo que con el liderazgo correcto, podemos hacer que Bell vuelva a ser una gran
ciudad.

Gracias a muchos de ustedes, fui elegida para formar parte del concejo municipal
en 2011. He prestado servicios como miembro del concejo, Vice-Alcaldesa, y
Alcaldesa implementando cambios positivos, y he ayudado a eliminar la
corrupcion en el Ayuntamiento.

Mientras era Alcaldesa, la “Nueva Bell” estaba progresando. Bajo mi liderazgo,
trabajamos con la comunidad comercial e incluso vendimos propiedades
comerciales por $50,000,000 dolares lo que ayudo a evitar que nuestra ciudad se
fuera a la quiebra, y genero nuevos empleos.

Hoy mucha gente se ha quejado de la falta de progreso, el “favoritismo” y el
tratamiento injusto a los residentes y comercios locales. Los politicos necesitan
servir a la gente no un interes especial.

Creo en la transparencia y la responsabilidad. No tenemos que esperar 10, 20, o
30 anos para hacer progresos que beneficiarian a Bell ahora.

Con su apoyo, me gustaria ser “su voz” y representar a aquellas personas que no
han sido escuchadas.

Gracias y que Dios lo Bendiga.

Violeta Alvarez

violeta4bellcouncil.com

CS-011479-1

LA 043-027

STATEMENT OF SUSANA LOPEZ

CANDIDATE FOR MEMBER OF THE CITY COUNCIL
BELL CITY GENERAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION

Age:	35

Occupation:	Immigration	Legal	Assistant

I am seeking election to the Bell City Council because I believe government
should serve the needs of all community members. I first became involved in
local government during the Bell scandal of 2010. As a community leader
I fought corruption alongside Bell residents and saved our local police
department. As a councilmember I plan to engage community members and
create a participatory democracy. I believe that by working hard together we can
strengthen our economy, protect public safety and ensure government
transparency. I would be honored to have your vote and serve our community.

-Susana Lopez

LA 043-028

DECLARACION DE SUSANA LOPEZ

CANDIDATA PARA MIEMBRO DEL CONCEJO MUNICIPAL
ELECCION MUNICIPAL GENERAL DE LA CIUDAD DE BELL

Edad: 35

Ocupacion:	Asistente	Legal	para Inmigracion

Me postulo para la eleccion para el Concejo Municipal de Bell porque creo que
el gobierno debe servir a las necesidades de todos los miembros de la
comunidad. Me involucre por primera vez con el gobierno local durante el
escandalo de Bell de 2010. Como lider comunitaria luche contra la corruption
junto a los residentes de Bell y salve a nuestro departamento de politia local.
Como miembro del concejo tengo planes de comprometer a miembros de la
comunidad y crear una democracia participativa. Creo que si trabajamos juntos
con ahinco podemos fortalecer nuestra economia, proteger la seguridad publica
y garantizar la transparencia del gobierno. Estaria honrada de contar con su voto
y servir a nuestra comunidad.

-Susana Lopez

LA 043-029

STATEMENT OF ANA MARIA QUINTANA

CANDIDATE FOR MEMBER OF THE CITY COUNCIL
BELL CITY GENERAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION

Occupation:	Councilwoman/Attorney

It has been my goal as your councilmember to better our beloved Bell. Fve
worked to stop waste in our government by reviewing every single contract;
supported economic development and job training; and brought resources so our
residents can have an improved quality of life. As a result of just some of the
work we’ve done together:

-	city council meetings are broadcast and the budget is available for anyone to
review online;

-	the local Slawson Southeast Occupational Center was saved;

-	our youth have learned civic pride and responsibility, spending thousands of
hours cleaning up our city through “Rebuilding Bell One Block at a
Time”; and

-	our city is coming together to address important issues confronting our
community, such as health, immigration and civil rights.

For the next four years, Bell not only needs leadership that will fight for what’s
right under Bell’s Charter, but also fight to make sure residents are treated fairly
under the nation’s Constitution. As a lawyer, councilmember, educator and
organizer, I will use my skills to better our community and our country.

Our city has turned the corner. With your help, we’ll continue to improve Bell.

I respectfully ask for your vote.

Ana Maria Quintana

www.quintanaforbell.com

LA 043-030

DECLARACION DE ANA MARIA QUINTANA

CANDIDATA PARA MIEMBRO DEL CONCEJO MUNICIPAL
ELECCION MUNICIPAL GENERAL DE LA CIUDAD DE BELL

Ocupacion:	Concejala/Abogada

Ha sido mi objetivo como su miembro del concejo mejorar a nuestra amada Bell.
He trabajado para detener el despilfarro en nuestro gobierno al revisar cada uno
de los contratos; apoye el desarrollo economico y la capacitacion para el empleo;
y traje recursos para que nuestros residentes puedan tener una mejor calidad de
vida. Como resultado de tan solo parte del trabajo que hemos hecho juntos:

-	las reuniones del concejo municipal se transmiten y el presupuesto esta
disponible para que cualquiera lo revise en linea;

-	se salvo el Centro Ocupacional Slawson Southeast local;

-	nuestros jovenes han aprendido el orgullo y la responsabilidad tivica, y
dedican miles de horas a limpiar nuestra ciudad a traves del programa
"Reconstruyendo Bell Cuadra por Cuadra”; y

-	nuestra ciudad se esta uniendo para abordar problemas importantes que
enfrenta nuestra comunidad, como salud, inmigracion y derechos civiles.

Durante los proximos cuatro anos, Bell no solo necesita liderazgo que luche por
lo que es correcto segun la Carta Constitutiva de Bell, sino que luche para
asegurarse de que los residentes sean tratados de manera equitativa segun la
Constitution nacional. Como abogada, miembro del concejo, educadora y
organizadora, usare mis habilidades para mejorar nuestra comunidad y nuestro
pais.

Nuestra ciudad ha dado un giro. Con su ayuda, seguiremos mejorando a Bell.
Respetuosamente le pido su voto.

Ana Maria Quintana
www.quintanaforbell.com

LA 043-031

STATEMENT OF ALICIA ROMERO

CANDIDATE FOR MEMBER OF THE CITY COUNCIL
BELL CITY GENERAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION

Age:	47

Occupation:	School	Dean

I am Alicia Romero- proud resident of Bell for 47 years. I am your neighbor
and currently have the honor of serving as your Mayor. When I first ran 4 years
ago, I made a commitment to stabilizing, improving and planning for the future
of Bell. In my first term, I learned of the obstacles and challenges
(fiscal, administrative, legal, and political) that cities face. However, through the
hard work of the past 4 years, our city is in a better situation today and is poised
for future improvements and development. I am committed to making Bell a
sustainable and thriving city.

I am proud of my voting record, which has demonstrated that I am an advocate
for the residents of Bell. I am not political, nor self-serving. My job is to
represent and serve our community and move Bell toward progress in the most
efficient and expedient way.

I have always maintained an open door policy- taking into account the concerns
of all residents; with your support, I will continue to meet with residents face to
face.

Safety, fiscal responsibility and business growth are the targeted areas that I will
focus on further. Our major accomplishments have been in staffing and training,
reorganization of departments, maintaining the city’s infrastructure of our
streets, future financial planning, review of policy and city social and cultural
events, just to name a few. I will continue to do my very best as an individual and
I will work with the other council members to move Bell forward.

My lengthy career as a school dean, academic counselor and teacher has granted
me the opportunity to serve local communities in the different capacities. My
experience, skills and responsibilities have prepared me to serve you on the city
council. I am prepared to plan, problem-solve, interface with the public, advocate
for social justice, work collaboratively in an organization and provide leadership
for the community.

LA 043-032

DECLARACION DE ALICIA ROMERO

CANDIDATA PARA MIEMBRO DEL CONCEJO MUNICIPAL
ELECCION MUNICIPAL GENERAL DE LA CIUDAD DE BELL

Edad:	47

Ocupacion:	Decana Escolar

Soy Alicia Romero- orgullosa residente de Bell desde hace 47 anos. Soy su
vecina y actualmente tengo el honor de servirle como su Alcaldesa. Cuando me
postule por primera vez hace 4 anos, asumi el compromiso de estabilizar,
mejorar y planificar para el futuro de Bell. En mi primer mandato, aprendi sobre
los obstaculos y dificultades (fiscales, administrativas, legales, y politicas) que
enfrentan las ciudades. Sin embargo, a traves del esforzado trabajo de los ultimos
4 anos, nuestra ciudad esta hoy en una mejor situation y esta preparada para
mejoras y desarrollo futuros. Me comprometo a hacer que Bell sea una ciudad
sustentable y prospera.

Estoy orgullosa de mi registro de votos, que ha demostrado que soy una
defensora de los residentes de Bell. No soy pohtica, ni busco mi propio-interes.
Mi trabajo es representar y servir a nuestra comunidad y llevar a Bell hacia el
progreso de la manera mas eficiente y expeditiva.

Siempre he mantenido una pohtica de puertas abiertas- teniendo en cuenta las
inquietudes de los residentes; con su apoyo, seguire reuniendome cara a cara con
los residentes.

Seguridad, responsabilidad fiscal y crecimiento comercial son las areas objetivo
donde me enfocare adicionalmente. Nuestros principals logros han estado en la
dotation de personal y capacitacion, reorganization de departamentos,
mantenimiento de la infraestructura de nuestras calles de la ciudad, planificacion
financiera futura, revision de politicas y eventos sociales y culturales de la ciudad,
para mencionar tan solo algunos. Seguire haciendo lo mejor posible como
individuo y trabajare con los demas miembros del concejo para hacer avanzar a
Bell.

Mi prolongada carrera como decana escolar, consejera academica y maestra me
ha brindado la oportunidad de servir a comunidades locales en las distintas
capacidades. Mi experiencia, habilidades y responsabilidades me han preparado
para servirle en el concejo municipal. Estoy preparada para planificar, resolver-
problemas, hacer interfaz con el publico, defender la justicia social, trabajar de
manera colaborativa en una organization y proveer liderazgo para la comunidad.

LA 043-033

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE T

Measure T permits the levying generally on visitors to the City of no more than a
twelve percent (12%) tax on hotel/motel charges paid within the City of Bell. The
actual tax rate will be established by ordinance of the majority of the members of
the City Council but could not exceed the 12% cap. The tax is levied only on
persons staying at a hotel or motel in the City for thirty days or less - the tax is
not imposed on City of Bell property owners.

Measure T was placed on the ballot by the City Council. The City Council has
heard a great deal from the community about their desire for better local
services, especially public safety, streets and pothole repair, and community
beautification. Measure T is estimated to annually generate (if the maximum tax
rate of twelve percent (12%) is levied and with approximately 163 hotel/motel
rooms in the city) approximately $285,000 per year to be deposited into the City’s
General Fund, to be used for general City purposes including law enforcement,
street repairs and community development.

This type of tax is known as a transient occupancy tax, or “TOT,” and is common
in many California cities. For example, the neighboring City of Commerce has a
transient occupancy tax of twelve percent (12%), the neighboring City of Bell
Gardens has a transient occupancy tax of eight percent (8%), and the transient
occupancy tax paid in many California cities is twelve percent (12%) or higher.

The proposed TOT will provide the City of Bell with locally-controlled funding
for City services that are protected by law from the State Legislature.

Measure T proposes amending existing Chapter 3.24 of Title 3 of the Bell
Municipal Code, and repealing Ordinance 1022 which was passed in 1990 by the
City Council to suspend collection of the then existing TOT which was 8%.
Measure T reserves the right of the Council to make changes to the TOT not
affecting the maximum rate approved by the voters.

This measure will take effect only if a majority of those voting on this ballot
measure cast a “Yes” vote at the March 7, 2017 general municipal election.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure T. If you desire a copy
of the ordinance or measure, please call the election official’s office at
(323) 588-6211 and a copy will be mailed to you at no cost.

NO ARGUMENTS WERE SUBMITTED FOR OR AGAINST THIS MEASURE

LA 043-034

PROPOSED ORDINANCE OF MEASURE T

AN ORDINANCE ENACTED BY A VOTE OF THE ELECTORATE OF THE
CITY OF BELL, CALIFORNIA, AMENDING CHAPTER 3.24 OF TITLE 3 OF
THE BELL MUNICIPAL CODE, AND REPEALING ORDINANCE 1022, TO
PERMIT IMPOSITION OF A TAX OF UP TO TWELVE PERCENT (12%) ON
HOTEL/MOTEL CHARGES WITHIN THE CITY OF BELL

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF BELL DO ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. Ordinance 1022 adopted by the City Council of the City of Bell in
1990 is hereby repealed in its entirety and is rendered null and void, and Section
3.24.160 of Chapter 3.24 of Title 3 of the Bell Municipal Code is hereby repealed
in its entirety as follows (deleted text in strike through):

“3.24.160 Suspension.

The provisions of this chapter, in their entirety, shall be suspended during such
time as the provisions of Section 5.08.010(N) of this code, relating to business
license taxes imposed on motels and hotels, are in full force and effect. If Section
5.08.010(N) is declared invalid by a final judgment of a court of competent
jurisdiction, or is otherwise repealed or rescinded, the provisions of this chapter
shall be deemed, for all purposes, to be in full force and effect, as of the effective
date of a judgment of invalidity, or the act of repeal or rescission.”

SECTION 2. Section 3.24.160 (Amendment) is hereby added to Chapter 3.24
of Title 3 of the Bell Municipal Code as follows:

“Section 3.24.160 Amendment

For purposes of carrying out the purposes of this chapter the city council retains
the full right to revise, change or amend this chapter to the same extent as other
city ordinances, provided that the city council may not increase in any manner
the rate of taxation above the maximum rate permitted in Section 3.24.030
without approval by a vote of the People pursuant to Article XIII C of the
California Constitution and Section 9217 of the Elections Code.”

SECTION 3. Section 3.24.030 (Rate) of Chapter 3.24 of Title 3 of the Bell
Municipal Code is hereby amended to read in its entirety as follows (new text is
identified in bold & italics, deleted text in strike through):

“Section 3.24.030 Rate

For the privilege of occupancy in any hotel, each transient is subject to and shall
pay a tax in the amount established by ordinance of the majority of the members of
the city council, provided the rate shall not exceed of eight twelve percent of the rent
charged by the operator. Such tax constitutes a debt owed by the transient to the
city which is extinguished only by payment to the operator or to the city. The
transient shall pay the tax to the operator of the hotel at the time

LA 043-035

(Continued on next page)

PROPOSED ORDINANCE OF MEASURE T (Continued)

the rent is paid. If the rent is paid in installments, a proportionate share of the
tax shall be paid with each installment. The unpaid tax shall be due upon the
transient’s ceasing to occupy space in the hotel.”

SECTION 4. SEVERABILITY. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, or
phrase of this ordinance is for any reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional
by a decision of any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision will not affect
the validity of the remaining portions of this ordinance. The People hereby
declare that the People would have passed this ordinance and each and every
section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase not declared invalid or
unconstitutional, without regard to whether any portion of the ordinance would
be subsequently declared invalid or unconstitutional.

SECTION 5. EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCE. If a majority of the voters
of the City of Bell voting at the General Municipal Election of March 7, 2017
vote in favor of this ordinance, then this ordinance shall become a valid and
binding ordinance of the City of Bell, and shall be considered as adopted upon
the date that the vote is declared by the City Council of the City of Bell, and this
Ordinance shall go into effect ten (10) days after that date, pursuant to Election
Code section 9217

SECTION 6. CITY COUNCIL AUTHORITY TO AMEND AND/OR REPEAL.

This is a City Council sponsored initiative ordinance which otherwise would only
be subject to amendment by the voters of the City of Bell. However, pursuant to
Section 9217 of the California Elections Code, the People reserve to the City
Council the express right and authority to amend or repeal the ordinance in any
manner that does not increase a tax rate, or otherwise constitute a tax increase,
for which voter approval is required by Article XIII C of the California
Constitution.

SECTION 7. EXECUTION. The Mayor of the City of Bell is hereby authorized
and ordered to attest to the adoption of the ordinance by the voters of the City of
Bell by signing where indicated below.

I hereby certify that the foregoing Ordinance was PASSED, APPROVED and
ADOPTED by the People of the City of Bell, California voting on the 7th day of
March, 2017.

CITY OF BELL:

ALICIA ROMERO

Mayor

ATTEST:

ANGELA BUSTAMANTE
Interim City Clerk

APPROVED AS TO FORM:

DAVID ALESHIRE
City Attorney

LA 043-036

jintH Next time you move...
° °°' register again to vote!

1.	Online at: lavote.net

2.	Department of Motor Vehicles Offices

3.	Post Offices

4.	Libraries

5.	City Clerk Offices

6.	Registrar-Recorder/County Clerk

Please go to lavote.net or call toll free 1-800-815-2666 option 2 to find
your current registration status and how to obtain a voter registration card.

You must be registered at least 15 days prior to any election in order to
vote in that election.

FP-OPT3-E

The page would have been blank due to printing layouts. The Registrar-Recorder/County Clerk
has used this page to provide additional information.

LA 043-037

Save time and money!

Receive your Official
Sample Ballot by email

Visit l3VOt6.net to subscribe

FP-OPT2-E

The page would have been blank due to printing layouts. The Registrar-Recorder/County Clerk
has used this page to provide additional information.

LA 043-038

* Election information
Cal I us: 1 -800-815-2666

You may obtain information about specific election services by calling toll free
and selecting the option number shown for the service requested.

Option 1

Polling place information

Option 2

To register to vote

Verify registration or to request a sample ballot
Vote by mail ballot

Option 3

Multilingual services
Sample ballot translations

Option 4

Election Information

Option 5

Voter fraud/report illegal activity

Option 7

To become a Pollworker

Campaign Financial Disclosure..........................(562)	462-2339

Campaign financial statement filing requirements for candidates, committees
and office holders.

TDD (Hearing Impaired).

,(562) 462-2259

FP-OPT1-E

The page would have been blank due to printing layouts. The Registrar-Recorder/County Clerk
has used this page to provide additional information.

LA 043-039

The Los Angeles County Registrar-Recorder/County Clerk’s office is committed
to providing all voters a private and independent voting experience. To view the
Department’s accessibility services, go to lavote.net.

Assistive devices at every poll

Easy grip dexterity ball

Magnifying device

Accessible parking
signage

Curbside voting

Curbside voting

-------I Jl«r gfl



Check for the access symbol on the back cover of this booklet to see if
your polling place has an accessible entrance or call the number below.

Important telephone numbers

General information: (800) 815-2666
Polling place accessibility: (800) 815-2666 option 7
CD/Cassette recordings: (800) 815-2666 option 3
TDD: (562) 462-2259

FP-LP01-E

LA 043-040

RETURN ADDRESS

DID YOU SIGN YOUR APPLICATION?

Place
1 st Class
Postage
Stamp here

☆ OFFICIALS ,	*	*

* ELECTION MAIL

Authorized by the U. S. Postal Service ^
* ☆ ☆ ®

VOTE BY MAIL UNIT

REGISTRAR-RECORDER/COUNTY CLERK
PO BOX 30450

LOS ANGELES CA 90030-0450

/ Application to Vote By Mail

March 7, 2017 - Consolidated Municipal and Special Elections

Application must be received by February 28, 2017

Home address:-------------------------------------------------------------------

(As registered)	Number	and	Street	City

Mail my ballot to:-------------------------------------------------------------------------

(If different from above)	Number	and	Street	(or P.O. Box)	City

I have not applied for a Vote By Mail ballot for this election by any other means.

X

Signature of applicant (Must be signed to be processed)

Zip Code

Zip Code

Date

■ I want to be a Permanent
Vote By Mail voter.

You will automatically receive
a ballot and vote by mail
every election

( )________________________________

Daytime Phone Number

Notice: If the person named on the sample ballot is not at the address, please help keep the voter rolls current and save taxpayer dollars
by returning this sample ballot to your mail carrier.

CO	Registrar-Recorder/County Clerk

^	P.O. Box 30450

°	Los Angeles, CA 90030-0450

Change service requested

Polls open from 7 am to 8 pm
Your polling place is:^

qoejap pue pioj