Kern Valley

We Care For You" V ^ 'IT' Healthcare District

6412 Laurel Aye - ML Mesa - E# Box 1628, Lake Isabella, CA 93240- (760) 3792681 Fax (760) 179-0066

RESOLUTION NO. 17-01

RESOLUTION ORDERING A SPECIAL PARCEL TAX ELECTION,
ESTABLISHING SPECIFICATIONS OF THE ELECTION ORDER, AND
REQUESTING CONSOLIDATION WITH OTHER ELECTIONS

RESOLVED, by the Board of Directors (the "Board") of the Kern Valley Healthcare District
(the "District"), as follows:

WHEREAS, District was formed in 1964 pursuant to section 32000 et seq. of the California
Health & Safety Code, for the purpose of operating the Kern Valley Hospital (the "Hospital") and
providing services to help promote the health of the residents of the District;

WHEREAS, the District has provided continuous emergency, medical, acute care and
related health care services to local residents for nearly 50 years;

WHEREAS, District area can easily be cut off from outside help during major fires,
earthquakes, or other disasters and the Hospital may be the only option for victims of heart
attacks, strokes, recreational injuries and other emergencies;

WHEREAS, the District cannot increase its revenues due to the low reimbursement rates
of payors, including governmental programs, commercial insurers and health maintenance
organizations and the District will no longer be able to ensure continued local access to
emergency room care, acute hospital care and other medical services for residents of the District
unless some form of sustained financial assistance is provided;

WHEREAS, Section 4 of Article XIIIA of the California Constitution and section 50075 et
seq. and section 53730.1 of the California Government Code authorize healthcare districts to levy
a special tax to raise funds for the purpose of conducting its business upon the approval of two-
thirds of the votes cast by voters voting upon such a special tax proposal; and

WHEREAS, it has been determined that the Board call a special election on June 6, 2017,
at which will be submitted to the qualified voters of the District a measure to authorize a special
tax for the purpose of providing vital moneys to fund the construction and equipping of future
facilities of the District, including, but not limited to, improvements to insure seismic safety, and
to secure long-term borrowings for such future capital needs of the District.

NOW, THEREFORE, the Board of Directors of the Kern Valley Healthcare District does
hereby resolve, determine, and order as follows:

1.	The District hereby proposes to adopt a parcel tax, as authorized under section 50075 et
seq. and section 53730.1 of the California Government Code.

2.	This resolution shall stand as the order to the Kern County Registrar of Voters to call an
election within the boundaries of the District on June 6, 2017, for approval of the measure
contained in Section 3 hereof. The District hereby requests the Board of Supervisors of Kern
County (the "County") to consolidate that election with all other elections to be held on such date,
on the measure set forth in Section 3.

3.	The District hereby sets the full text of the measure to be placed on the ballot for die
election of June 6,2017, as follows:

(a)	The District will levy a parcel tax on each taxable parcel of land within the
District, at an annual rate of $98 per parcel. The parcel tax will terminate after the year
2057.

(b)	The purpose of the parcel tax will be to maintain local access to advanced, life-
saving emergency medical care at Kern Valley Hospital for victims of accidents, heart
attacks, strokes and other medical emergencies; keep medical equipment, technology and
hospital facilities up-to-date; expand the Emergency Room; and attract and retain
qualified doctors and medical specialists.

(c)	The parcel tax may be used to fund future capital needs of the District or to
secure long-term borrowing for future capital needs of the District.

(d)	The District's appropriations limit will be established at an amount equal to
the available funding during the first year of the parcel tax at the rate of $98 per parcel.

(e)	Taxable parcels are those that appear on the annual secured County property

tax roll.

(f)	There will be no exemptions from the levy of the parcel tax based upon number
of parcels owned by an individual owner, contiguous parcels or otherwise.

(g)	The parcel tax revenues will be deposited into a fund held by the District for
the purpose of funding future capital needs of the District and securing long-term
borrowings for future capital needs of the District.

(h)	The District will cause to be filed an annual report with the Board, commencing
on January 1,2018, and annually thereafter, which report will be for the fiscal year ended
June 30 of the prior year and contain information regarding the amount of parcel tax
revenues collected and expended. (i)

(i)	Since the District may chose to secure long-term borrowings with the parcel tax
revenues, pursuant to sections 53410 and 53411 of the California Government Code, the
Board hereby finds, determines and directs as follows:

(i)	The purpose of any securities to be secured by parcel tax revenues
shall be solely to finance future capital needs of the District.

(ii)	The Board hereby provides that at the time the securities are
authorized by the Board for issuance and sale, the Board shall provide, in such
issuance resolution or other issuance documents, that the proceeds of the securities
shall be used only for future capital projects.

(iii)	The Board hereby provides that at the time the securities are
authorized by the Board for issuance and sale, the Board shall provide in such
issuance resolution or other issuance documents for the creation of one or more
funds or accounts (which may include subaccounts) into which the proceeds of the
securities, or each series of securities as the case may be, shall be deposited. The
securities may be issued in one or more series consistent with applicable law, and
the provisions and restrictions of these bond accountability provisions shall apply
to each such series of the securities.

(iv)	The District's chief financial officer shall have the responsibility
(once the securities are authorized and issued) to provide to the Board, no less
often than annually, a written report which shall contain at least the following
information:

(1)	The amount of the proceeds received and expended within
the identified period of time. If no securities have been issued and sold, the
report may simply note such situation; and

(2)	In the event that securities have been issued and sold, and
proceeds therefore received, the report shall include the status of the
acquisition, construction, or financing of the capital projects to be financed
with the proceeds of such securities or series of securities.

Such report may be combined with other periodic reports which include
the same information, including, but not limited to, periodic reports made to the
California Debt and Investment Advisory Commission or continuing disclosure
reports or other reports made in connection with the securities or any series
thereof.

(v)	Proceeds from the sale of the securities shall be used only for costs
incurred in connection with funding of future capital projects and the cost of the
issuance of the securities issued to finance future capital projects, and not for any
other purpose, including staff and administrator salaries and other operating
expenses.

(vi)	The Board shall establish an independent citizens7 oversight committee
to ensure securities proceeds are expended only for future capital projects.

These accountability provisions shall apply only until all securities, or each
series of securities, are redeemed or defeased, but if the securities or any series of
securities are refunded, such provisions shall apply until all such refunding
securities are redeemed or defeased.

4.	The District hereby sets the abbreviated ballot form of the measure appearing in Section
3 as follows:

To maintain local access to advanced, life-saving emergency medical care at Kern
Valley Hospital for victims of accidents, heart attacks, strokes and other medical
emergencies; keep medical equipment, technology and hospital facilities up-to-date;
expand the Emergency Room; and attract and retain qualified doctors and medical
specialists; shall Kern Valley Healthcare District establish a parcel tax of $98 per year, with
independent citizens' oversight, mandatory audits, no money for hospital salaries, and all
funds dedicated to improving Kern Valley Hospital?

5.	The District hereby proposes to establish its appropriations limit under Article XIIIB of
the California Constitution at an amount equal to the amount of available funding for the first
year of the parcel tax at the rate of $98 per parcel. "Available funding" will have the same meaning
under this Resolution as is given the term "proceeds of taxes" in Article XIIIB of the California
Constitution.

6.	The County Treasurer-Tax Collector will collect the parcel tax at the same time that it
collects the general and ad valorem taxes, and along with the collection of those taxes. The parcel
tax will be subject to the same penalties as general and ad valorem taxes. 7

7.	The District will impose the parcel tax only if two-thirds (2/3) of those voting approve

it.

PASSED AND ADOPTED this 1st day of March, 2017, at a meeting of the Board of
Directors by the following vote:

AYES:	Derr, Knight, Casas, Busch

NOES:

ABSENT:	Wright

President of the Board

ATTEST:

-5-