COUNTY OF PLUMAS

Eastern Plumas Rural Fire
Protection District

Measure “C”

Voter Information Guide
UNIFORM DISTRICT ELECTION

VOTE and RETURN
YOUR OFFICIAL BALLOT
By 8:00 p.m. Election Day
Tuesday, November 7, 2017
By Mail or In Person to:

Kathy Williams
Plumas County Clerk-Recorder
Registrar of Voters
520 Main Street, Room 102
Quincy, CA 95971

Further Information:
530-283-6256
or

844-676-VOTE

EASTERN PLUMAS RURAL FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT

NOVEMBER 7, 2017
UNIFORM DISTRICT ELECTION
INFORMATION

An election will be held on Tuesday, November 7, 2017 within the
boundaries of the Eastern Plumas Rural Fire Protection District.
Voters in the district will receive a Vote by Mail ballot along with this
Voter Information Guide. A postage paid return Identification
Envelope is also provided to return your voted ballot. No stamp is
necessary.

YOUR SIGNATURE and Plumas County residence address are
required on the return Identification Envelope for your ballot to be
counted.

Ballots must be postmarked no later than November 7, 2017, Election
Day. We advise you to mail your ballot early to avoid any postal
delays.

You may also return your ballot at Ballot Return Box located outside
of the Courthouse at 520 Main Street, Quincy, California, or in Room
102 of the Courthouse.

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS
EASTERN PLUMAS RURAL FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT

MEASURE“C”

This measure would authorize the Eastern Plumas Rural Fire
Protection District (“the District”) to levy a special parcel tax on
each parcel of real property located within the District in the
amount of $65.00 each fiscal year beginning in fiscal year
2018-2019, for the specific purpose of providing fire protection
and prevention, emergency medical response, and hazardous
materials emergency response. Parcels exempt from property tax
are excluded from paying the tax. The taxes will be collected on
the Plumas County property tax bill in the same manner as county
property taxes. Pursuant to Government Code Sections 50075.1
and 50075.3, proceeds from the special tax are subject to
statutory accountability measures which include, but are not
limited to, deposit to a separate account and an annual report by
the local agency detailing the amount of the funds collected and
expended. The tax authorization will continue indefinitely. While
not stated in the ballot question, District Resolution #2017-002
provides that the initial $65.00 tax rate may be increased by the
District’s board of directors in future years by the amount of
change in the Western States Consumer Price Index or by three
percent (3%), whichever is less. This measure will pass if two-
thirds of the votes cast vote “Yes.” A “YES” vote favors imposing
the special tax. A “NO” vote opposes imposing the special tax.

This measure was placed on the ballot by the board of directors
of the District.

Dated: August 25, 2017

/s/ R. Craig Settlemire, County Counsel, Plumas County

No Argument For or Against Measure “C” were filed.

Full Text of Special Tax Measure Eastern Plumas Rural Fire
Protection District Special Tax For Fire Suppression, Protection,
Prevention And Emergency Medical Response Services

The Eastern Plumas Rural Fire Protection District is responsible for fire
protection and emergency medical response services within the district

In order to maintain fire protection and medical emergency response
service, and to adequately train and equip firefighters, the District
proposes to levy a special tax on all properties including residential,
vacant, commercial, and industrial within the District at the following
annual rate. If passed, this special tax would replace the current annual
benefit assessment charges as listed below:

	Proposed New Rate	Current Assessment to be Replaced	Total  Increase
Lake Davis	$65.00	$20.00	$45.00
All other areas of the District	$65.00	None	$65.00

The purpose of this tax will be to ensure continued local fire suppression
and protection as well as rapid emergency response services. The
revenues raised by this special tax will only be used to defray operating
expenses and capital improvement expenditures to accomplish the
foregoing purposes.

In order to help ensure that the revenues from the special tax grow in line
with the inflation adjusted cost of providing local fire protection and
emergency medical services, the tax rate may increase in future years by
annual amount not to exceed 3%, based upon changes in the Western
States Consumer Price Index (CPI) or 3% WHICH EVER IS LESS.
Under no circumstances can the cost of living adjustment be put in place
without the proposed modification of the fee being placed on the agenda
of the Eastern Plumas Rural Fire Protection District Board of Director’s
regular meeting with an opportunity for public input and discussion.

If the special tax is approved by two-thirds of the voters voting on the
measure, the District’s appropriations limit will be increased by the
amount of this voter-approved tax

Sample Ballot for the
Eastern Plumas Rural Fire Protection District
Uniform District Election on
November 7, 2017
Plumas County, California

INSTRUCTIONS TO VOTERS:

•	To vote you must darken the oval next to the word “YES”
or “NO”, using only black or blue ink. Do Not Use Red.

•	Do NOT place any mark or signature on the ballot that makes it
identifiable.

•	Do NOT cut or tear any portion of the ballot

•	If you mismark an oval or change your mind, exchange your
ballot for a new one.

VOTE LIKE THIS: •

MEASURE “C”

“Upon a two-thirds vote of approval, shall a special tax of $65.00
per fiscal year be imposed on each and every property
assessment on all property including residential, vacant,
commercial and industrial within the boundaries of Eastern
Plumas Rural Fire Protection District, excluding those properties
exempt from county property tax, for the sole purpose of
supplementing the funding of services for fire protection and
prevention, emergency medical response, hazardous materials
emergency response; commencing in fiscal year 2018-19, and
continuing indefinitely with tax proceeds to be collected and
apportioned along with the County property taxes.”

YES	O

NO	O

RESOLUTION TO ENACT THE EASTERN PLUMAS RURAL FIRE
PROTECTION DISTRICT SPECIAL TAX ON ALL TAXABLE PROPERTY
FOR THE PURPOSE OF PROVIDING FIRE PROTECTION, AND
EMERGENCY MEDICAL RESPONSE SERVICES INCLUDING FIRE
PREVENTION AND SUPPRESION, RESCUE AND OTHER SERVICES; AND
TO CALL AN ELECTION THEREON.

WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of the Eastern Plumas Rural Fire
Protection District (the “District”) finds and determines as follows:

A.	California Health and Safety Code Section 13910 provides that the fire
protection district board of directors may raise revenues pursuant to
law whenever revenues are inadequate to meet the costs of providing
services pursuant to Section 13862 for fire protection and prevention,
emergency medical services, and hazardous material emergency
response services;

B.	The present and anticipated revenues of the District are insufficient to
fund safe levels of the above mentioned services, for reasons to be
present in connection with the public hearing prior to adoption of this
resolution; and a tax rate of $65.00 per property assessment on all
property including residential, vacant, commercial and industrial is
estimated to generate sufficient supplemental funding to ensure a safe
level of services and includes the $2.50 per tax assessment annual
administrative charge for county collection of the tax.

C.	California Health and Safety Code Section 13911 authorizes a fire
protection district to levy a voter-approved special tax pursuant to
Government Code Section 50077, which requires an election and
approval by two-thirds of the voters voting.

D.	That the special property tax shall be used solely for the purpose of
providing fire protection, both prevention and suppression, emergency
medical response services within the District, for any responses
outside of the District under automatic/mutual aid agreements with
other fire suppression or emergency services agencies, and for any
Incidental expenses related to the collection of the tax.

E.	In accordance with Government Code Section 50075.3, the District’s
Secretary shall file a report with District Board of Directors at least
once a year. That annual report shall contain both of the following:

(a)	the amount of funds collected and expended; (b) the status of any
project required or authorized to be funded with the proceeds of the
special tax in accordance with this Section.

F.	In order to help ensure that the revenues from the special tax grow in
line with the inflation adjusted cost of providing local fire protection and
emergency medical services, the tax rate may increase in future years
by annual amount not to exceed 3%, based upon changes in the
Western States Consumer Price Index (CPI) or 3% WHICH EVER IS

LESS. Under no circumstances can the cost of living adjustment be
put in place without the proposed modification of the fee being
placed on the agenda of the Eastern Plumas Rural Fire Protection
District Board of Director’s regular meeting with an opportunity for
public input and discussion.

G.	Public Notice of hearing on this resolution was posted in the Portola
Reporter and in five locations on April 19, 2017 and a public hearing
was held on April 24, 2017.

NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED as follows;

1.	The District proposes that a special tax measure be submitted to
voters of the District as set forth below:

“Upon a two-thirds vote of approval, shall a special tax of $65.00 per fiscal
year be imposed on each and every property assessment on all property
including residential, vacant, commercial and industrial within the
boundaries of Eastern Plumas Rural Fire Protection District, excluding those
properties exempt from county property tax, for the sole purpose of
supplementing the funding of services for fire protection and prevention,
emergency medical response, hazardous materials emergency response;
commencing in fiscal year 2018-19, and continuing indefinitely with tax
proceeds to be collected and apportioned along with the County property
taxes.”

2.	The District request the Plumas County Board of Supervisors,
pursuant to Elections Code Section 10002, permit the Plumas
County Clerk to render services necessary to place on the
November 07, 2017 ballot pursuant to election Code Section
4000 and other relevant sections, as scheduled by the Clerk, with
costs to be reimbursed by the District.

The Foregoing resolution was passed and adopted on May 15, 2017 at a
meeting of the Board of Directors of the Eastern Plumas Rural Fire
Protection District by the following vote:

AYES: Chairperson Graham, Director Glenn Mallory and Director Lydia

Acosta

NOES: None

ABSENT OR NOT VOTING: Chairperson Pat Meyers
ATTEST:

IS/ Katy Martinez, Secretary /si Jeanne Graham, Chairperson

APPROVED AND SIGNED AT EPRFPD’S 05/15/2017 REGULAR BOARD
MEETING