Resolution No,: 17-059

Meeting Date: 05/03/17 (3)

RESOLUTION OF THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS OF THE COUNTY OF SAN

DIEGO CALLING FOR A SPECIAL MAIL-BALLOT ELECTION WITHIN
PERMANENTROAD DIVIS ION NO.1 0 00, ZONENO.117-
LEGEND ROCK, COUNTY OF SAN DIEGO, STATE OF CALIFORNIA FOR THE
PURPOSE OF IMPOSITION OF A SPECIAL TAX FOR ROAD MAINTENANCE

SERVICES

WHEREAS, the Board of Supervisors (the "Board") of the County of San Diego
(the "County"), on October 22, 1986 (14), Approved Formation of CSA 117 - Legend Rock
pursuant to the provisions of the County Service Area Law, Chapter 2.2 (commencing with
Section 25210.1) of Part 2, Division 2 of Title 3 of the Government Code; and

WHEREAS, On June 21,2000 (18), the Board adopted a resolution ordering the
dissolution of County Service Areas and Established Permanent Road Division Zones of
Benefit and transferred responsibilities of the Community Services Areas and their zones to
Countywide Permanent Road Division No. 1000 (a successor agency) as zones of benefit
and adopted an ORDINANCE NO. 9216 (NEW SERIES) PROVIDING A PROCEDURE
FOR FIXING AND COLLECTING CHARGES ON THE TAX ROLL FOR SERVICES
AND CONTINUING IN EFFECT THE PREVIOUSLY APPROVED MAXIMUM
CHARGE WITHIN SAN DIEGO COUNTYWIDE PERMANENT ROAD DIVISION NO.
1000, ZONE NO. 117 - LEGEND ROCK (“PRD Zone”); and

WHEREAS, pursuant to provisions of the Permanent Road Division Law (Streets
and Highways Code Sections 1160 through 1197), in particular Section 1169, the property
owners are allowed to petition the Board for a special tax to provide road maintenance; and

WHEREAS, a petition was received by the Department of Public Works on
February 6,2017 requesting a special tax election within the PRD Zone; and

WHEREAS, in order to proceed with the levy of the special tax, the matter must be
submitted to an election of the qualified electors of the PRD Zone pursuant to Section 1173
of the Streets and Highways Code, as provided in the form of special election ballot and by
this reference incorporated herein; and

WHEREAS, Section 4 of Article XIIIA of the California Constitution requires the
voters within the PRD Zone to approve by two-thirds of the votes cast, any special tax
before the special tax may be imposed, extended or increased within said PRD Zone; and

WHEREAS, Section 4000 of the California Elections Code provides that any local, special,
or consolidated election authorized by Article XIIIC of the California Constitution

may be conducted wholly by mail; and

WHEREAS, The Board of Supervisors desires to submit to the voters of Permanent
Road Division No. 1000, Zone No. 117 - Legend Rock the question of whether a special tax
for road maintenance shall be approved and levied within the PRD Zone; and

WHEREAS, The Board of Supervisors intends to levy the special taxes authorized
by this ballot measure only in the event that two-thirds of the votes cast by the qualified
voters within the PRD Zone, voting on said special tax ballot measure for road maintenance,
approve said measure.

NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS RESOLVED, DETERMINED AND ORDERED by the
Board of Supervisors of San Diego County as follows:

Section 1. The above recitals are true and correct, and the Board so finds and
determines.

Section 2. The Board proposes to levy parcel charges within the PRD Zone pursuant
to Streets and Highways Code Sections 1173 and 1179. These charges constitute special tax
within the meaning of Article XIII C, Section 4, of the California Constitution.

Section 3. The services proposed to be provided within the PRD Zone are road
maintenance and improvement or construction work necessary for ongoing maintenance or
any one or combination thereof.

Section 4. A detailed Special Tax Report is on file with the Department of Public

Works.

Section 5. An election to be conducted wholly by mail is hereby called and ordered
and will be held in the Permanent Road Division No. 1000, Zone No. 117 - Legend Rock on
June 30, 2017, at which there shall be submitted to the registered voters of said PRD Zone
the following question:

Ballot Measure: Shall the County of San Diego, commencing Fiscal
Year 2017-18, and annually thereafter, levy and collect a special tax on
real property within the boundaries of Permanent Road Division No.
1000, Zone No. 117 - Legend Rock, to provide road maintenance
services within said PRD Zone with the special tax to be at an initial rate
for the first 10-years in an amount not exceeding $1,400 per parcel and
starting on year 11 at a rate not exceeding $500 per parcel with a
provision for the increase of the special taxes imposed in any year by the
annual increase, if any, in the cost of living as measured by the Los
Angeles Construction Cost Index (LACCI) as published in the

Engineering News Record or comparable index for southern California
should the LACCI no longer be available?

□	Tax-YES

□	Tax-NO

Section 6. The Registrar of Voters is hereby designated as the official to conduct the
special mail-ballot election pursuant to the Permanent Road Division Law and California
Elections Code Sections 307 and 320 and the following provisions:

a)	The special election shall be held and conducted, and the votes canvassed and the
returns made, and the results determined, as provided herein; and in all particulars not
prescribed by this Resolution the special election shall be held and conducted and the votes
received and canvassed in the manner provided by law for the holding of special elections
consistent with the Permanent Road Division Law.

b)	All electorates within the PRD Zone registered to vote 15 days prior to the date of
the election, shall be qualified to vote upon the proposition to be submitted at the special
election.

c)	In accordance with Streets and Highways Code Section 1176, there shall be a
single precinct consisting of the area within the PRD Zone. The Registrar of Voters is
designated as judge for the precinct and delegated the authority to appoint up to two
additional judges to conduct the election. In the absence of the designation of additional
judges, the Registrar of Voters shall be deemed to act on behalf of the three Judge panel. The
special election shall be conducted as a mail-ballot election. All ballots shall be mailed by
the Registrar of Voters, and all voted ballots are required to be returned, in accordance with
Division 3 of the California Elections Code, in order to be valid and counted.

d)	Each voter desiring to vote in favor of the special tax to be submitted at the
special election shall mark a cross (x) or similar mark in the blank space next to the word
"TAX -YES" on the ballot to the right of the proposition; and each voter desiring to vote
against the proposition shall mark a cross (x) or similar mark in the blank space next to the
word "TAX -NO" on the ballot to the right of the proposition. The cross (x) or similar mark
may be marked with either pen or pencil.

e)	The Registrar of Voters shall commence the canvass of the returns of the special
election, report the returns, and certify the results at the County of San Diego Board of
Supervisors’ meeting to be held on July 19,2017, at 9 a.m., in Room 310, County
Administration Center, 1600 Pacific Highway, San Diego, California.

f)	The Director of the Department of Public Works shall provide notice of the
election in accordance with Streets and Highways Code Section 1174 and mailed notice in
accordance with Government Code Section 54930.

g) The Bo aid may thereupon declare the results of the special election, and shall
cause to be included in its minutes a statement of the results of the special election as
ascertained by the canvass.

Section 7. This resolution shall take effect immediately upon its passage.

Section 8. The Clerk shall certify to the passage and adoption of this Resolution and
enter it into the book of original resolutions.

APPROVED AS TO FORM AND LEGALITY

C

Thomas L. Bosworth, Sr. Deputy

ON MOTION of Supervisor Roberts, seconded by Supervisor Cox, the above Resolution
was passed and adopted by the Board of Supervisors, County of San Diego, State of
California, on this 03rd day of May, 2017, by the following vote:

AYES:	Cox, Jacob, Gaspar,	Roberts

ABSENT:	Horn

STATE OF CALIFORNIA)

County of San Diego)ss

I hereby certify that the foregoing is a full, true and correct copy of the Original
Resolution entered in the Minutes of the Board of Supervisors.

Resolution No. 17-059
Meeting Date: 05/03/17 (3)