Impartial Analysis - Measure D - Mystic Mine Road Community Services District

Measure D is a Mystic Mine Road Community Services District (“District”) special parcel tax
measure. Measure D was placed on the ballot by the Board of Directors for the Mystic Mine
Road Community Services District.

The Mystic Mine Road Community Services District currently levies an annual special tax in the
amount of $120 per year. Measure D seeks voter approval to increase the amount of the
annual special parcel tax on each parcel of taxable real property within the District, commencing
with fiscal year 2017/18.

The adjusted rate for the proposed special tax is $200 per year for fiscal year 2017/18 through
fiscal year 2020/21, and $250 per year for fiscal year 2021/22 and each fiscal year thereafter.
Revenue from the special tax will be used solely for the purpose of funding road maintenance
programs within the District.

The District may levy a special tax on real property within the District upon approval by two-
thirds of the votes cast on the special tax proposal. If two-thirds of the qualified electors voting
on this measure vote for approval, the special tax will be imposed annually at the adjusted rates
set forth above until repealed by the District Board or the voters.

If two-thirds of the qualified electors voting on this measure do not vote for approval, the
measure will fail. The District will not be authorized to increase the special tax and will continue
to levy the tax at the current tax rate.

A “yes" vote is a vote to approve the proposed increases in the special parcel tax.

A “no” vote is a vote to disapprove the proposed increases in the special parcel tax.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure D. If you desire a copy of the measure,
please call the Nevada County elections office at 530-265-1700 and a copy will be mailed at no
cost to you.

NOTICE OF ELECTION

NOTICE FROM THE NEVADA COUNTY CLERK-RECORDER-REGISTRAR OF VOTERS OF A DISTRICT MEASURE
TO BE VOTED ON AT A SPECIAL MAIL BALLOT ELECTION TO BE HELD ON TUESDAY, MARCH 7,2017 IN THE
MYSTIC MINE ROAD COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT OF THE COUNTY OF NEVADA REQUESTING THAT THE
VOTERS ADOPT THE SPECIAL TAX AND SPENDING LIMIT PROVIDED FOR IN RESOLUTION 2016-03 AND
DATES WITHIN WHICH ARGUMENTS AND REBUTTAL ARGUMENTS FOR AND AGAINST THE PROPOSED
MEASURE MUST BE FILED WITH THE NEVADA COUNTY CLERK-RECORDER-REGISTRAR OF VOTERS.

NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN by Gregory J. Diaz, Nevada County Clerk-Recorder-Registrar of Voters, in accordance
with the provisions of the Elections Laws of the State of California, that on Tuesday, March 7, 2017, there will be a
Mystic Mine Road Community Services District Special Mail Ballot Election.

MYSTIC MINE ROAD COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT MEASURE D

“Shall Resolution 2016-03 be approved establishing a special tax on each parcel of land within the District in the
amount of $200.00 per year, beginning with the 2017-18 fiscal year, and $250.00 per year beginning with the 2021 -
22 fiscal year, and each fiscal year thereafter, for the purpose of funding road maintenance programs within the
District, and further establish a spending limit in accordance with the provisions of Article XIIIB of the California
Constitution?”

Yes_____

No______

NOTICE IS FURTHER GIVEN that the Impartial Analysis prepared by Nevada County Counsel will be available for
public examination commencing December 30,2016 at the Nevada County Elections Office located at 950 Maidu
Avenue in Nevada City, California from the hours of 8:00 A.M. to 5 P.M.;

NOTICE IS FURTHER GIVEN that any written arguments for or against the measures to be submitted to the voters
must be filed with the Nevada County Clerk no later than 5:00 P.M. on Monday, January 9,2017. Arguments must
be signed and dated by the author(s) with a Statement of Accuracy per Election Code §9600. Arguments shall not
exceed 300 words;

NOTICE IS FURTHER GIVEN that when the Nevada County Clerk has selected the direct arguments for and
against said measures, the Nevada County Clerk shall send copies of the argument in favor of said measures to
the author(s) of the argument against and copies of the argument against to the author(s) of the argument in favor.
There will be a 10-day public examination period from Tuesday, January 10, 2017 to Thursday, January 19, 2017,
during which a qualified voter of the jurisdiction may seek a writ of mandate or an injunction requiring the County
Counsel’s Impartial Analysis or the direct arguments be amended or deleted;

NOTICE IS FURTHER GIVEN that rebuttal arguments shall not exceed 250 words and must be filed with the
Nevada County Clerk no later than 5:00 p.m. on Monday, January 16,2017 with a Statement of Accuracy per
Elections Code §9600. There will be a 10-day public examination period from Tuesday, January 17, 2017 to
Thursday, January 26, 2017, during which a qualified voter of the jurisdiction may seek a writ of mandate or an
injunction requiring the rebuttal arguments to be amended or deleted;

NOTICE IS FURTHER GIVEN that for the Mystic Mine Road Community Services District Special Mail Ballot
Election the Nevada County Elections Office will be open from 7:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. on March 7, 2017;

NOTICE IS FURTHER GIVEN THAT Conditional Voter Registration will be offered pursuant to California Elections
Code Section 2017 meaning a registrant may complete a conditional voter registration and cast a conditional voter
registration provisional ballot during the 14 days immediately preceding an election or on Election Day,
commencing February 21, 2017 thru March 7,2017 only at the Nevada County Elections Office at 950 Maidu
Avenue, Nevada City between the hours of 8:00 A.M. and 5 P.M. and the hours of 7 A.M. and 8 P.M. on Election
Day;

NOTICE IS FURTHER GIVEN that after the polls close on the date of said election, ballots will be tallied at the
Nevada County Elections Office on March 8,2017 commencing at 10:00 A.M.;

NOTICE IS FURTHER GIVEN that pursuant to Elections Code Section 15104, the Registrar of Voters also, hereby
notifies all interested organizations that the verifying of signatures on Vote-By-Mail ballots cast for the Mystic Mine
Road Community Services District Special Mail Ballot Election will commence on February 26, 2017, or at any time
thereafter in the County Elections Office. On February 26, 2017 or at any time thereafter, the opening and
processing of Vote-By-Mail ballots will commence. This process will continue until all election results are tabulated
and the election is certified. Any member of the County Grand Jury, and any other interested organization, shall be
permitted to observe and challenge the manner in which the Vote-By-Mail ballots are handled, from the processing
of ballot return envelopes through the opening, counting and disposition of the ballots;

NOTICE IS FURTHER GIVEN that Resolution No. 16-566 of the Board of Supervisors of the County of Nevada
containing Mystic Mine Road Community Services District Resolution No. 2016-03 is attached hereto;

NOTICE IS FURTHER GIVEN that for directions or information regarding the Mystic Mine Road Community
Services District Special Mail Ballot Election, interested persons may call the Nevada County Elections Office at
530-265-1298 or 1-888-395-1298. The Elections website can be found at www.mvnevadacountv.com/nc/elections.

Gregory J. Diaz

Nevada County Clerk-Recorder/Registrar of Voters
December 22,2016

16-566

RESOLUTION No.

OF THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS OF THE COUNTY OF NEVADA

RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING THE NEVADA COUNTY CLERK-
RECORDER/REGISTRAR OF VOTERS TO ADMINISTER THE
SPECIAL ELECTION CALLED BY THE MYSTIC MINE ROAD
COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT FOR MARCH 7, 2016

WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of the Mystic Mine Road Community Services
District, in Resolution No.2016-03, called a special election to be held on March 7, 2017, on
the question of whether the voters shall adopt the special tax and spending limit; and

WHEREAS, Election Code Section 10002 provides that a governing body of a district may
request a county elections official to render election services, and that said election services shall
be performed by the county elections official upon approval of the board of supervisors; and

WHEREAS, the Mystic Mine Road Community Services District, in Resolution No.
2016-03, requests the Nevada County Board of Supervisors to authorize and direct the Nevada
County Clerk-Recorder/Registrar of Voters to serve as the election official conducting this special
election, at a cost which shall be borne by the District.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the Board of Supervisors of the County of
Nevada, State of California, that the Nevada County Clerk-Recorder/Registrar of Voters is
directed to conduct the March 7, 2017, special election of the Mystic Mine Road Community
Services District in Nevada County and to bill the District for the cost of the election.

PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Board of Supervisors of the County of Nevada at a regular meeting of
said Board, held on the 13th day of December. 2016. by the following vote of said Board:

Ayes:	Supervisors Nathan H. Beason, Edward Scofield, Dan Miller,

Hank Weston and Richard Anderson.

Noes:	None.

Absent:	None.

Abstain:	None.

ATTEST:

JULIE PATTERSON HUNTER

Clerk of the Board of Supervisors

12/13/2016 cc:	Registrar

Registrar of Voters’

AC*

MMRCSD*

Mystic Mine Road Community Services District
Resolution No. 2016-03

A Resolution Calling For A Special Election on Tuesday, March 7, 2017

WHEREAS, the Mystic Mine Road Community Services District (“District”) was
formed in 1981 for the providing of maintenance and improvement to the roads within the
boundaries of the District, and,

WHEREAS, in 1996, the voters of the Mystic Mine Road Community Services District
approved the levy of an annual special tax in the amount of $120 per parcel for the purpose of
providing maintenance and improvements to the roads within the District.

WHEREAS, there have been no increases in this fee for over 20 years, even as costs for
said improvements and repairs to the roads have continued to rise, leading to reduced work on
the roads.

WHEREAS, by this Resolution, the Board of Directors of the Mystic Mine Road
Community Services District is seeking voter approval to increase the annual special tax to $200
per year, beginning in fiscal year 2017-18, until fiscal year 2020-21, when it will increase to
$250 per year for fiscal year 2021-22, and each fiscal year thereafter.. Such increases are
necessary in order to provide adequate funding for road maintenance and improvements, and the
continued viability of the District.

WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of the Mystic Mine Road Community Services
District has adopted Resolution 2016-03 calling for the establishment of a special tax and a
spending limit within the District, which election shall be held on Tuesday, March 7, 2017.

NOW THEREFORE, the Board of Directors of the Mystic Mine Road Community
Services District of the County of Nevada, State of California, does hereby Resolve, Determine,
and Order the Following:

1.	That a mail ballot election be held on Tuesday, march 7, 2017 in the Mystic Mine
Road Community Services District requesting that the voters adopt the special tax and spending
limit provided for in Resolution 2016-03.

2.	That the language of the measure shall be as follows:

“Shall Resolution 2016-03 be approved establishing a special tax on each parcel of land
within the District in the amount of $200.00 per year, beginning with the 2017-18 fiscal year,
and $250.00 per year beginning with the 2021-22 fiscal year, and each fiscal year thereafter, for
the purpose of funding road improvements and maintenance programs within the boundaries of
the District, and further establish a spending limit in accordance with the provisions of Article
XB1B of the California Constitution?”

3.	Any unexpected residue of funds raised by this tax remaining at the end of the fiscal
year shall be carried over by the District to the next succeeding year.

4.	The Nevada County Board of Supervisors is requested to instruct the County Clerk to
administer the election in all respects pursuant to the provisions of Election Code section 23306.

5.	The Board of Supervisors is authorized to canvass the results of the election pursuant
to the provisions of Election Code section 22306.

6.	The Mystic Mine Road Community Services District shall reimburse the County of
Nevada for the conduct of the election pursuant to the provisions of Election Code section

Services jL/isxriui ai a. uuuceu regular meeting or saru noaru neiu un uie o uay ox xNuvemoer,
2016, by the following vote of said Board :

22306.

Ayes:

Noes: (Z$
Absent: $2$
Abstain: <2?

Andrew Wedgbury, President
Sylvia Weeden, Secretary

Argument in Support of 16-566

The passage of resolution 2016-03 calling for an increase in the road tax for each
parcel within the mystic Mine Road Community Services District is absolutely
necessary for the continuation of said District. Without the funds raised by this
special tax, the District will not be able to continue funding much needed
maintenance and improvements. As the county ofNevada has no responsibility
for road work within the District, failure to pass this ballot measure will mean a
very limited road work in the coming years or possibly the dissolution of the
District. In closing, there has not been an increase in this special tax in over 20
years, and now is the time for a modest increase to sustain the District.

Respectfully submitted,

Signed:

Andrew Wedgbury

President, Mystic Mine Road Community Services District
Author:

Andrew Wedgbury

Note: No argument against was submitted to the Elections Office.