VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

COUNTY OF SONOMA
MEASURE A

Shall an ordinance be adopted imposing a cannabis

A business tax in unincorporated Sonoma County on
cultivation up to $38 per square foot (annually adjusted by
CPI increases) or 10% on gross receipts, and on other
cannabis businesses up to 10% on gross receipts, to fund
essential county services such as addressing industry impacts,
public safety, fire, health, housing, roads, and environmental
protection, with funds staying local and subject to audits,
generating undetermined revenue until repealed?

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE A

The County of Sonoma has called a special election to seek voter approval to
impose a business tax on commercial cannabis businesses operating within the
County. State law requires voter approval before the County can impose a tax.
Measure A was placed on the ballot by a unanimous vote of the Board of
Supervisors.

In November 2016, California voters approved Proposition 64 legalizing the rec-
reational use of cannabis by adults and establishing maximum cultivation allow-
ances for personal use. Proposition 64 authorizes the sale of non-medical
cannabis and further allows for local control of adult use cannabis land uses. The
County is contemplating local land use regulations to control such uses.

If approved by voters, Measure A would impose a business tax on both medical
and non-medical cannabis businesses in the unincorporated area of the County.
Measure A would impose a tax on every person engaged in commercial canna-
bis cultivation in the unincorporated County either: (i) at a maximum rate of
$10.00 per square foot of outdoor cultivation areas, $38.00 per square foot of
indoor cultivation area, and $22.00 per square foot of mixed-light cultivation
area, or (ii) at a maximum rate of 10% of gross receipts per fiscal year. Measure A
would also impose a tax on every person engaged in other commercial cannabis
business, including distributors, distribution facilities, testing laboratories, trans-
porters, manufacturers, nurseries, dispensaries, or engaging in deliveries at a
maximum rate of 10% per fiscal year. The initial rates for the proposed tax are set
forth in the measure.

Measure A generally defines “gross receipts” as the total revenue or compensa-
tion received by a cannabis business without any deduction for operating costs.
“Commercial cannabis business” is defined to include cultivating, transporting,
distributing, manufacturing, compounding, converting, processing, preparing,
storing, packaging, delivering, and selling cannabis and any ancillary products
and accessories. “Dispensary” as a facility where cannabis, cannabis products,
or devices for the use of cannabis are offered, for retail sale, including a dispen-
sary that functions through any technology platform. The amount of revenue that
would be generated by the proposed tax is undetermined.

The Board of Supervisors may, by ordinance, decrease or increase the tax rate up
to the maximum authorized rates at any time thereafter. Measure A also imposes
registration and reporting requirements on each person operating a cannabis busi-
ness and provides for exemptions for personal use and cultivation for personal use.

Measure A is a general tax understate law. If adopted, the revenues received from
the tax will be placed in the County’s general fund and may be used in any manner
authorized by law and as directed by the Board. The monies collected could be
used to pay for general County operations and programs such as addressing in-
dustry impacts, code enforcement, public safety, fire, health, housing, roads, and
environmental protection.

If a majority of voters who vote on Measure A vote “yes,” the proposed tax will be
imposed on cannabis businesses at the rates set forth in the measure. A no vote on
Measure A would result in no tax being imposed on cannabis businesses.

BRUCE D. GOLDSTEIN
County Counsel

By: s/ Robert Pittman
_________________________________Assistant	County	Counsel________________

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE A

Vote Yes on Measure A, the Sonoma County cannabis business tax.

You, the taxpayer, have borne the cost of addressing the negative impacts of illegal
cannabis operations for far too long! Taxpayers have had to fully fund the rising
costs of public safety, criminal prosecution, public health and environmental
protection, without help from cannabis businesses. It’s time for Sonoma County to
have a well-regulated industry that serves medical cannabis patients suffering from
cancer and other debilitating conditions and provides the opportunity for legitimate
businesses to serve these patients.

Measure A is simple: Cannabis businesses would pay for permission to operate in
the unincorporated areas of Sonoma County (outside the cities), contributing their
fair share to the funding of vital public services such as public safety, fire, health,
housing, roads, and environmental protection.

Measure A would provide funds to implement strict standards and location require-
ments for medical cannabis businesses adopted by the Board of Supervisors. Too
many unregulated cannabis operations have damaged our forests, diverted our
streams, and increased violent crime. Our new regulations and revenue from this
tax will protect our environment and finally help put an end to these illegal
operators.

The children of Sonoma County are our most important asset. Implementing these
regulations and funding enforcement will reduce the risk of accidental ingestion of
cannabis products, increase health education and outreach, and decrease violent
crime in our neighborhoods.

Since there is no guarantee that State tax revenue from cannabis sales will fund local
services, it is necessary to secure our own funding. All revenue collected from
Measure A will stay local to expand and maintain critical County services.

Help put a stop to detrimental illegal cannabis operations and ensure the local
industry contributes positively to the quality of life in Sonoma County.

Please join us in voting Yes on Measure A.

SONOMA COUNTY BOARD OF SUPERVISORS

s/Efren Carrillo, Chair 2016	s/Shirlee	Zane, Chair2017

NO ARGUMENT WAS SUBMITTED AGAINST MEASURE A

49-501

9451

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE A

Exhibit A
ORDINANCE NO. (	)

AN ORDINANCE OF THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS OF THE COUNTY OF
SONOMA, STATE OF CALIFORNIA, IMPOSING A CANNABIS BUSINESS
TAX ON COMMERCIAL CANNABIS BUSINESS

The Board of Supervisors of the County of Sonoma, State of California,
ordains as follows:

Section 1. Title. This ordinance shall be known as the Cannabis Business Tax
Ordinance. This ordinance shall be applicable in the unincorporated territory of
the County of Sonoma, which shall be referred to herein as “County.”

Section 2. General Tax. The Cannabis Business Tax is enacted solely for general
governmental purposes for the County and not for specific purposes. All of the
proceeds from the tax imposed by this Chapter shall be placed in the County’s
general fund and used for general governmental purposes.

Section 3. Purpose of the Ordinance. This ordinance is adopted to achieve the
following purposes, among others, and directs that the provisions hereof be inter-
preted in order to accomplish those purposes:

A.	To impose a tax on the privilege of cultivating, dispensing,
producing, processing, preparing, storing, providing, donating, selling, or distribut-
ing medical cannabis or medical cannabis products by commercial cannabis
businesses in the unincorporated area of the County, pursuant to the state Medi-
cal Cannabis Regulation and Safety Act, specifically California Business and Pro-
fessions Code section 19348, or other enabling legislation;

B.	To impose a tax on the privilege of cultivating, manufacturing,
producing, processing, preparing, storing, providing, donating, selling, or
distributing nonmedical marijuana and marijuana products and accessories by
commercial cannabis businesses in the unincorporated area of the County pursu-
ant to the “California Control, Regulate and Tax Adult Use of Marijuana Initiative”
approved by the voters in the November 2016 election, or other enabling legisla-
tion, notwithstanding if state law uses the term “marijuana” or “cannabis”;

C.	To impose a tax on lawful commercial cannabis business in
accordance with the authority granted by California Revenue and Taxation Code
section 7284 to impose a business license tax;

D.	To specify the type of tax and rate of tax to be levied and the
method of collection; and

E.	To comply with all requirements for imposition of a general tax,
such tax to become operative only if submitted to the electorate and approved by
a majority vote of the voters voting in an election on the issue.

Section 4. Definitions. Terms that are not defined in this Chapter shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in Section 26-02-140 (Definitions) of Chapter 26 of the
Sonoma County Code. The following words and phrases shall have the meanings
set forth below when used in this Chapter:

A.	“Business” shall include all activities engaged in or caused to be
engaged in within the unincorporated area of the County, including any com-
mercial or industrial enterprise, trade, profession, occupation, vocation, calling, or
livelihood, whether or not carried on for gain or profit, but shall not include the
services rendered by an employee to his or her employer.

B.	“Cannabis” means all parts of the plant Cannabis sativa Linnaeus,
Cannabis indica, or Cannabis ruderalis, or any other strain or varietal of the genus
Cannabis that may exist or hereafter be discovered or developed that has psy-
choactive or medicinal properties, whether growing or not, including the seeds
thereof. “Cannabis” also means marijuana as defined by Section 11018 of the
Health and Safety Code as enacted by Chapter 1407 of the Statutes of 1972. For

the purpose of this section, “cannabis” does not mean “industrial hemp” as defined
by Section 81000 of the Food and Agricultural Code or Section 11018.5 of the
Health and Safety Code. Cannabis is classified as an agricultural product sepa-
rately from other agricultural crops.

C.	“Cannabis cultivation area” means the total aggregate area(s) of
cannabis cultivation on a single premise as measured around the outermost perim-
eter of each separate and discrete area of cannabis cultivation at the dripline of the
canopy expected at maturity and includes, but is not limited to, the space between
plants within the cultivation area, the exterior dimensions of garden beds, garden
plots, hoop houses, green houses, and each room or area where cannabis plants
are grown, as determined by the review authority.

D.	“Cannabis nursery” means a location that produces cannabis
clones, immature plants, and seeds for wholesale distribution, used specifically for
the planting, propagation, and cultivation of cannabis.

E.	“Cannabis product” means any product containing cannabis,
including, but not limited to, flowers, buds, oils, tinctures, concentrates, extrac-
tions, and edibles intended to be sold for use by medical cannabis patients in Cali-
fornia pursuant to the Compassionate Use Act of 1996 (Proposition 215), found
at Section 11362.5 of the Health and Safety Code. For the purposes of this chapter,
medical cannabis does not include industrial hemp as defined by Section 81000 of
the Food and Agricultural Code or Section 11018.5 of the Health and Safety Code.

F.	“Commercial cannabis business” means any commercial business
activity relating to cannabis, including but not limited to cultivating, transporting,
distributing, manufacturing, compounding, converting, processing, preparing, stor-
ing, packaging, delivering, and selling (wholesale and/or retail sales) of cannabis
and any ancillary products and accessories in the unincorporated area of the
County, whether or not carried on for gain or profit.

G.	“Commercial cannabis business tax,” “business tax,” or “commer-
cial cannabis tax” means the tax due pursuant to this Chapter for engaging in
commercial cannabis business in the unincorporated area of the County.

H.	“Commercial cannabis cultivation” means cultivation conducted
by, for, or as part of a commercial cannabis business.

I.	“County permit” means a permit issued by the County to a person
to authorize that person to operate or engage in a commercial cannabis business.

J.	“Cultivation” means any activity involving the planting, growing,
harvesting, drying, curing, grading, or trimming of cannabis. For purposes of this
Chapter, “cultivation” does not include a cannabis nursery.

K.	“Delivery” means the commercial transfer of cannabis or cannabis
products from a dispensary.

L.	“Dispensary” means a facility where cannabis, cannabis products,
or devices for the use of cannabis or cannabis products are offered, either individu-
ally or in any combination, for retail sale, including a person that delivers cannabis
and cannabis products as part of a retail sale. Where a dispensary performs its
functions through a technology platform of any type or character, the technology
platform shall also be deemed a dispensary for purposes of this Chapter, and shall
have the same duties and liabilities as the principal. Compliance with the provisions
of this Chapter by either the principal or the technology platform shall, however, be
considered compliance by both.

M.	“Distributor” or “distribution” or “distribution facility” means a person
involved in the procurement, sale, and/or transport of cannabis and cannabis
products between two or more cannabis businesses.

N.	“Employee” means each and every person engaged in the operation
or conduct of any business, whether as owner, member of the owner’s family,
partner, associate, agent, manager or solicitor, and each and every other person
employed or working in such business for a wage, salary, commission, barter or
any other form of compensation.

CONT. NEXT PAGE

49-502

9451

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE A, CONT.

O.	“Engaged in business” means the commencing, conducting,
operating, managing or carrying on of a cannabis business and the exercise
of corporate or franchise powers, whether done as owner, or by means of an
officer, agent, manager, employee, or otherwise, whether operating from a fixed
location in the unincorporated area of the County or coming into the unincorporated
area of the County from an outside location to engage in such activities. A person
shall be deemed engaged in business within the County if:

1.	Such person or person’s employee maintains a fixed place
of business within unincorporated area of the County for the benefit or
partial benefit of such person;

2.	Such person or person’s employee owns or leases real
property within the unincorporated area of County for business purposes;

3.	Such person or person’s employee regularly maintains a
stock of tangible personal property in the unincorporated area of County for
sale in the ordinary course of business;

4.	Such person or person’s employee regularly conducts
solicitation of business within the unincorporated area of County;

5.	Such person or person’s employee performs work or renders
services in the unincorporated area of County; and

6.	Such person or person’s employee utilizes the streets
within the unincorporated area of County in connection with the operation
of motor vehicles for business purposes.

The foregoing specified activities shall not be a limitation on the meaning of
“engaged in business."

P.	“Evidence of doing business” means evidence such as, without
limitation, use of signs, circulars, cards or any other advertising media, including
the use of internet or telephone solicitation, or representation to a government
agency or to the public that such person is engaged in a cannabis business in the
unincorporated area of County.

Q.	“Fiscal year” means July 1 through June 30 of the following calen-
dar year.

R.	“Gross Receipts,” except as otherwise specifically provided,
means the total amount actually received or receivable from all sales; the total
amount or compensation actually received or receivable for the performance
of any act or service, of whatever nature it may be, for which a charge is made or
credit allowed, whether or not such act or service is done as a part of or in con-
nection with the sale of materials, goods, wares or merchandise; discounts, rents,
royalties, fees, commissions, dividends, and gains realized from trading in stocks
or bonds, however designated. Included in “gross receipts” shall be all receipts,
cash, credits and property of any kind or nature, without any deduction there from
on account of the cost of the property sold, the cost of materials used, labor or service
costs, interest paid or payable, or losses or other expenses whatsoever, except
that the following shall be excluded therefrom:

1.	Cash discounts where allowed and taken on sales;

2.	Credit allowed on property accepted as part of the purchase
price and which property may later be sold, at which time the sales price
shall be included as gross receipts;

3.	Any tax required by law to be included in or added to the
purchase price and collected from the consumer or purchaser;

4.	Such part of the sale price of any property returned by
purchasers to the seller as refunded by the seller by way of cash or credit
allowances or return of refundable deposits previously included in gross
receipts;

5.	Receipts from investments where the holder of the in-
vestment receives only interest and/or dividends, royalties, annuities and

gains from the sale or exchange of stock or securities solely for a person’s
own account, not derived in the ordinary course of a business;

6.	Receipts derived from the occasional sale of used, obsolete
or surplus trade fixtures, machinery or other equipment used by the tax-
payer in the regular course of the taxpayer's business;

7.	Cash value of sales, trades or transactions between depart-
ments or units of the same business;

8.	Whenever there are included within the gross receipts
amounts which reflect sales for which credit is extended and such amount
proved uncollectible in a subsequent year, those amounts may be excluded
from the gross receipts in the year they prove to be uncollectible; provided,
however, if the whole or portion of such amounts excluded as uncollectible
are subsequently collected they shall be included in the amount of gross
receipts for the period when they are recovered;

9.	Transactions between a partnership and its partners;

10.	Receipts from services or sales in transactions between
affiliated corporations. An affiliated corporation is a corporation:

a.	The voting and non-voting stock of which is owned
at least eighty percent by such other corporation with which such
transaction is had; or

b.	Which owns at least eighty percent of the voting
and non-voting stock of such other corporation; or

c.	At least eighty percent of the voting and non-voting
stock of which is owned by a common parent corporation which also
has such ownership of the corporation with which such transaction
is had.

11.	Transactions between a limited liability company and its
member(s), provided the limited liability company has elected to file as a
Subchapter K entity under the Internal Revenue Code and that such
transaction(s) shall be treated the same as between a partnership and its
partner(s) as specified in Subsection (9) above;

12.	Receipts of refundable deposits, except that such deposits
when forfeited and taken into income of the business shall not be excluded
when in excess of one dollar;

13.	Amounts collected for others where the business is acting
as an agent or trustee and to the extent that such amounts are paid to
those for whom collected. These agents or trustees must provide the
finance department with the names and the addresses of the others and
the amounts paid to them. This exclusion shall not apply to any fees, per-
centages, or other payments retained by the agent or trustees.

S.	“Indoor” means indoor cultivation of cannabis using exclusively
artificial lighting.

T.	“Manufacturer” means a person that conducts the production,
preparation, propagation, or compounding of manufactured cannabis or cannabis
products either directly or indirectly or by extraction methods, or independently by
means of chemical synthesis or by a combination of extraction and chemical
synthesis at a fixed location that packages or repackages cannabis or cannabis
products or labels or relabels its container.

U.	“Mixed-Light” means cultivation of cannabis using any combination
of natural and supplemental artificial lighting. Greenhouses, hoop houses, hot
houses and similar structures or light deprivation systems are included in this
category.

V.	“Outdoor” means cultivation of cannabis using no artificial lighting
conducted in the ground or in containers outdoors with no covering. Outdoor
cultivation does not include greenhouses, hoop houses, hot houses or similar
structures.

CONT. NEXT PAGE

49-503

9451

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE A, CONT.

W.	“Person” means an individual, firm, partnership, joint venture,
association, corporation, limited liability company, estate, trust, business trust, receiver,
syndicate, tribe or any other group or combination acting as a unit and includes the
plural as well as the singular number.

X.	“Personal cannabis cultivation” means cultivation within the
residency, plant number, and/or square footage limitations provided in Chapter
26-88-258 exclusively for noncommercial.

Y.	“Sale” means and includes any sale, exchange, or barter.

Z.	“Square foot” or “square footage” means the maximum amount of
cannabis cultivation area for commercial cannabis cultivation authorized by a
County permit issued to a person engaging in commercial cannabis business, or
by a state license in the absence of a County permit or license, not deducting for
unutilized square footage, and shall be the basis for the tax base for cultivation.

AA. “State” means the State of California.

BB. “State license,” “license,” or “registration” means a state license
issued pursuant to California Business & Professions Code Sections 19300, et
seq. or other applicable state law.

CC. “Testing laboratory” means a facility, entity, or site in the state that
offers or performs testing of cannabis or cannabis products.

DD. “Transporter” means a person engaged in the transfer of cannabis
or cannabis products from the business location of one commercial cannabis
business to the business location of another commercial cannabis business, for
the purposes of conducting commercial cannabis activity.

EE. “Treasurer-Tax Collector” means the Treasurer-Tax Collector of
the County of Sonoma, his or her deputies or any other County officer charged with
the administration of the provisions of this Chapter.

Section 5. Tax Imposed. There is established and imposed a cannabis business
tax at the rates set forth in this Chapter. Every person who is engaged in com-
mercial cannabis business in the unincorporated area of the County shall pay an
annual cannabis business tax.

A.	Tax on Commercial Cannabis Cultivation

1.	Every person who is engaged in commercial cannabis
cultivation in the unincorporated area of the County shall pay an annual
commercial cannabis business tax either: (1) at a rate of up to $10.00 per
square foot of outdoor cultivation area, $38.00 per square foot of indoor
cultivation area, and $22 per square foot of mixed-light cultivation area, or
(2) at a rate of up to ten percent of gross receipts per fiscal year. When the
rate is determined on a square footage basis, on July 1 of each fiscal year
succeeding the year of imposition of a square footage based tax on com-
mercial cannabis cultivation, the amount of the tax shall be increased by
the most recent change in the annual average of the Consumer Price Index
(“CPI”) for all urban consumers in the San Francisco-Oakland-San Jose
areas as published by the United States Government Bureau of Labor Sta-
tistics. However, no CPI adjustment resulting in a decrease of any tax im-
posed by this subsection shall be made. The tax under this subsection
shall not be imposed unless and until the Board of Supervisors, by ordi-
nance, takes action to: (1) specify whetherthe tax on commercial cannabis
cultivation will be imposed on a square footage or gross receipts basis, and
(2) set a tax rate not to exceed the maximum rates established herein.

2.	For cultivation license types based on plant count, the
square footage based tax will be calculated using up to 100 square feet per
plant allowed under the permit.

3.	Notwithstanding the maximum tax rate established in
Subsection (A)(1), the Board of Supervisors may, in its discretion, at any
time by ordinance, implement a lower tax rate for all persons engaged in
commercial cannabis cultivation in the unincorporated area of the County or
establish differing tax rates for different categories of commercial cannabis

cultivation, including commercial cannabis cultivation for medical or adult
use, subject to the maximum rate established in Subsection (A)(1). The
Board of Supervisors may, by ordinance, also increase any such tax rate
from time to time, not to exceed the maximum tax rate established in
Subsection (A)(1). Notwithstanding the maximum square foot per plant
established in Subsection (A)(2) for cultivation license types based on
plant count, the Board of Supervisors may, in its discretion, at any time by
ordinance, implement a lower square footage per plant, and may, by ordi-
nance, also increase such square footage from time to time, not to exceed
the maximum square footage established in Subsection (A)(2).

4.	Pursuant to Subsection (A), the commercial cannabis business
tax on commercial cannabis cultivation is to be imposed on a square foot-
age basis, and is set at the following rates, with permit types as defined in
Chapter 26 of the Sonoma County Code:

Permit Type	Rate Per Square Foot
Outdoor	
1C: Cottage	$0.50
1: Specialty	$2.00
2: Small	$3.00
3: Medium	$5.00
Indoor	
1C: Cottage	$1.88
1A: Specialty	$7.50
2A: Small	$11.25
3A: Medium	$18.75
Mixed Light	
1C: Cottage	$1.08
IB: Specialty	$4.32
2B: Small	$6.48
3B: Medium	$10.80

5.	Pursuant to Subsection (A), the square footage based tax
for cultivation license types based on plant count will be calculated using
25 square feet per plant allowed under the permit.

B.	Tax on All Other Commercial Cannabis Business

1.	Every person who is engaged in commercial cannabis
business, including but not limited to as a distributor, distribution facility,
testing laboratory, transporter, manufacturer, nursery, dispensary, or
engaging in delivery of cannabis in the unincorporated area of the County
shall pay an annual commercial cannabis business tax at a rate of up to ten
percent of gross receipts per fiscal year. The tax under this chapter shall
not be imposed unless and until the Board of Supervisors, by ordinance,
takes action to set a tax rate not to exceed the maximum rates established
herein.

CONT. NEXT PAGE

49-504

9451

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE A, CONT.

2.	Notwithstanding the maximum tax rate established in
Subsection (B)(1), the Board of Supervisors may, in its discretion, at any
time by ordinance, implement a lower tax rate for all persons engaged in
commercial cannabis business in the unincorporated area of the County
or establish differing tax rates for different categories of commercial canna-
bis business, including commercial cannabis business for medical or adult
use, subject to the maximum rate established in Subsection (B)(1).
The Board of Supervisors may, by ordinance, also increase any such tax
rate from time to time, not to exceed the maximum tax rate established in
Subsection (B)(1).

3.	Pursuant to Subsection (A), the cannabis business tax on
every person who is engaged in commercial cannabis business, including
but not limited to as a distributor, distribution facility, testing laboratory,
transporter, manufacturer, cannabis nursery, dispensary, or engaging in
delivery of cannabis in the unincorporated area of the County is set at the
following rates:

Operator	Percentage of Gross Receipts
Manufacturer	5%
Transporter	0%
Distributor	0%
Cannabis Nursery	0%
Dispensary	0%
Testing Laboratory	0%

Section 6. Reporting and Remittance of Tax. The commercial cannabis business
tax imposed by this Chapter shall be imposed on a fiscal year basis and shall be
due and payable in quarterly installments as follows:

A.	Each person owing a commercial cannabis business tax, and each
person on whom a 0% tax rate is imposed, shall, on or before the last day of the
month following the close of each fiscal year quarter, prepare and submit a tax
statement on the form prescribed by the Treasurer-Tax Collector and remit to the
Treasurer-Tax Collector the tax due. The tax due shall be no less than the quarterly
installment due, but the taxpayer may at any time pay the tax due for the entire
fiscal year. Each business shall pay on or before the last day of the month following
the close of each calendar quarter.

B.	If the commercial cannabis business tax is owed on commercial
cannabis cultivation, and the Board has specified that the square footage basis
shall apply, the square footage tax due shall be paid based on the square footage
of cultivation authorized by the County permit. The tax statement may include a
request for adjustment of the tax due to square footage authorized but not utilized
for cultivation, and/or crop loss, along with evidence substantiating the square
footage utilized and/or crop loss. The decision to prorate or adjust the tax will be
made at the sole discretion of the County. A fee may be adopted by the Board of
Supervisors and collected by the agency having jurisdiction or the Treasurer-Tax
Collector to pay for the cost of investigating, verifying, and opining on such request
for adjustment of the tax.

C.	All tax statements shall be completed on forms prescribed by the
Treasurer-Tax Collector.

D.	Tax statements and payments for all outstanding taxes owed
the County are immediately due to the Treasurer-Tax Collector upon cessation of
business for any reason.

E.	The Treasurer-Tax Collector may, at his or her discretion, establish
shorter or longer report and payment periods for any taxpayer as the Treasurer-Tax
Collector deems necessary to insure collection of the tax.

F.	The Treasurer-Tax Collector may, as part of administering the tax
and in his or her discretion, modify the form of payment and take such other ad-
ministrative actions as needed to facilitate collection of the tax.

Section 7. Registration. In order that the County will have an accurate record of
parties collecting the cannabis business tax, prior to commencing business each
person engaged in commercial cannabis cultivation and commercial cannabis
business shall register such cannabis business with the Treasurer-Tax Collector,
submitting any information deemed necessary by the Treasurer-Tax Collector.

Section 8. Payments and Communications - Timely Remittance. Whenever any
payment, statement, report, request or other communication is due, it must be
received by the Treasurer-Tax Collector on or before the final due date. A postmark
will not be accepted as timely remittance. If the due date falls on Saturday, Sunday
or a holiday, the due date shall be the next regular business day on which the
County is open to the public.

Section 9. Payment - When Taxes Deemed Delinquent. Unless otherwise
specifically provided under other provisions of this Chapter, the taxes required to
be paid pursuant to this Chapter shall be deemed delinquent if not received by the
Treasurer-Tax Collector on or before the due date as specified in Sections 6 and 8.

Section 10. Notice Not Required By County. The Treasurer-Tax Collector is not
required to send a delinquency or other notice or bill to any person subject to the
provisions of this Chapter. Failure to send such notice or bill shall not affect the
validity of any tax or penalty due under the provisions of this Chapter.

Section 11. Penalties and Interest.

A.	Any person who fails or refuses to pay any commercial cannabis
business tax required to be paid pursuant to this Chapter on or before the due date
shall pay penalties and interest as follows:

1.	A penalty equal to twenty-five percent (25%) of the amount
of the tax, in addition to the amount of the tax, plus interest on the unpaid
tax calculated from the due date of the tax at the rate of one and one-half
percent (1.5%) per month; and

2.	If the tax remains unpaid for a period exceeding one
calendar month beyond the due date, an additional penalty equal to
twenty-five percent (25%) of the amount of the tax, plus interest at the rate
of one and one-half percent (1.5%) per month on the unpaid tax.

3.	Interest shall be applied at the rate of one and one-half
percent (1.5%) per month on the first day of the month for the full month,
and will continue to accrue monthly on the tax until the balance is paid in full.

B.	Whenever a check or electronic payment is submitted in payment
of a commercial cannabis business tax and the payment is subsequently returned
unpaid by the bank for any reason, the taxpayer will be liable for the tax amount due
plus the return check fee, penalties and interest as provided for in this Section, and
any other amount allowed under state law.

C.	The cannabis business tax due shall be that amount due and payable
from the first date on which the person was engaged in cannabis business in the
unincorporated area of the County, together with applicable penalties and interest
calculated in accordance with Subsection (A) above.

D.	Any person whose cannabis business tax is delinquent by at least
sixty calendar days may be subject to revocation of the County permit associated
with the subject cannabis business.

CONT. NEXT PAGE

49-505

9451

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE A, CONT.

E.	The Treasurer-Tax Collector is authorized to make an assessment
in the manner provided for in Sections 25 and 26 of the anticipated tax liability for
up to the following four quarters if any person has failed to file one or more returns
or payments, or who has filed one or more delinquent returns or payments, in any
twelve (12) month period, without curing the failure or delinquency within 60 days
of the original due date after written notice from the Treasurer-Tax Collector of the
failure or delinquency. Failure to remit the anticipated tax within 60 days of the
notice of assessment shall be grounds for revocation of the County permit associ-
ated with the subject cannabis business.

Section 12. Waiver of Penalties. The Treasurer-Tax Collector may waive the first
and second penalties of twenty-five percent each imposed upon any person if:

A.	The person provides evidence satisfactory to the Treasurer-Tax
Collector that failure to pay timely was due to circumstances beyond the control of
the person and occurred notwithstanding the exercise of ordinary care and the
absence of willful neglect, and the person paid the delinquent business tax and
accrued interest owed the county prior to applying to the Treasurer-Tax Collector
for a waiver.

B.	The waiver provisions specified in this subsection shall not apply to
interest accrued on the delinquent tax and a waiver shall be granted only once during
any twenty-four month period.

Section 13. Refunds and Credits.

A.	No refund shall be made of any tax collected pursuant to this
Chapter, except as provided in Section 14.

B.	No refund of any tax collected pursuant to this Chapter shall be
made because of the discontinuation, dissolution, or other termination of a business.

Section 14. Refunds and Procedures.

A.	Whenever the amount of any commercial cannabis business tax,
penalty or interest has been overpaid, paid more than once, or has been errone-
ously collected or received by the County under this Chapter, it may be refunded
to the claimant who paid the tax provided that a written claim for refund is filed
with the Treasurer-Tax Collector within one (1) year of the date the tax was origi-
nally due and payable.

B.	The Treasurer-Tax Collector, his or her deputies or any other
County officer charged with the administration of this Chapter shall have the right to
examine and audit all the books and business records of the claimant in order to
determine the eligibility of the claimant to the claimed refund. No claim for refund
shall be allowed if the claimant refuses to allow such examination of claimant’s
books and business records after request by the Treasurer-Tax Collector to do so.
The Treasurer-Tax Collector may collect a fee adopted by the Board of Supervisors
to pay for the cost of examination and audit should the books and records be
provided in a form insufficient to allow the Treasurer-Tax Collector to make a de-
termination on the claim for refund.

C.	In the event that the commercial cannabis business tax was erro-
neously paid and the error is attributable to the County, the County shall refund
the amount of tax erroneously paid up to one (1) year from when the error was
identified.

Section 15. Exemptions from the Tax.

A.	The provisions of this Chapter shall not apply to personal canna-
bis cultivation.

B.	The provisions of this Chapter shall not apply to personal use of
cannabis that is specifically exempted from state licensing requirements, that
meets the definition of personal use or equivalent terminology under state law, and
for which the individual receives no compensation whatsoever related to that
personal use.

Section 16. Administration of the Tax.

A.	It shall be the duty of the Treasurer-Tax Collector to collect the
taxes, penalties, fees, and perform the duties required by this Chapter.

B.	For purposes of administration and enforcement of this Chapter
generally, the Treasurer-Tax Collector may from time to time promulgate such
administrative rules and procedures consistent with the purpose, intent, and ex-
press terms of this Chapter as he or she deems necessary to implement or clarify
such provisions or aid in enforcement.

C.	The Treasurer-Tax Collector may take such administrative actions
as needed to administer the tax, including but not limited to:

1.	Provide to all commercial cannabis business taxpayers
forms for the reporting of the tax;

2.	Increase tax rates in accordance with this Chapter;

3.	Provide information to any taxpayer concerning the pro-
visions of this Chapter;

4.	Receive and record all taxes remitted to the County as
provided in this Chapter;

5.	Maintain records of taxpayer reports and taxes collected
pursuant to this Chapter;

6.	Assess penalties and interest to taxpayers pursuant to this
Chapter;

7.	Determine amounts owed and enforce collection pursuant
to this Chapter.

Section 17. Enforcement - Action to Collect.

A.	Any taxes, penalties and/or fees required to be paid under the
provisions of this Chapter shall be deemed a debt owed to the County. Any person
owing money to the County under the provisions of this Chapter shall be liable in an
action brought in the name of the County for the recovery of such debt. The pro-
visions of this Section shall not be deemed a limitation upon the right of the County
to bring any other action including criminal, civil and equitable actions, based upon
the failure to pay the tax, penalties and/or fees imposed by this Chapter or the failure
to comply with any of the provisions of this Chapter.

B.	In addition to any other remedies available under federal, state, or
local law, if any amount required to be paid to the County under this Chapter is not
paid when due, the Treasurer-Tax Collector may, within three (3) years after the
amount is due record a certificate of lien specifying the amount of taxes, fees and
penalties due, and the name and address of the person as it appears on the
records of Treasurer-Tax Collector. The lien shall also specify that the Treasurer-Tax
Collector has complied with all provisions of this Chapter in the determination of the
amount required to be paid. From the time of the filing for record, the amount
required to be paid, together with penalties thereon, constitutes a lien upon all real
property in the County owned by the person, or subsequently acquired by the
person before the lien expires. The lien has the force, effect, and priority of a
judgment lien and shall continue for ten (10) years from the filing of the certificate
unless sooner released or otherwise discharged. A fee may be adopted by the
Board of Supervisors and collected by the Treasurer-Tax Collector to pay for the
cost of recording and administering the lien.

C.	At any time within three (3) years after any person is delinquent
in the payment of any amount herein required to be paid or within three (3) years
after the last recording of a certificate of lien under Subsection B of this Section,
the Treasurer-Tax Collector may issue a warrant for the enforcement of any liens
and for the collection of any amount required to be paid to the County under this
Chapter. The warrant shall be directed to the Sheriff and shall have the same ef-
fect as a writ of execution. The warrant shall be levied and sale made pursuant to it
in the same manner and with the same effect as a levy and sale pursuant to a writ
of execution. The Treasurer-Tax Collector may pay or advance to the Sheriff, the

CONT. NEXT PAGE

49-506

9451

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE A, CONT.

same fees, commissions and expenses for service provided by law for similar ser-
vices pursuant to a writ of execution. The Treasurer-Tax Collector may approve
the fees for publication in the newspaper.

D.	At any time within three (3) years after recording a lien against any
person, if the lien is not discharged and released in full, the Treasurer-Tax Collector
may forthwith seize any asset or property, real or personal (including bank account),
of the person and sell at public auction the asset or property, or a sufficient part of it
to pay the amount due together with any penalties and interest imposed for the
delinquency and any cost incurred on account of the seizure and sale. Assets or
property of the person subject to seizure and sale subject to this Chapter shall not
include any assets or property which is exempt from execution under the provisions
of Code of Civil Procedure.

Section 18. Apportionment. If a person subject to the tax is operating both within
and outside the unincorporated County, it is the intent of the County to apply the
commercial cannabis business tax so that the measure of the tax fairly reflects the
proportion of the taxed activity actually carried on in the County. For purposes of
apportionment as may be required by law, the Treasurer-Tax Collector may
promulgate administrative procedures for apportionment in accordance with state
law.

Section 19. Constitutionality and Legality. This tax is intended to be applied in a
manner consistent with the United States and California Constitutions and state
law. None of the tax provided for by this Chapter shall be applied in a manner that
causes an undue burden upon interstate commerce, a violation of the equal
protection and due process clauses of the Constitutions of the United States
or the State of California or a violation of any other provision of the California
Constitution or state law.

Section 20. Audit and Examination of Records and Equipment.

A.	The Treasurer-Tax Collector shall have the power to audit and
examine all books and records of persons engaged in cannabis businesses,
including both state and federal income tax returns, California sales tax returns,
bank statements, or other evidence documenting the gross receipts of persons
engaged in cannabis businesses, and, where necessary, all equipment, of any
person engaged in cannabis businesses in the County, for the purpose of ascer-
taining the amount of commercial cannabis tax, if any, required to be paid by the
provisions hereof, and for the purpose of verifying any statements or any item
thereof when filed by any person pursuant to this Chapter. If such person, after
written demand by the Treasurer-Tax Collector, refuses to make available for
audit, examination or verification such books, records or equipment as the admin-
istrator requests, the Treasurer-Tax Collector may, after full consideration of all in-
formation within his or her knowledge concerning the cannabis business and
activities of the person so refusing, make an assessment in the manner provided in
Sections 25 and 26 of any taxes estimated to be due. The Treasurer-Tax Collector
may collect a fee adopted by the Board of Supervisors to pay for the cost of exami-
nation and audit should the books and records be provided in a form insufficient to
allow the Treasurer-Tax Collector to make a determination of tax due.

B.	It shall be the duty of every person liable for the collection and pay-
ment to the County of any tax imposed by this Chapter to keep and preserve, for a
period of at least three (3) years, all records as may be necessary to determine the
amount of such tax as he or she may have been liable for the collection of and
payment to the County, which records the Treasurer-Tax Collector or his/her
designee shall have the right to inspect at all reasonable times.

Section 21. Other Licenses, Permits, Taxes, Fees, or Charges. Nothing contained
in this Chapter shall be deemed to repeal, amend, be in lieu of, replace or in any
way affect any requirements for any permit or license required by, under or by
virtue of any provision of any other title or chapter of this code or any other or-
dinance or resolution of the County, nor be deemed to repeal, amend, be in lieu of,
replace or in any way affect any tax, fee or other charge imposed, assessed or
required by, under or by virtue of any other title or chapter of this code or any other
ordinance or resolution of the County. Any references made or contained in any
other title or chapter of this code to any licenses, license taxes, fees, or charges, or

to any schedule of license fees, shall be deemed to refer to the licenses, license
taxes, fees or charges, or schedule of license fees, provided for in other titles or
chapters of this code.

Section 22. Change of Ownership.

A.	In the event that there is a change in ownership of any cannabis
business, the new owner is required to submit an updated registration form to the
Treasurer-Tax Collector.

B.	Unless otherwise provided by law, upon the sale of any cannabis
business:

(i)	It is the joint and several liability of both the seller and buyer
to remit any tax due up until the date of sale; and

(ii)	A Certificate of Delinquent Cannabis Business Tax Lien
may be filed against both the seller and/or buyer in an amount determined
by the Treasurer-Tax Collector.

C.	Following any change of ownership, the new owner is subject to an
audit by the Treasurer-Tax Collector or his or her designee.

D.	Any owner of a cannabis business required to collect or pay the
cannabis business tax may apply for and receive, within 90 days of application,
a Tax Clearance Certificate, provided that the taxes and any penalties are paid
in full for the time period specified.

Section 23. Payment of Tax Does Not Authorize Unlawful Business.

A.	The payment of a commercial cannabis business tax required by
this Chapter, and its acceptance by the County, shall not entitle any person to carry
on any cannabis business unless the person has complied with all of the require-
ments of this Code and all other applicable state laws.

B.	No tax paid under the provisions of this Chapter shall be construed
as authorizing the conduct or continuance of any illegal or unlawful business, or
any business in violation of any local or state law.

Section 24. Deficiency Determinations. If the Treasurer-Tax Collector is not
satisfied that any statement filed as required under the provisions of this Chapter is
correct, or that the amount of tax is correctly computed, he or she may compute
and determine the amount to be paid and make a deficiency determination upon
the basis of the facts contained in the statement or upon the basis of any information
in his or her possession or that may come into his or her possession within three (3)
years of the date the tax was originally due and payable. One or more deficiency
determinations of the amount of tax due for a period or periods may be made.
When a person discontinues engaging in a business, a deficiency determination
may be made at any time within three (3) years thereafter as to any liability arising
from engaging in such business whether or not a deficiency determination is
issued prior to the date the tax would otherwise be due. Whenever a deficiency
determination is made, a notice shall be given to the person concerned in the same
manner as notices of assessment are given under Sections 25 and 26.

Section 25. Failure to Report - Nonpayment, Fraud.

A.	Under any of the following circumstances, the Treasurer-Tax Collector

may make and give notice of an assessment of the amount of tax owed by a person
under this Chapter at anytime:

1.	If the person has not filed a complete statement required
under the provisions of this Chapter;

2.	If the person has not paid the tax due under the provisions
of this Chapter;

3.	If the person has not, after demand by the Treasurer-Tax
Collector, filed a corrected statement, or furnished to the Treasurer-Tax
Collector adequate substantiation of the information contained in a
statement already filed, or paid any additional amount of tax due under the
provisions of this Chapter; or

CONT. NEXT PAGE

49-507

9451

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE A, CONT.

4.	If the Treasurer-Tax Collector determines that the nonpay-
ment of any business tax due under this Chapter is due to fraud, a penalty
of twenty-five percent (25%) of the amount of the tax shall be added thereto
in addition to penalties and interest otherwise stated in this Chapter and
any other penalties allowed by law.

B. The notice of assessment shall separately set forth the amount of
any tax known by the Treasurer-Tax Collector to be due or estimated by the
Treasurer-Tax Collector, after consideration of all information within the
Treasurer-Tax Collector’s knowledge concerning the business and activities of the
person assessed, to be due under each applicable section of this Chapter, and
shall include the amount of any penalties or interest accrued on each amount to the
date of the notice of assessment.

Section 26. Tax Assessment — Notice Requirements. The notice of assessment
shall be served upon the person either by personal delivery, or by a deposit of the
notice in the United States mail, postage prepaid thereon, addressed to the person
at the address of the location of the business or to such other address as he or she
shall register with the Treasurer-Tax Collector for the purpose of receiving notices
provided under this Chapter; or, should the person have no address registered with
the Treasurer-Tax Collector for such purpose, then to such person’s last known ad-
dress. For the purposes of this Section, a service by mail is complete at the time of
deposit in the United States mail.

Section 27. Tax Assessment — Hearing, Application, and Determination. Within
ten (10) calendar days after the date of service the person may apply in writing to
the Treasurer-Tax Collector for a hearing on the assessment. If application for a
hearing before the County is not made within the time herein prescribed, the tax
assessed by the Treasurer-Tax Collector shall become final and conclusive.
Within thirty (30) business days of the receipt of any such application for hearing,
the Treasurer-Tax Collector shall cause the matter to be set for hearing before him
or her not later than thirty-five (35) business days after the receipt of the application,
unless a later date is agreed to by the Treasurer-Tax Collector and the person
requesting the hearing. Notice of such hearing shall be given by the Treasurer-Tax
Collector to the person requesting such hearing not later than five (5) business
days prior to such hearing. At such hearing said applicant may appear and offer
evidence why the assessment as made by the Treasurer-Tax Collector should not
be confirmed and fixed as the tax due. After such hearing the Treasurer-Tax
Collector shall determine and reassess the proper tax to be charged and shall give
written notice to the person in the manner prescribed in Section 26 for giving notice
of assessment. The amount determined to be due shall be payable after thirty (30)
calendar days of written notice unless it is appealed to the Board of Supervisors.

Section 28. Appeal Procedure. Any taxpayer aggrieved by any decision of the
Treasurer-Tax Collector with respect to the amount of tax, interest, penalties and
fees, if any, due under this Chapter may appeal to the Board of Supervisors by filing
a notice of appeal with the Clerk of the Board of Supervisors within ten (10) calendar
days of the serving or mailing by the Treasurer-Tax Collector of the determination
of tax due. The Clerk shall fix a time and place for hearing such appeal, and the
Clerk shall give notice in writing to such operator at the last known place of
address. The Treasurer-Tax Collector shall present the matter to the Board of
Supervisors and include evidence submitted by the taxpayer. The Treasurer-Tax
Collector shall also include proposed findings and a resolution of the appeal. At the
hearing, both the Treasurer-Tax Collector and the taxpayer shall have an opportunity
to explain their case and introduce other statements or evidence. The Board of
Supervisors may impose reasonable time limits on each party’s presentation. The
finding of the Board of Supervisors shall be final and conclusive and shall be
served upon the appellant in the manner prescribed by this chapter for service of
notice of hearing. Any amount found to be due shall be immediately due and payable
upon the service of the notice.

Section 29. Conviction for Chapter Violation - Taxes not Waived. The conviction
and punishment of any person for failure to pay the required tax shall not excuse or
exempt such person from any civil action for the tax debt unpaid at the time of such
conviction. No civil action shall prevent a criminal prosecution for any violation of
the provisions of this Chapter or of any state law requiring the payment of all taxes.

Section 30. Violation Deemed Misdemeanor. Any person violating any of the
provisions of this Chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
punishable therefore as provided by Chapter 1, Section 7 of the Sonoma County
Code.

Section 31. Severability. If any provision of this Chapter, or its application to any
person or circumstance, is determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be
unlawful, unenforceable or otherwise void, that determination shall have no effect
on any other provision of this Chapter or the application of this Chapter to any other
person or circumstance and, to that end, the provisions hereof are severable. The
Board of Supervisors hereby declares that it would have passed this Ordinance
and every section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of
the fact that any one or more sections, subsections, sentences, clauses or phrases
be declared unconstitutional or invalid.

Section 32. Remedies Cumulative. All remedies and penalties prescribed by this
Chapter or which are available under Chapter 1 of the Sonoma County Code and
any other provision of law or equity are cumulative. The use of one or more reme-
dies by the County shall not bar the use of any other remedy for the purpose of en-
forcing the provisions of this Chapter.

Section 33. Amendment or Repeal. This Chapter may be repealed or amended by
the Board of Supervisors without a vote of the people to the extent allowed by law.
However, as required by Article XIIIC of the California Constitution, voter approval
is required for any amendment that would increase the rate of any tax levied
pursuant to this Chapter above the maximum rates established by this Chapter.
The people of the County of Sonoma affirm that the following actions shall not con-
stitute an increase of the rate of a tax:

A.	The restoration of the rate of the tax to a rate that is no higher than
that set by this Chapter, if the Board of Supervisors has acted to reduce the rate of
the tax;

B.	An action that interprets or clarifies the methodology of the tax, or
any definition applicable to the tax, so long as interpretation or clarification (even if
contrary to some prior interpretation or clarification) is not inconsistent with the
language of this Chapter; or

C.	The collection of the tax imposed by this Chapter, even if the
County had, for some period of time, failed to collect the tax; or

D.	The establishment of a class of persons that is exempt or excepted
from the tax or the discontinuation of any such exemption or exception (other
than the discontinuation of an exemption or exception specifically set forth in this
chapter); or

E.	The Board of Supervisors’ adoption of an ordinance, as authorized
by Section 5, to raise the tax rate provided that the rate is not raised to a rate higher
than the maximums established herein.

Section 34. CEQA. The approval of this Ordinance is exempt from the California
Environmental Quality Act (Public Resources Code §§ 21000 et seq., “CEQA,” and
14 Cal. Code Reg. §§ 15000 et seq., “CEQA Guidelines”). The Cannabis Business
Tax to be submitted to the voters is a general tax that can be used for any legitimate
governmental purpose; it is not a commitment to any particular action. As such,
under CEQA Guidelines section 15378(b)(4), the tax is not a project within the
meaning of CEQA because it creates a government funding mechanism that does
not involve any commitment to any specific project that may result in a potentially
significant physical impact on the environment. If revenue from the tax were used
for a purpose that would have either such effect, the County would undertake the
required CEQA review for that particular project. Therefore, pursuant to CEQA
Guidelines section 15060 CEQA analysis is not required.

Section 35. Effective and Operative Dates. This ordinance shall take effect
immediately upon its adoption by a majority of voters at the March 7,2017 election.
The operative date of Section 5 shall be April 6,2017.

CONT. NEXT PAGE

49-508

9451

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE A, CONT.

In regular session of the Board of Supervisors of the County of Sonoma
introduced on the 6th day of December, 2016, and finally passed and adopted this
13th day of December, 2016, on regular roll call of the members of said Board by
the following vote:

SUPERVISORS:

Gorin: Aye Rabbitt: Aye Zane: Aye	Gore: Aye	Carrillo: Aye

Ayes: 5	Noes: 0	Absent: 0	Abstain: 0

WHEREUPON, the Chair declared the above and foregoing Ordinance duly
adopted and

SO ORDERED.

Chair, Board of Supervisors
County of Sonoma

ATTEST:

Sheryl Bratton,

Clerk of the Board of Supervisors

49-509

9451

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

SONOMA VALLEY HEALTH CARE DISTRICT
MEASURE B

Shall the Sonoma Valley Health Care District renew its

B expiring parcel tax for five years at up to $250 per parcel
per year, raising an estimated $3.8 million annually, in
order to assure the continued operation of the hospital
emergency room, offset continuing reductions in reimbursements
by Federal and State health insurance programs which are below
the cost of providing hospital services and ensure the availability
of acute hospital care and other hospital services at Sonoma
Valley Hospital?

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE B

The Sonoma Valley Health Care District has called a special election on a special
parcel tax measure to fund local access to health care services. State law requires
voter approval before a health care district can impose a special tax. Measure B
was placed on the ballot by a 4-0 vote of the District Board of Directors.

Currently, the District imposes a special parcel tax at a maximum rate of $195 per
year per parcel to fund health care services. This tax expires on June 30, 2017.
Measure B would continue this tax for another five years, commencing July 1,
2017, and increase the maximum rate to $250 per year per parcel. It is estimated
that the proposed tax will generate $3,800,000 in revenue annually.

Proceeds of the tax would be placed in a special fund held by the Sonoma County
Treasurer and could only be used for the purposes set out in the measure, which
include providing adequate funding to ensure continued local access to emergency
room care, acute hospital care, and other health care services for residents of the
District. No portion of the tax would be spent on capital improvements, other than
improvements made in connection with day-to-day operational needs of the District.
Measure B would also raise the District’s “spending limit” during the first year the
parcel tax is levied to allow the District to spend the proceeds of the tax for these
purposes. State law establishes additional accountability measures which require
the chief fiscal officer of the district to file an annual report with the District’s Board
of Directors stating the amount of funds collected and expended, and the status of
any project required or authorized to be funded by the tax measure.

The tax would be applied to each unit of real property in the District that receives a
separate tax bill for property taxes. Multiple parcels that are contiguous and are
part of one economic unit under the same name and ownership would be charged
as one parcel. Parcels which are exempt from property tax, or on which no property tax
is otherwise levied, are also exempt from this tax. The measure also states that the
District will continue to employ its currently established administrative review process
to grant exemptions and to consider appeals with respect to the determination of
contiguous parcels. The tax rate may not be increased beyond the maximum
annual rate without approval of the voters of the District.

If two-thirds of the voters in the Sonoma Valley Health Care District who vote on
this measure vote “yes,” the measure will pass and the special parcel tax will be
levied. The tax would be collected in the same manner as regular property taxes
starting with the 2017-2018 fiscal year.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE B

We are fortunate to have the Sonoma Valley Hospital conveniently located here in
the Valley. Sonoma Valley Hospital has an outstanding record for quality and
safety as measured by the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services, a federal
agency.

We encourage you to vote Yes on Measure B to ensure that those who rely on the
Sonoma Valley Hospital can continue to access emergency and other medical
services quickly and conveniently here in Sonoma. During this past year, over
10,000 patients utilized the services of the Emergency Room and avoided a
time-consuming trip out of the Valley in a time of stress.

Many in our area are seniors who rely on Medicare coverage. We need to make
sure they can access emergency care here in Sonoma. The Emergency Room is
the only Emergency Room in the Valley and is available for all, regardless of type of
insurance (Blue Cross, Kaiser, Medicare, Medi-Cal, etc.), or for patients without
insurance, regardless of the ability to pay.

We feel the annual tax of $250 is a reasonable price to pay for assurance that we
will continue to have local Emergency Room services should our friends and
neighbors in the district need it. The tax support is needed to offset the below cost
reimbursement that the Hospital receives from state and federal insurance
programs.

We hope that we will not have to visit the emergency room in the coming years. But
we will be at ease knowing that the Sonoma Valley Hospital will provide for our
needs if anything were to happen.

We strongly encourage you to join us and vote Yes on Measure B and ensure that
we will continue to have local access to emergency and other medical services
here in Sonoma Valley.

si Madolyn Agrimonti	si William R.	Hutchinson

si Doug McKesson	si	William	E.	Lynch

si Brian Sebastian, MD

NO ARGUMENT WAS SUBMITTED AGAINST MEASURE B

BRUCE D. GOLDSTEIN
County Counsel

By: si Robert Pittman

Assistant County Counsel

49-510

9742

VOTER’S PAMPHLET MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS  (whichever is applicable to your ballot)  Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.	
FULL TEXT OF MEASURE B  The District will renew the parcel tax levy on each taxable parcel of land within the District, at an annual rate of up to $250 per parcel for five (5) years.  The purpose of the parcel tax will be to supplement State and Federal insurance payments which are below the cost of providing hospital services in order to ensure continued local access to hospital emergency room care, acute hospital care, and other hospital services for residents of the District and visitors to the area.  The parcel tax will not be used for capital improvements other than improve- ments made in connection with the day-to-day operational needs of the District.  The District’s appropriations limit will be established at an amount equal to the available funding during the first year of the parcel tax at the rate of $250 per parcel.  The amount of money to be raised annually by the parcel tax levy is esti- mated to be $3.8 million.  Taxable parcels are those that appear on the annual secured County prop- erty tax roll.  The following exemption will apply to the levy and collection of the parcel tax: with respect to multiple parcels that are contiguous and in the same ownership and that cannot be individually sold, leased (except for agricultural purposes) or financed, only one such parcel will be subject to the parcel tax.  The District will continue to employ its currently established administrative review process to grant exemptions and consider appeals with respect to contigu- ous parcels.  The parcel tax revenues will be deposited into a fund held by the County Treasurer.  The District will cause to be filed an annual report with its Board of Directors, commencing not later than January 1,2018, and annually thereafter, which report will be for the year ended June 30 of the prior year and contain information regard- ing the amount of parcel tax revenues collected and expended.	

VOTER’S PAMPHLET MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS  (whichever is applicable to your ballot)  Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.	
	CONT. NEXT PAGE