SONOMA
VALLEY HOSPITAL

SONOMA VALLEY HEALTH CARE DISTRICT
Healing Here at Home

SONOMA VALLEY HEALTH CARE DISTRICT

BOARD OF DIRECTORS

RESOLUTION No. 334 PARCEL TAX

WHEREAS, Sonoma Valley Health Care District (the "District") has established the
mission of serving the health needs of the Sonoma Valley community through Sonoma Valley
Hospital; and

WHEREAS, following the Board's adoption of District Resolution No. 308, in October of
2011, the voters of the District overwhelmingly approved the imposition of a real estate parcel
tax of $195 per taxable parcel per year for five years to provide adequate funding to ensure
continued local access to emergency room care, acute hospital care, and other health care
services for residents of the District; and

WHEREAS, the current parcel tax expires on June 30, 2017; and

WHEREAS, on March 7, 2017, although 64.8% of the voters of the District supported
Measure B which would have imposed a new parcel tax of $250 per parcel per year, the Yes
vote fell 1.9% short of the two thirds majority needed to pass the measure; and

WHEREAS, the District, like most in California, is experiencing the impact of reduced
reimbursement by Federal, State and private health insurance programs, along with the
decreased census in inpatient care created by changing regulations, and

WHEREAS, in Fiscal Year 2016, 74% of District services provided, as defined by gross
revenues, were to patients with Federal or State health insurance, and

WHEREAS, the reimbursement revenue from these Federal and State insurance
programs for these services is below the cost of providing these services; and

WHEREAS, the Federal supplemental payment for hospitals serving a disproportionate
share of disadvantaged patients is anticipated to be reduced by $1 million per year in 2018; and

WHEREAS, the District is authorized under Section 53730.01 of the California
Government Code to impose special taxes uniformly on all real property within its boundaries
(a parcel tax); and

WHEREAS, the District is not authorized to impose any tax other than a parcel tax to
support Hospital operations; and

WHEREAS, without the parcel tax revenues, the District's revenues are not sufficient to
ensure continued operation of the Hospital and its emergency room; and

WHEREAS, the District Board of Directors recognizes the adverse financial dynamics
inherent in the current payor and patient mix, the Board pledges over the next five years to
make its best efforts to continue to identify new services and revenue streams with positive
operating margins.

THEREFORE, WE RESOLVE that:

1.	The District hereby proposes to renew the parcel tax, as authorized under Section
53730.01 of the California Government Code that it will use to ensure continued operation of the
Hospital and its emergency room and it will not use the parcel tax for capital improvements,
other than improvements made in connection with the day-to-day operational needs of the
District.

2.	The District hereby calls an election for June 6, 2017, to be held within the boundaries
of the District, and requests the Board of Supervisors of the County of Sonoma (the "County")
to consolidate that election with all other elections to be held on such date, on the measure set
forth in Section 3.

3.	The District hereby sets the full text of the measure to be placed on tire ballot for the
election of June 6, 2017, as follows:

^ The District will replace the expiring parcel tax of $195 per parcel per year with a
parcel tax levy on each taxable parcel of land within the District, at an annual rate of
$250, an increase of $55, per parcel per year for five (5) years to ensure continued
operation of the Hospital and its Emergency Room.

The parcel tax will continue to be used to supplement the reimbursement for
patients with State and Federal insurance which are below the cost of providing the
hospital's services and which accounted for 74% of the services provided by the Hospital
in fiscal 2016.

The increase of $55 in the parcel tax is necessary to offset the anticipated $1
million reduction per year beginning in 2018 in Federal supplemental payments to
hospitals serving a disproportionate share of disadvantaged patients.

Without approval of this measure on June 6, 2017, the Hospital will likely not
have sufficient cash on hand to remain open throughout the 2018 fiscal year as the
Hospital will not receive any parcel tax revenue during the 2018 fiscal year. (June 30,
2017 is the approval cutoff date for a parcel tax to be included in the 2017 tax bill.)

The parcel tax will not be used for capital improvements other than
improvements made in connection with the day-to-day operational needs of the District.

The District's appropriations limit will be established at an amount equal to the
available funding during the first year of the parcel tax at the rate of $250 per parcel.

The amount of money to be raised annually by the parcel tax levy is estimated to
be $3.8 million.

Taxable parcels are those that appear on the annual secured County property tax

roll.

The following exemption will apply to the levy and collection of the parcel tax:
with respect to multiple parcels that are contiguous and in the same ownership and that
cannot be individually sold, leased (except for agricultural purposes) or financed, only
one such parcel will be subject to the parcel tax.

The District will continue to employ its currently established administrative
review process to grant exemptions and consider appeals with respect to contiguous
parcels.

The parcel tax revenues will be deposited into a fund held by the County
Treasurer.

The District will cause to be filed an annual report with its Board of Directors,
commencing not later than January 1, 2018, and annually thereafter, which report will be
for the year ended June 30 of the prior year and contain information regarding the
amount of parcel tax revenues collected and expended.

4n><> \Amc~^r

M>tl

4.	The District hereby sets the abbreviated ballot form of the measure appearing in
Section 3 as follows:

“Shall the Sonoma Valley Health Care District replace the expiring $195 parcel
tax with a tax of $250, a $55 increase, per parcel per year for five years, raising an
estimated $3.8 million annually, in order to offset continuing reductions in
reimbursements from Federal and State health insurance programs, which are already
below the cost of providing hospital services and assure the continued operation of the
Sonoma Valley Hospital and the availability of an Emergency Room in our Valley?”

5.	The District hereby proposes to establish its appropriations limit under Article XIIIB
of the California Constitution at an amount equal to the amount of available funding for the
first year of the parcel tax at the rate of $250 per parcel. "Available funding" will have the same
meaning under this Resolution as is given the term "proceeds of taxes" in Article XIIIB of the
California Constitution.

6.	The County Tax Collector will collect the parcel tax at the same time that it collects the
general and ad valorem taxes, and along with the collection of those taxes. The parcel tax will be
subject to the same penalties as general and ad valorem taxes.

7.	The District will impose the parcel tax only if two-thirds (2/3) of those voting approve

it.

PASSED AND ADOPTED on March 9, 2017, by the following vote:

tr

AYES:	_±___

NOES:	_____

ABSENT:	_____

ABSTAIN:	_____

DISTRICT

lanq/tiirsch. Chair

JOMA VALLEY HEALTH CARE
DISTRICT