733 Cedar Street
Garberville, CA 95542
(707) 923-3921

SOUMRNHLIflBOLDT

H A

COMMUNITY HEALTHCARE DISTRICT

RESOLUTION 16:28

RESOLUTION TO CONTINUE VOTER-APPROVED FUNDING

WITH NEW TAX RATE

WHEREAS, The Southern Humboldt Community Healthcare District ("District") was
formed in 1978 following a successful election in June of 1978, consistent with the powers granted by
Health and Safety Code section 32000; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Government Code sections 50075 et seq., the District has the
authority to impose a special tax, as it has been doing since 1988; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Election Code sections 4000 et seq., on May 8, 2007 the
registered voters within the boundaries of the District in both Humboldt County and Mendocino County
approved the imposition of a special tax ("Existing Tax") to provide adequate funding to ensure
continued local access to emergency room care, acute hospital care, and other health care services
and facilities for residents of the District; and

WHEREAS, the Existing Tax expires on June 30, 2018; and

WHEREAS, Section 4 of Article XIII A of the California Constitution and Government
Code section 53730.01 authorize a health care district to impose and levy a special tax for specified
purposes upon approval of two-thirds of the electorate voting on the measure;

WHEREAS, existing community funding has been instrumental in ensuring residents
24-hour emergency access to a doctor on duty, and maintaining additional locally-based healthcare
clinics and services throughout the District; and

WHEREAS, the District finds it necessary to propose a renewal of the Existing Tax
("Measure") at the rates set forth herein to eligible voters for approval; and

WHEREAS, this Measure will increase the tax rate currently paid by voters; and

WHEREAS, to ensure all funds are spent efficiently and as promised, this Measure
requires public disclosure of all expenditures and oversight by the District's Board of Directors elected
by local voters; and

WHEREAS, District finds it necessary to continue and increase the Existing Tax for
another 45 year period; and

WHEREAS, in the judgment of this Board of Directors ("Board"), following public
hearing and comment, it is advisable to request that the Humboldt County and Mendocino County
Registrar of Voters call a special election by all-mail ballot to submit to the District voters the question
whether the District shall levy a special tax for the purposes set forth herein; and

Page 1 of 4

WHEREAS, the District held a properly noticed public hearing regarding this matter as
required by law; and

WHEREAS, a special tax requires approval of two-thirds (2/3) of the votes cast by
voters voting upon the Measure; and

WHEREAS, the District acknowledges that the election will be conducted in the manner
as prescribed in Elections Code section 4108; and

NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS RESOLVED that the Board of the District hereby continues
the Existing Tax (hereafter referred to as "the Tax") within the boundaries of the District, subject to
the approval of 2/3 of the votes cast by voters voting on the Measure as set forth below, for the
purpose of assisting the District in meeting the costs of providing adequate local access to emergency
room care, acute hospital care, and other health care services and facilities for residents of the District
as set forth in paragraph 3 of this Resolution as follows:

1.	The District hereby proposes to renew the parcel tax, as authorized under Section 53730.01 of
the California Government Code that it will use to ensure, all together, or individually to one of these
purposes: continued local access to hospital emergency room care, acute hospital care, other
healthcare services, and new and improved healthcare facilities for residents of the District.

2.	Pursuant to Elections Code Section 4108, the Board does hereby call a special election on
Tuesday, May 2, 2017, by all-mail ballots, on the measure set forth in Paragraph 4.

3.	The District hereby sets the full text of the measure to be placed in the ballot, in the voter
information pamphlet to be distributed to voters for the election of Tuesday, May 2, 2017, as follows:

SOUTHERN HUMBOLDT COMMUNITY HEALTHCARE DISTRICT PARCEL TAX FOR
EMERGENCY ROOM CARE, ACUTE HOSPITAL CARE AND OTHER HEALTH SERVICES

AND NEW OR IMPROVED FACILITIES

The Southern Humboldt Community Healthcare District will levy a special tax on each taxable
parcel of land within the District at the annual rate of $170 on all qualified parcels within the
District's boundaries, a special tax for a period of forty-five (45) years beginning July 1, 2018
and ending on June 30, 2065.

The term "qualified parcel" as used in this resolution shall be defined as every assessor's
parcel for the applicable tax year, except those parcels which have a low value exemption as
determined by the County Board of Supervisors and those vacant parcels which are
determined by the County Assessors to be wholly or partially within a Timberland Production
Zone or under an Agricultural Preserve Contract.

The purpose of this parcel tax will be to ensure, all together, or as individual uses of the tax
funds, continued local access to emergency care, acute hospital care, other health services,
and new or improved facilities for residents of the District and visitors to the area. The
revenues raised by this special tax will only be used to defray operating expenses, capital
improvement and facility related expenditures, including a new hospital, and debt repayment
to accomplish the foregoing purposes.

The District's appropriations limit will be increased by the amount of this voter-approved tax.

The amount of money to be raised annually by the parcel tax levy is estimated to be $1.63
million dollars.

The special tax revenues shall be deposited into a separate account held by the Mendocino or
Humboldt County Treasurer, as appropriate, in accordance with Government Code Section
50075.1, and shall be expended solely for the above-stated purposes and according to a plan

Page 2 of 4

developed annually by the District staff and approved and adopted by the District's Board of
Directors.

The District will cause to be filed an annual report with its Board of Directors, which report
shall include the amount of special tax revenues collected and expended, and which shall
otherwise comply with the accountability measures established in Government Code Sections
50075.1 et seq.

4.	The District hereby sets the abbreviated ballot form of the measure appearing in Paragraph 3
as follows:

Shall the Southern Humboldt Community Healthcare District renew its expiring parcel tax to
continue providing local access to hospital emergency care, physician clinic services, other healthcare
programs and services, including a new hospital and new or improved healthcare facilities? The
renewed tax will be at a new rate of $170 per year on all qualified parcels, annually providing $1.63
million dollars per year for 45 years beginning July 1, 2018.

5.	The tax shall take effect for forty-five (45) years on July 1, 2018 and shall be assessed against
each taxable parcel of land within the District at the rate of $170 per parcel. The term "qualified
parcel" as means every assessor's parcel for the applicable tax year, except those parcels which have
a low value exemption as determined by the County Board of Supervisors and those vacant parcels
which are determined by the County Assessors to be wholly or partially within a Timberland Production
Zone or under an Agricultural Preserve Contract.

6.	The tax shall be collected by the Humboldt or Mendocino County Tax Collector, as appropriate,
at the same time, in the same manner and subject to the same penalties as ad valorem property
taxes collected by the Treasurer-Tax Collector. Unpaid taxes shall bear interest at the same rate as
the rate for unpaid ad valorem property taxes until paid. The collection of the parcel tax shall not
decrease the funds available from other sources of the District in any period from the effective date
hereof.

7.	The District requests that the Registrars of Voters take all steps necessary to hold the election
by all-mail ballot pursuant to Division 4 of the Elections Code (commencing with Section 4000).

8.	The District shall bear the cost of the election.

9.	The Chair of this Board or designees are hereby authorized to prepare and file with the
Registrars of Voters a ballot argument in favor of the tax measure, or act as an author of any ballot
argument prepared in connection with the election, including a rebuttal argument, each within the
time established by the Registrars of Voters, which shall be considered the official ballot arguments of
this Board as sponsor of the measure.

10.	The Chair of the Board or designees are hereby authorized to execute any other document
and to perform all acts necessary to place the tax measure on the ballot, including making alterations
in the ballot language stated in Paragraphs 3 and 4 hereto, and to comply with requirements of law
and election officials.

11.	The Board hereby proposes to increase its appropriations limit under Article XIII B of the
California Constitution in an amount equal to the amount of proceeds of taxes for the first year the
parcel tax is imposed.

12.	The District shall levy the tax upon approval of two-thirds of the votes cast by voters voting
upon the measure.

13.	The authority for ordering this election is contained in Section 4 of Article XIII A of the
California Constitution and Government Code sections 53730.01 and 50075 et seq. The authority for
holding an all-mail ballot election is contained in Section 4000 of the Elections Code. The Board
hereby authorizes the use of mailed ballots for this election.

14. The Clerk of this District Board is ordered to deliver copies of the Resolution to the Registrars
of Voters.

THE FOREGOING RESOLUTION WAS ADOPTED upon motion of Director Gary Wellborn.
Seconded by Director Corinne Stromstad at a special meeting on Tuesday, December 27, 2016, by the
following roll call vote:

Ayes:	Dave Ordonez.	Alison	Rivas. Corinne	Stromstad.	and	Gary	Wellborn

Noes:	None

Absent:	None

Abstain:	Board	President Barbara Truitt who	was	out	of state at the	time of the vote.

., Vice-Chair of the Board of Directors

Attest:



Board Member/Finance Committee Chair

Page 4 of 4