ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE PS

Vote “Yes” on Measure PS for Public Safety!

Vote “Yes” to Preserve and Save current levels of police protection services in
Cudahy!

For the first time in City’s history, you can determine City’s future police services
levels for the next five years. Approval by 2/3 vote would generate approximately
$2,000,000, half of City’s annual $4,000,000 police service costs which are rapidly
rising. If the parcel tax is approved, by law Measure PS dollars can only be used
to pay police protection services.

The economic recession of 2008 and the loss of $8,000,000 total since 2012 after
Governor Brown dissolved the City’s Community Redevelopment Agency
further exacerbated the City’s Budget. Despite these challenges, in 2015, the City
Council, recognizing that safety is critical to maintaining a stable and prosperous
community, voted to reinstate minimum police deployment services and
allocated additional funding for a dedicated deputy to establish a Neighborhood
Watch Program at a cost of $250,000. Recently enhanced police services
including Neighborhood Watch and Crime Free Multi-Family Programs have led
to the City recently being named the 76th Safest City in California.

To maintain these very significant public safety gains, Cudahy voters are urged to
vote “Yes” on Measure PS, a temporary parcel tax that will expire in 5 years. The
tax will be paid by the owners of real property; not by tenants or renters. It will
raise necessary funding to maintain current levels of police services and free up
scarce general fund dollars needed to pay for street repairs, youth recreation
programs and other revitalization efforts. Cudahy families and their children
deserve a safe community environment.

Vote “YES” for Public Safety!

Vote “YES” to Promote Security!

Vote “YES” on Measure PS!

For more detailed information, read the ONE Cudahy magazine and reference
the Fundraising at the Polls article.

CHRISTIAN HERNANDEZ
Vice Mayor

NOTICE OF MEASURE TO BE VOTED ON
IN THE CITY OF CUDAHY, CALIFORNIA

NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the following measure is to be voted on at the
General Municipal Election held in the City of Cudahy (the “City”) on Tuesday, March 7,
2017.

Shall the 2017 Temporary Public Safety Funding	YES
Ordinance imposing an excise tax of $139 per	
parcel per year on single-family and unimproved	
property; $181 per dwelling per year on multifamily	NO
property; and between $1,550 to $49,600 per	
parcel per year on industrial, commercial,	
mobilehome park and other nonresidential	
properties be adopted for 5 years to raise	
approximately $2,000,000 per year to pay for	
approximately half of the City’s annual cost of	
providing police protection services?	

Measure PS would establish a parcel tax on real property parcels in the City. Proceeds
of the tax could only be used to pay for police protection services in the City and for no
other purpose. Such eligible police protection services uses for Measure PS funds
include paying for police equipment and police personnel costs, including contracted
police protection services provided by the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department.
The owner of each real property parcel subject to the tax would be responsible for
paying the tax, which would be collected through property owners’ annual property tax
bills.

The entire text of the measure is available on the City’s website at
http://www.cityofcudahy.com/city-clerk.html or you may obtain a copy from the City
Clerk’s Office during the business hours of Monday through Thursday 8:00 a.m. to 7:00
p.m. The polls will be open between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m.

This notice shall be published in accordance with Section 12111 of the California
Elections Code.

By: Richard Iglesias,

Deputy City Clerk

Date Published: Saturday, February 18, 2017

Measure PS - 2017 Temporary Public Safety Funding Ordinance
City Attorneys Impartial Analysis

Measure PS, the “2017 Temporary Public Safety Funding Ordinance” would
establish a parcel tax on real property parcels in the City of Cudahy (“City”).
Proceeds of the tax may only be used to pay for police protection services in the
City and for no other purpose. Eligible uses for Measure PS funds include
paying for police equipment and paying for the cost of police personnel. The
proceeds may also be used to pay for contracted police protection services
provided by the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department.

Currently, it costs the City approximately $4.0M per year to provide police
protection services at its current level of service. The tax imposed under
Measure PS is estimated to raise approximately half of this amount or
approximately $2.0M. Without the tax, the City may need to consider lowering its
current levels of service in order to reduce costs.

The tax has a 5-year sunset and will expire automatically on June 30, 2022.

The owner of each real property parcel subject to the tax would be responsible
for paying the tax. The tax would be collected through the property owner’s
annual property tax bill.

•	The tax for single family residential parcels is $139 per parcel per year;

•	The tax for unimproved parcels would also be $139 per parcel per year;

•	The tax for multifamily residential parcels (i.e., a single parcel containing
multiple residential dwelling units) would pay $181 per single family
residential dwelling on the parcel;

•	The amount of the tax paid for other parcels (e.g., industrial parcels,
commercial parcels and mobilehome park land) is based on the square
footage of the parcel as follows:

Parcel Use	Parcel Size

Type	(square feet)

Other parcel	0 to 9,999

10.000	to 24,999

25.000	to 49,999

50.000	to 99,999

100.000	to 249,999

250.0000	plus

Annual Parcel Tax
Rate (Starting

with FY2017-2018)

$1,550 per parcel
$3,100 per parcel
$6200 per parcel
$12,400 per parcel
$24,800 per parcel
$49,600 per parcel

Parcels that are legally exempt from federal taxation under the IRS code as well
as government-owned property are exempt from the tax.

Measure PS must be approved by a 2/3 majority of those casting votes at the
March 7, 2017 General Municipal Election in order to be approved.

Rick Olivarez
City Attorney

EXHIBIT “A”

Text of

2017 Temporary Public Safety Funding Ordinance

ORDINANCE NO. 664

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF CUDAHY,
CALIFORNIA ADDING A NEW CHAPTER 3.30 TO
BE ENTITLED “2017 TEMPORARY PUBLIC
SAFETY FUNDING ORDINANCE” TO TITLE 3
(REVENUE AND FINANCE) OF THE CUDAHY
MUNICIPAL CODE.

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF CUDAHY DO ORDIANE AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. The Cudahy Municipal Code is hereby amended by the addition of
a new Chapter 3.30 (2017 Temporary Public Safety Funding Ordinance) to Title
3 (Revenue and Finance) of the Cudahy Municipal Code. This newly added
Chapter 3.30 shall state the following:

Chapter 3.30

2017 Temporary Public Safety Funding Ordinance

3.30.010	Definitions

3.30.020	Tax Imposed

3.30.030	Amount of Tax

3.30.040 Use of tax proceeds

3.30.050 Determination of uses and number of residential units
3.30.060	Collection with Property Taxes

3.30.070	Exemptions

3.30.080	Administrative Determinations; Appeal

3.30.090	Appropriations limitations

3.30.100	Administrative interpretation

3.30.110	Five-year Sunset Period.

3.30.120	Purpose, Intent and Authority.

3.30.130	Findings.

3.30.010 Definitions.

As used herein, the following definitions shall apply:

“Consumer Price Index” or “CPI” means the Consumer Price Index for All
Urban Consumers (CPI-U) for the Los Angeles-Riverside-Orange County area as
published by the U.S. Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics.

“Developed” shall be defined in administrative regulations adopted
pursuant to Section 3.30.100.

1

Fiscal year” shall mean the period of July 1st through the following June

30th.

“Mixed-use property” shall be defined in administrative regulations adopted
pursuant to Section 3.30.100.

“Multifamily residential parcel” shall mean any single real property parcel
which contains two or more single family residential dwellings wherein no one I
single family residential dwelling possess its own unique assessor parcel number
and each such dwelling is not alienable from any of the other dwellings on the
single parcel. For purposes of this Chapter, the term multifamily residential
parcel does not include real property parcels used for mobile home park use,
whether or not any or all of the individual mobile home coaches is owned or
leased by the occupant of the coach or is owned or leased by the owner or
tenant of the real property parcel upon which the mobile home coach is located.

“Other parcel” shall mean all other real property parcels in the City, other
than those falling within the definition of the terms “single family residential parcel”
or “multifamily residential parcel”. For purposes of this chapter, the term “other
parcel” shall include parcels used for mobile home park use, whether or not any
or all of the individual mobile home coaches is owned or leased by the occupant
of the mobilehome coach or is owned or leased by the owner or tenant of the real
property parcel upon which the mobile home coach is located.

“Owner” shall mean the owner or owners of the real property to which
police protection services are available, as shown on Los Angeles County’s most
recent assessment rolls of the County of Los Angeles.

“Parcel” means the land, and any improvements thereon, designated by an
assessor’s parcel map and parcel number and carried on the secured property
tax roll of Los Angeles County.

“Police protection services” means obtaining, furnishing, operating and/or
maintaining police protection equipment or apparatus, paying the salaries and
benefits of police protection personnel and support staff, and such other police
protection services expenses as are deemed necessary by the City Council for
the benefit of the residents and businesses of the City. Police protection services
includes all of the foregoing whether or not the City provides such services
directly using its own equipment and/or personnel or whether such services are
provided by way of a contract with any other public law enforcement agency,
including but not limited to the Sheriff’s Department of the County of Los Angeles.

“Single-family residential parcel” shall mean any lawful, residential real
property parcel with its own unique assessor parcel number containing only one
(1) single family residential dwelling, whether or not the single family residential

2

dwelling is detached or whether it is attached to another single family residential
dwelling with its own separate assessor parcel number.

“Single-family residential dwelling” means a building or structure or portion
of a building or structure composed one or more rooms, designed and lawfully
used for human habitation as a separate living quarters, with cooking, sleeping
and sanitary facilities provided within the dwelling unit for the exclusive use of a
single person or single family maintaining a household within said building or
structure or portion thereof.

“Tax Administrator” shall mean the City Manager or designee.

“Unimproved” shall be in administrative regulations adopted pursuant to
Section 3.30.100.

“Year” shall mean the period from July 1st to the following June 30th
3.30.020	Tax imposed.

A.	An annual tax for police protection services (“tax”) in the amounts
set forth in Section 3.20.030 is hereby levied upon the owners of real property
parcels within the City.

B.	The tax is an excise tax imposed on the owner of each real
property parcel subject to the tax as of July 1st of each year.

C.	The owner of each real property parcel giving rise to tax liability
under this Chapter shall be responsible for the payment of the tax due and
payable hereunder. The tax constitutes a debt owed by the owner to the City.

3.30.030	Amount of tax.

A.	The tax on each real property parcel in the City shall depend on the
following factors: (i) the use of real property parcel, including its status as an
unimproved parcel; (ii) in the case of multifamily residential parcels, the number
of single family residential dwellings on the parcel; and (iii) in the case of other
parcels, the size of the parcel. The tax per year on each parcel in the City shall
not exceed the amount applicable to the parcel, as specified below.

B.	No later than July 15th of each year, Tax Administrator shall
determine the amount of taxes to be levied upon the parcels in the City for the
then-current fiscal year as set forth in this section.

Annual Tax Rate Schedule

Parcel Use Type	Parcel Size (square feet)	Annual Parcel Tax Rate (Starting with FY2017-2018)
Single family residential parcel		

3

(single parcel contains only one single family residential dwelling)	N/A	$139 per parcel
Unimproved parcel	N/A	$139 per parcel
Multifamily residential parcel	N/A	$181 per single family
(single parcel contains multiple		residential dwelling on the
residential dwelling units)		parcel
Other parcel	0 to 9,999	$1,550 per parcel
	10,000 to 24,999	$3,100 per parcel
	25,000 to 49,999	$6200 per parcel
	50,000 to 99,999	$12,400 per parcel
	100,000 to 249,999	$24,800 per parcel
	250,0000 plus	$49,600 per parcel

C.	With respect to mixed-use parcels, the applicable annual tax rate
imposed under this Chapter shall be determined as follows: (i) those portions of
the real property parcel with uses that qualify as single family residential parcel
uses shall be taxed at the rate applicable for single family residential parcels; (ii)
those portions of the real property parcel with uses that qualify as multifamily
residential parcel uses shall be taxed at the rate applicable to multifamily
residential parcels; and (iii) and those portions of the real property parcel with
uses that qualify as other parcel uses shall be taxed at a rate applicable to other
parcel uses. Unless otherwise excluded under the administrative guidelines
authorized under Section 3.30.100 of this Chapter, all common areas of a mixed-
use development shall be counted toward the square footage size of those
portions of the mixed-use property that qualify as other parcel uses.

D.	As authorized by Government Code Section 53739(b), annually
each July, the Tax Administrator shall adjust the tax rates established under this
Section by the percentage increase, if any, in the January Consumer Price Index.
If the percentage change in the January Consumer Price Index is zero or
negative, the tax rate shall remain unchanged from the prior fiscal year. The
foregoing notwithstanding, no annual percentage increase in the tax rates shall
be more than two percent (2%). If the Consumer Price Index is discontinued or
revised, such other government index or computation with which it is replaced
shall be used in order to obtain substantially the same result as would be
obtained if the Consumer Price Index had not been discontinued or revised.

E.	The taxes levied on each parcel pursuant to this section shall be a
charge upon the parcel and shall be due and collectible as set forth in Section
3.30.060.

3.30.040 Use of tax proceeds.

A.	All proceeds of the tax levied and imposed hereunder shall be
accounted for and paid into a special fund designated for the provision of police

4

protection services in the City.

B.	In accordance with California Government Code Section 50075.3,
the Finance Director shall file an annual report with the City Council that contains
the tax funds collected and expended and the status of any project required or
authorized to be funded with revenue raised by the tax imposed by this chapter.

3.30.050 Determination of uses and number of residential units.

The records of the County Assessor of the County of Los Angeles as of
January 1st of each year and the records of the City shall be used to determine
the actual use of each real property parcel and, for multifamily residential parcels,
the number of residential units, for purposes of determining the tax hereunder.

3.30.060 Collection with Property Taxes

A.	The tax levied and imposed by this Chapter shall be due and
payable each year in the same manner, on the same dates and subject to the
same penalties and interest as established by law for other charges and taxes
fixed and collected by the County of Los Angeles on behalf of the City for the
applicable year. The tax together with all penalties and interest thereon, shall
constitute a lien upon each real property parcel upon which it is levied until it has
been paid, and shall constitute a personal obligation of the record owner of the
real property parcel.

B.	In the event the County of Los Angeles does not collect any tax
amount when due under this Chapter 3.30, then the City Council shall have the
power to authorize the Tax Administrator, by resolution of the City Council to
collect any tax amount and enforce all the provisions of this Chapter 3.30. In
such cases, an assessment may be made by the City against the owner of a real
property parcel in the manner provided by law. Any such unpaid tax amount
collected by the City under this subsection (B) of this Section 3.30.060 shall be
subject to all remedies provided under the Cudahy Municipal Code and other
applicable law.

3.30.070 Exemptions.

A.	Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed as imposing a tax upon
any person when imposition of such tax upon that person would be in violation of
either the Constitution of the United States or the Constitution of the State of
California.

B.	The tax imposed by this Chapter shall not be levied upon any real
property parcel owned by the federal government, the state government, any
state agency, or any local government agency, including the City.

5

C.	The tax imposed by this Chapter shall not be levied against a
property owner with respect to any real property which has been exempted from
the payment of ad valorem property taxes pursuant to Section 214 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, as that section has been interpreted by the laws,
administrative regulations and judicial opinions of the State of California. The
exemption under this subsection (C) of Section 3.30.070 extends to, but is not
limited to, those real property parcels owned by religious organizations or other
charitable or community service organizations that are exempt from the payment
of ad valorem property taxes on the Parcel pursuant to Section 214 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code.

3.30.080 Administrative Determinations; Appeal

A.	In the event an owner of a real property parcel contends the annual
levy of the tax established herein was erroneously computed, levied or paid, the
owner of the real property parcel may apply for a correction of the levy or a
correction of the rate of the tax levied against the real property parcel by timely
submitting a claim to the Tax Administrator. Upon determination of the merit of
each claim, including any error in the computation of the tax rate for the tax, or
the levy of the tax against a particular real property parcel, the Tax Administrator
shall cause the tax for that particular real property parcel to be corrected, as
applicable and shall so advise the Los Angeles County Tax Collector or other
appropriate official. If the Tax Administrator denies a claim for correction or
overpayment or refund, the Tax Administrator shall notify the claimant in writing
along with the reasons for such denial.

B.	All claims, including claims of exemption, refund claims,
overpayment claims, double payment claims or other errors relating to the tax for
a particular year, shall be filed with the Tax Administrator within one (1) year
following the date total payment of an annual tax levy is deemed due according
to the real property parcel owner’s annual tax bill. All such claims for refund of
the amount of the overpayment or double payment shall be filed with the City on
forms furnished by, and in the manner prescribed, by the Tax Administrator. The
one-year appeal period shall also to apply to any sums alleged to have been
overpaid as a result of the allegedly erroneous denial of any exemption set forth
under 3.30.070.

3.30.090	Appropriations limitation.

In no case shall the revenues generated by the tax levied and imposed by
this chapter exceed the limitation established by Article Xlll-B of the Constitution
of the State of California.

3.30.100	Administrative interpretation.

The City Council may, by resolution, adopt guidelines for administrative

matters related to the interpretation and enforcement of this Chapter. Such
guidelines may establish new uses or may modify uses listed in Section 3.20.030
provided, that the maximum for any use can be no more than the rates set out in
Section 3.30.030. The guidelines may also establish definitions for terms set
forth in the Chapter, in addition to those terms defined under Section 3.30.010 of
this Chapter.

3.30.110	Five-Year Sunset Period.

The tax imposed under this Chapter shall apply to the following property
tax fiscal years: 2017-2018; 2018-2019; 2019-2020; 2020-2021; and 2021-2022
and will expire on June 30, 2022, unless extended by approval of the voters as
required by law.

3.30.120	Purpose, Intent and Authority

A.	It is the purpose and intent of this Chapter to authorize the levy of a
tax on owners of real property that are within the city limits of the City of Cudahy
in order to provide funding for police protection services to serve the property and
persons within the City.

B.	This Chapter is adopted pursuant to Government Code Sections
37100.5; 50075 50077; 53722; 53724; 53739; and 53978. The tax proposed
herein shall be effective only if approved by two-thirds of the voters of the City of
Cudahy at the General Municipal Election called for March 7, 2017.

C.	The tax is a special tax within the meaning of Section 4 of Article
XIIIA and Article XIIIC of the California Constitution because it will be used for
specific purposes.

D.	This tax is an excise tax. This tax is not determined according to,
nor in any manner based upon, the value of property. Rather, it is based on the
availability of police protection services to properties within the City.

E.	The revenues raised by this tax are to be used solely for the
purposes of provided police protection services as defined under this Chapter.

3.30.130	Findings.

A.	The City Council recognizes that residential^ and non-residentially
developed parcels both use police protection services. The City Council has,
therefore, determined that the tax should be imposed on both residential^ and
non-residentially developed properties.

B.	Although parcels that are unimproved contain no occupants who
may avail themselves of police services, such parcels generally require and
benefit from some police protection services and may be the response site of

7

calls for service. Accordingly, the City Council has determined that owners of
unimproved shall be subject to this tax.

C.	By approving this Chapter, the People of the City of Cudahy
confirm and adopt these findings in this Section 3.30.130.

SECTION 2. Amendment or Repeal. The City Council is hereby authorized to
adopt additional provisions consistent with the intent of this Ordinance and to
amend the provisions of Section 1 of this Ordinance without voter approval,
provided any such amendment does not extend the tax to the owner of a real
property parcel that would otherwise not be required to pay the tax under its own
terms; or which would increase the amount of the tax above the amount
authorized by Section 2 of this Ordinance. The foregoing shall not prevent or
otherwise prohibit the City of Cudahy from adjusting the amount of the tax paid
by a real property owner to the extent that adjustment is attributable to a change
in the use of the real property parcel or a change in the number of residential
units on the real property parcel.

SECTION 3. Severability. If any provision, section, paragraph, sentence or word
of this Ordinance, or the application thereof to any person or circumstance, is
rendered or declared invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining
provisions, sections, paragraphs, sentences or words of this Ordinance, and their
application to other persons or circumstances, shall not be affected thereby and
shall remain in full force and effect and, to that end, the provisions of this
Ordinance are severable.

SECTION 4. Effective Date. This Ordinance shall take effect immediately upon
the certification of election results for the March 7, 2017 General Municipal
Election contest demonstrating that the ballot measure seeking approval of this
Ordinance received the requisite 2/3rds votes required for approval.

SECTION 5. California Environmental Quality Act. The City Council finds that
under the Guidelines of the California Environmental Quality Act (“CEQA”), the
excise tax established under this Ordinance does not constitute a project
pursuant to CEQA Guidelines 15060(c)(2) and 15378, subdivisions (2) and (4) of
subdivision (b), and therefore review under CEQA is not required.

SECTION 6. Legal Authority for Tax. The tax established under this Ordinance
is established under the authority of, and in compliance with, Government Code
Sections 37100.5; 50075 50077; 53722; 53724; 53739; and 53978.

SECTION 7. Certification. The Mayor is hereby authorized to subscribe this
Ordinance where indicated below to evidence its adoption by the voters of the
City and upon that subscription, the City Clerk shall certify to the passage and
adoption of this Ordinance and shall cause it to be posted according to law.

8

PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED THIS 14th DAY OF November, 2016.

STATE OF CALIFORNIA	)

COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES ) SS:
CITY OF CUDAHY	)

I,	Richard Iglesias, Deputy City Clerk of the City of Cudahy, hereby certify that
the foregoing Ordinance No. 664 was passed and adopted by the City Council of
the City of Cudahy, signed by the Mayor and attested by the Deputy City Clerk at
a regular meeting of said Council held on the 14th day of November, 2016, by the
following vote, to-wit:

AYES:	Garcia, Markovich, Hernandez, Sanchez

NOES:	Guerrero

ABSENT:	None

ABSTAIN:	None

Richard Iglesias
Deputy City Clerk

RESOLUTION NO. 16-36

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
CUDAHY, CALIFORNIA SUPPLEMENTING PRIOR CITY
COUNCIL RESOLUTION NO. 16-26 TO INCLUDE THE
SUBMISSION TO THE VOTERS OF THE CITY OF CUDAHY A
BALLOT MEASURE TO ESTABLISH A PARCEL TAX ON ALL
NON-EXEMPT REAL PROPERTY PARCELS IN THE CITY OF
CUDAHY TO FUND PUBLIC SAFTEY SERVICES

WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of Cudahy (“City Council”) at its Regular
Meeting of September 26, 2016 approved Resolution No. 16-26 which: (1) called for a
gave notice of a General Municipal Election of Two City Councilmembers to be held
March 7, 2017; (2) requested consolidation of such election with the County of Los
Angeles with any and all elections held on such date; (3) requested the County of Los
Angeles to provide specific election administration services for such election; (4)
adopted regulations for candidates for elective office for such election regarding
candidate statements; and (5) provided for the conduct of a special election in the event
of a tie vote for such election of the two city councilmembers; and

WHEREAS, the City Council now wishes to include as part of its call for a March
7, 2016 General Municipal Election, the submission of a ballot measure to the voters of
the City of Cudahy to consider and approve a parcel tax on all non-exempt real property
parcels within the City of Cudahy to help pay for essential police protection services (the
“Measure”); and

WHEREAS, the subject Measure is referred to the as the “2017 Temporary
Public Safety Funding Ordinance”; and

WHEREAS, it is the purpose and intent of this Measure to authorize the levy of a
tax on owners of real property that are within the city limits of the City of Cudahy in
order to provide funding for police protection services; and

WHEREAS, the Measure, and the parcel tax to be established therein, is
submitted for approval by the voters under the authority of, and in compliance with,
Government Code Sections 37100.5; 50075 50077; 53722; 53724; 53739; and 53978;
and

WHEREAS, the tax is a special tax within the meaning of Section 4 of Article
XIIIA and Article XIIIC of the California Constitution because it will be used for specific
purposes; and

WHEREAS, the tax is an excise tax and will not determined according to, nor in
any manner based upon, the value of property. Rather, it will be based on the
availability of police protection services to properties within the City; and

Resolution No. 16-36
Page 2 of 6

WHEREAS, the revenues raised by this tax are to be used solely for the
purposes of providing police protection services; and

WHEREAS, the City Council recognizes that residential^ and non-residentially
developed parcels both use police protection services. The City Council has, therefore,
determined that the tax should be imposed on both residential^ and non-residentially
developed properties; and

WHEREAS, although parcels that are unimproved contain no occupants who
may avail themselves of police services, such parcels generally require and benefit from
some police protection services and may be the response site of calls for service.
Accordingly, the City Council has determined that owners of unimproved parcels shall
be subject to this tax as well; and

WHEREAS, it is desirable that the City’s March 7, 2017 General Municipal
Election, inclusive of the above-subject ballot measure, be consolidated with any and all
elections to be administered by Los Angeles County (the “County”) on the same date
and that the City have the same precincts, polling stations, and election officers within
the City for such election; and

WHEREAS, the City Council affirms its wish for the Office of the Registrar-
Recorder/County Clerk for the County of Los Angeles (the “Registrar”) to canvass the
returns of the City’s March 7, 2017 General Municipal Election; and

WHEREAS, the City seeks the provision of election services from the Registrar
relating to the conduct of the City’s March 7, 2017 General Municipal Election; and

WHEREAS, the City Council approves the printing of the General Municipal
Election information for the election to be held on Tuesday, March 7, 2017, in the
foreign languages requiring translation pursuant to the Voting Rights Act of 1965; and

WHEREAS, Elections Code Section 13307 provides that the City may adopt
regulations pertaining to the recovery of certain costs associated with the printing,
handling, translation, and mailing of candidate statements as filed with the elections
officer; and

WHEREAS, the City shall compensate the County for all necessary expenses
incurred by the County in performing election services for the City, including such
additional expenses now attributable to the addition of the above-subject ballot
measure; and

WHEREAS, Elections Code sections 9280 et seq. sets forth the procedures and
requirements for the preparation and submission of ballot arguments and corresponding
rebuttal arguments in connection with City-initiated ballot measures.

Resolution No. 16-36
Page 3 of 6

NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CUDAHY,
CALIFORNIA, DOES RESOLVE, DECLARE, DETERMINE AND ORDER AS
FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. The Recitals, above, are true and correct.

SECTION 2. That pursuant to the requirements of the laws of the State of
California relating to General Law Cities, as part of the call for a General Municipal
Election as specified under prior Resolution No. 16-26 approved September 26, 2016,
the City Council also orders submitted to the voters the following ballot measure
question:

Shall the 2017 Temporary Public Safety Funding Ordinance imposing an excise tax of $139 per parcel per year on single-family and unimproved property; $181 per dwelling per year on multifamily property; and between $1,550 to $49,600 per parcel per year on	YES [ ]
industrial, commercial, mobilehome park and other nonresidential properties be adopted for 5 years to raise approximately $2,000,000 per year to pay for approximately half of the City’s annual cost of providing police protection services?	NO [ ]

The Measure requires 2/3’s majority approval of those casting votes in order to be
approved. The City respectfully requests that the letter designation “Measure PS” be
assigned to this Measure by the Registrar if such letter designation is available and if
Measure PS is not available that the designation “Measure S” be assigned.

SECTION 3. That the complete text of the proposed ordinance submitted to the
voters is attached as Exhibit “A” to this resolution.

SECTION 4. The ballots to be used at the election shall be in form and content
as required by law.

SECTION 5. The City Council hereby directs the City Clerk to transmit a copy
of the measure to the City Attorney. The City Attorney shall cause to be prepared an
impartial analysis of the measure showing the effect of the measure on the existing law
and the operation of the measure. The impartial analysis shall be filed by the date set
by the Registrar for the filing of the primary arguments.

SECTION 6. Direct Arguments In Support and In Opposition to Measure: As
authorized under Elections Code Section 9282(b), the City Council reserves the right to
file a written argument in favor of this Measure or authorize any member or members of
the City Council to do the same. Pursuant to Elections Code Section 9282(b) written
arguments for or against the Measure may also be submitted by any individual voter

Resolution No. 16-36
Page 4 of 6

who is eligible to vote on the Measure; any bona fide association of citizens; any
combination of voters and associations or such other persons or entities as may be
authorized under Elections Code Section 9282(b). The foregoing notwithstanding, if
more than one set of arguments “in favor of” or “in opposition to” the Measure is timely
submitted to the City Clerk , the City Clerk shall select only one argument for and one
argument against in accordance with the selection priority set forth under Elections
Code Section 9287. That priority gives preference as follows: (a) The City Council or
City Council-authorized members of the City Council; (b) The individual voter, or bona
fide association of citizens, or combination of voters and associations, who are the
bona fide association of citizens, or combination of voters and associations, who are
the bona fide sponsors or proponents of the measure; (c) A bona fide association of
citizens; then (d) Individual voters who are eligible to vote on the measure. Pursuant to
Elections Code Section 9283, a ballot argument will not be accepted unless
accompanied by the printed name and signature or printed names and signatures of
the author or authors submitting the argument, or if submitted on behalf of an
organization, the name of the organization and the printed name and signature of at
least one of its principal officers who is the author of the argument. Pursuant to
Elections Code Section 9283, no more than five (5) signatures shall appear with any
argument submitted and if any argument is signed by more than five authors, the
signatures of the first five shall be printed but not the signatures in excess of the first
five. Ballot arguments in support of or in opposition to the Measure may not exceed
300 words in length. Consistent with Elections Code Section 9287(b), ballot arguments
in favor of or in opposition to the Measure must be submitted to and received by the
City Clerk by or before 4:00 p.m. on Friday, December 16, 2016. Arguments that are
received by the City Clerk after this deadline will not be accepted. The City Clerk’s
Office is located at Cudahy City Hall, 5220 Santa Ana Street, Cudahy, California
90201.

SECTION 7. Rebuttals to Direct Arguments: Pursuant to Elections Code Section
9285, when the City Clerk receives an argument to the Measure that will be printed in
the ballot pamphlet, the elections official shall send a copy of the argument in favor of
the Measure to the authors of any argument against the Measure and a copy of the
argument against the Measure to the authors of the argument in favor of the measure.
To the extent permitted under Elections Code Section 9285(a)(2), the author or a
majority of the authors of an argument (either in favor of or in opposition to) may
prepare and submit a rebuttal argument or may authorize in writing any other person or
person to prepare, submit or sign the rebuttal argument. No rebuttal argument may
exceed 250 words in length. Pursuant to Elections Code Section 9285(a)(5), a rebuttal
argument relating to the Measure may not be signed by more than five persons and
shall be printed in the same manner as a direct argument and shall immediately follow
the direct argument which it seeks to rebut. Consistent Elections Code Sections 9285
and 9287(b), rebuttal arguments must be submitted to and received by the City Clerk
by or before 4:00 pm on Tuesday, December 27, 2016. Rebuttals that are received by
the City Clerk after this deadline will not be accepted. Again, the City Clerk’s Office is
located at Cudahy City Hall, 5220 Santa Ana Street, Cudahy, California 90201.

Resolution No. 16-36
Page 5 of 6

SECTION 8. The City Council directs the City Clerk to transmit a copy of the
Measure to the City Attorney. The City Attorney shall prepare an impartial analysis of
the Measure showing the effect of the Measure on existing law and the operation of the
Measure. The impartial analysis shall be filed by December 12, 2016, with the City
Clerk for the filing of direct arguments in favor of or in opposition to the Measure.

SECTION 9. The City of Cudahy shall reimburse the Registrar for any additional
costs attributable to the inclusion of the Measure as part of the City’s General Municipal
Election which the County Registrar with the administration of the City March 7, 2017
General Municipal Election.

SECTION 10. This Resolution shall take effect immediately upon its
adoption by the City Council and the City Clerk shall certify to the passage and
adoption of this Resolution and enter it into the book of original Resolutions.

SECTION 11. The City Clerk shall forward without delay, a copy of said
resolution to the Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors, the Registrar and to the
City Clerk of the City of Los Angeles.

PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED bv the Citv Council of the Citv of
Cudahy at its regular meeting on this14th day of N<

Baru Sanchez
Mayor

ATTEST:

Resolution No. 16-36
Page 6 of 6

CERTIFICATION

STATE OF CALIFORNIA	)

COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES	)	SS:

CITY OF CUDAHY	)

I, Richard Iglesias, Deputy City Clerk of the City of Cudahy, hereby certify that the
foregoing Resolution No. 16-36 was passed and adopted by the City Council of the City
of Cudahy, signed by the Mayor and attested by the Deputy City Clerk at a regular
meeting of said Council held on the 14th November, 2016, and that said Resolution was
adopted by the following vote, to-wit:

AYES:	Garcia, Markovich, Hernandez, Sanchez

NOES:	Guerrero

ABSENT:	None

ABSTAIN:	None