FILED

AUG 21 2017

CITY OF VICTORVILLE	-O'

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS - MEASuS^g^f^Qp^DEPUTY

Measure K asks voters to approve an ordinance enacting a one half-cent (0.5%) special transactions and
use (sales) tax within the City of Victorville. This special tax is restricted to funding public safety services
in Victorville in accordance with an expenditure plan that includes the addition of 10 new police officers
and 15 new firefighters/paramedics to the City’s forces; opening Fire Station 315 near Sunset Ridge Park;
equipment, training and support for these additional personnel; and acquiring life-safety apparatus for fire
services. The tax revenues (an estimated $8.5 million per year) will supplement, not replace, existing City
public safety services expenditures as reflected in Victorville’s FY 2017/2018 budget, and cannot lawfully
be used for any other purpose.

Currently, State and local retail sales tax in Victorville is 7.75% of the purchase price; but Victorville only
receives 1% of this amount. The remainder goes to the State and the San Bernardino County
Transportation Authority. Measure K would increase the current total sales tax rate in Victorville from
7.75 to 8.25%, i. e., would add a half cent to the price of an item that costs a dollar. If adopted, collection
of the tax is expected to commence April 1,2018.

Technically, the existing sales tax is a combination of “sales and use tax” and “transactions and use tax.”
Retailers collect both taxes at the time of sale and remit the funds to the California Department of Tax and
Fee Administration, which administers the taxes. Both are levied on the retail sale or use of personal
property, with certain exceptions.

The special tax will be collected where the sale is made in Victorville or where the goods are delivered
and placed into use in Victorville. Merchandise purchased in a “walk-in” retail store is assumed by the
State to be used within the city in which the store is located and the applicable tax will be paid by both
residents and nonresidents, unless the retailer is asked to ship the merchandise outside the city as part of
the sale or it is a motor vehicle (which is taxed based on the city of registered use). Certain necessities of
life, including purchases of food or medicine, are exempt from the tax.

Measure K requires annual City Council review and re-adoption of an expenditure plan consistent with
the ordinance’s mandate, as well as annual verification by the City’s independent auditor to ensure the tax
revenues are being used for the specified public safety purposes. The separate fund or account established
for deposit of the tax revenues is further subject to annual audit and reporting in the City’s financial
statement.

Measure K was placed on the ballot by a 2/3 vote of the Victorville City Council. A “Yes” vote is a vote
to approve the additional half cent tax for public safety services in Victorville. A “No” vote is a vote
against the tax. Measure K will be approved if it receives a two-thirds (2/3) majority of “Yes” votes.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure K. If you desire a copy of the Measure
(Ordinance No. 2371), please call the election official’s office at (760) 955-5188 and a copy will be
mailed, emailed, or provided at no cost to you.

August 21, 2017

Andre de Bortnowsky, City Attorney

EXHIBIT “A”

CITY OF VICTORVILLE ORDINANCE NO. 2371
NOT OPERATIVE UNTIL ENACTED BY VOTERS

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF VICTORVILLE, CALIFORNIA,
ADDING CHAPTER 3.06 TO TITLE 3 OF THE VICTORVILLE
MUNICIPAL CODE FOR THE PURPOSE OF ESTABLISHING AND
IMPOSING A SPECIAL TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX FOR PUBLIC
SAFETY SERVICES TO BE ADMINISTERED BY THE CALIFORNIA
DEPARTMENT OF TAX AND FEE ADMINISTRATION

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF VICTORVILLE DO ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. CHAPTER 3.06 SHALL BE ADDED TO TITLE 3 OF THE

VICTORVILLE MUNICIPAL CODE TO READ AS FOLLOWS:

Chapter 3.06
Special Public Safety Transactions and Use Tax

3.06.010-Title.

The ordinance codified in this chapter shall be known as the “City of Victorville Special
Public Safety Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance.” The City of Victorville hereinafter shall be
referred to as the “City.” This ordinance shall be applicable in the incorporated territory of the
City.

3.06.020 - Operative Date.

“Operative date” means the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing more than
110 days after the adoption of this ordinance, the date of such adoption being as set forth below.

3.06.030 - Purpose.

This ordinance is adopted to achieve the following, among other purposes, and the City
Council directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish those purposes:

(a)	To enhance public safety within the City;

(b)	To ensure sustainability of funding available to support cost increases associated
with current police, fire and emergency medical service levels;

Page 10

(c)	To irrevocably dedicate the proceeds from the tax created by this ordinance
exclusively to law enforcement (police), fire protection, fire suppression, and emergency medical
equipment, programs, facilities, personnel and services within the City;

(d)	To impose a retail transactions and use tax ordinance in compliance with the
provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code and Section 7285.91 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code,
which authorizes the City to adopt this tax ordinance which shall be operative if two-thirds (2/3)
of the electors voting on the measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax at an election
called for that purpose;

(e)	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates provisions
identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California insofar as those
provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code;

(f)	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax and
provides a measure therefore that can be administered and collected by the California
Department of Tax and Fee Administration in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable
to, and requires the least possible deviation from, the existing statutory and administrative
procedures followed by the California Department of Tax and Fee Administration in
administering and collecting the California State Sales and Use Taxes; and

(g)	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be administered in a
manner that will be, to the greatest degree possible, consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting the City
transactions and use taxes, and at the same time minimize the burden of record-keeping upon
persons subject to taxation under the provisions of this ordinance.

3.06.040 - Contract with State.

Prior to the operative date of this ordinance, the City shall contract with the California
Department of Tax and Fee Administration to perform all functions incident to the
administration and operation of this transactions and use tax ordinance; provided, that if the City
has not contracted with the California Department of Tax and Fee Administration prior to the
operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract, and in such a case the operative date shall be the
first day of the first calendar quarter following the execution of such a contract.

3.06.050 - Transactions Tax Rate.

•For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed
upon all retailers in the incorporated territory of the City at the rate of one-half percent (0.5%) of
the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible property sold at retail in said
territory on and after the operative date of this ordinance.

Page 11

For the purposes of this ordinance, all retail sales are consummated at the place of
business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is delivered by the retailer or
his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state
destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery charges, when such charges
are subject to the state sales and use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is made. In the
event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the State or has more than one place of
business, the place or places at which the retail sales are consummated shall be determined under
rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the California Department of Tax and Fee
Administration.

3.06.070-Use Tax Rate.

An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other consumption in the City of
tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on and after the operative date of this
ordinance for storage, use or other consumption in said territory at the rate of one-half percent
(0.5%) of the sales price of the property. The sales price shall include delivery charges when
such charges are subject to state sales or use tax regardless of the place to which delivery is
made.

3,06.080 - Adoption of Provisions of State Law.

Except as otherwise provided in this ordinance and except insofar as they are inconsistent
with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the
provisions of Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code are hereby adopted and made a part of this ordinance as though fully set forth herein.

3.06.090 - Limitations on Adoption of State Law and Collection of Use Taxes.

In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code:

(a)	Whenever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the
name of this City shall be substituted therefore. The substitution, however, shall not be made
when:

(1)	The word "State" is used as part of the title of the State Controller, State
Treasurer, California Department of Tax and Fee Administration, State Treasury, or the
Constitution of the State of California;

(2)	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or
against the City or any agency, officer, or employee thereof, rather than by or against the
California Department of Tax and Fee Administration, in performing the functions
incident to the administration or operation of this ordinance;

Page 12

(3)	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to, sections
referring to the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the result of the
substitution would be to:

i.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales,
storage, use, or other consumption of tangible personal property which would not
otherwise be exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other
consumption remain subject to tax by the State under the provisions of Part 1 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code; or

ii.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use, or other
consumption of tangible personal property which would not be subject to tax by
the state under said provisions of that code.

(4)	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711, 6715,
6737, 6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

(b)	The word “City” shall be substituted for the word “State” in the phrase "retailer
engaged in business in this State" in Section 6203 and in the definition of that phrase in
Section 6203.

3.06.100 - Permit Not Required.

If a seller's permit has been issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, an additional transactor’s permit shall not be required by this ordinance.

3.06.110 - Exclusions and Exemptions.

(a)	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the use tax
the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or by any city, city and
county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the
amount of any state-administered transactions or use tax.

(b)	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax the
gross receipts from:

(1)	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum products,
to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the county in which
the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common
carriers of persons or property under the authority of the laws of this State, the United
States, or any foreign government.

(2)	Sales of property to be used outside the City which is shipped to a point
outside the City, pursuant to the contract of sale, buy delivery to such point by the retailer
or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at such

Page 13

point. For purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point outside the City shall be
satisfied:

i.	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject
to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division
3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the
Public Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5
(commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration to an out-of-
City address and by a declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer,
stating that such address is, in fact, his or her principal place of residence; and

ii.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of
business out-of-City and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the
buyer, that the vehicle will be operated from that address.

(3)	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to furnish
the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date
of this ordinance

(4)	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such
property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the property for
an amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

(5)	For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4) of this section, the sale or lease
of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or
lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the
unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such
right is exercised.

(c)	There are exempted from the use tax levied by this ordinance, the storage, use or
other consumption in this City of tangible personal property:

(1)	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a
transactions tax under any state-administered transactions and use tax ordinance.

(2)	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of aircraft
and used or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the use of such
aircraft as common carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under a
certificate of public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this State,
the United States, or any foreign government. This exemption is in addition to the
exemptions provided in Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of
the State of California.

(3)	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price
pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

Page 14

(4)	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the
tangible personal property arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such
property for any period of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the property for
an amount fixed by a lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

(5)	For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4) of this section, storage, use, or
other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power over, tangible
personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for
any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right
to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

(6)	Except as provided in subsection (7), a retailer engaged in business in the
City shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible personal
property, unless the retailer ships or delivers the property into the City or participates
within the City in making the sale of the property, including, but not limited to, soliciting
or receiving the order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer in
the City or through any representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in
the City under the authority of the retailer.

(7)	“A retailer engaged in business in the City” shall also include any retailer
of any of the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1
(commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in
compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels
registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That
retailer shall be required to collect use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses
the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the City.

(d)	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit against that tax any
transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district imposing, or retailer
liable for, a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code
with respect to the sale to the person of the property the storage, use or other consumption of
which is subject to the use tax.

3.06.120 - Amendments.

(a)	All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this ordinance to Part 1 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to the sales and use taxes and which are
not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and
all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall
automatically become a part of this ordinance, provided however, that no such amendment shall
operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this ordinance.

(b)	Except for amendments that would: (i) increase the tax rate or revise the
methodology for calculating the tax such that a tax increase would result; (ii) impose the tax on
transactions and uses not previously subject to the tax (unless the amendment occurs pursuant to
Section 3.06.120(a)); or .(iii) change the purposes and/or uses for which the tax is collected, the

Page 15

City Council may amend this ordinance or the Expenditure Plan (in the manner set forth in
Section 3.06.150 hereof) without submitting the amendment to the voters for approval.

3.06.130 - Enjoining Collection Forbidden.

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any
suit, action, or proceeding in any court against the State or this City, or against any officer of the
State or this City, to prevent or enjoin the collection under this ordinance, or Part 1.6 of Division
2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.

3.06.140 - Refunds and Credits, Suits and Legal Proceedings

(a)	Refunds of and credits for any tax paid pursuant to this ordinance may be made
only as provided in Part i (commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code.

(b)	Suits and proceedings for the recovery of any amount alleged to have been
erroneously or illegally determined or collected pursuant to this ordinance may be maintained in
any court only as provided for in Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code. A judgment shall not be rendered in favor of the plaintiff in any
action brought against the Board of Equalization to recover any amount paid when the action is
brought by or in the name of an assignee of the person paying the amount or by any person other
than the person who paid the amount.

3.06.150 - Expenditure Plan; Use of Proceeds

(a)	All proceeds of the special tax imposed by this ordinance shall be accounted for
and paid into a special fund or account designated for use by the City only for the public safety
purposes outlined herein and set forth in the Expenditure Plan, attached to this ordinance as
Exhibit 1, and made a part hereof as though fully set forth herein.

(b)	The Expenditure Plan shall be reviewed and re-adopted as part of the City’s
normal annual budget process, and may be amended by resolution from time to time as necessary
by a majority vote of the City Council, as long as the funds continue to be utilized for the public
safety purposes outlined herein.

(c)	No revenues collected pursuant to the tax levied by this ordinance may be spent
on General Fund operating expenses in effect at the time this ordinance becomes effective, or
uses that are not part of the annual Expenditure Plan. Revenues collected by this ordinance shall
supplement, rather than replace, existing City expenditures for public safety service levels as
reflected in the FY 2017/2018 budget.

3.06.160 - Annual Audit

The City’s independent auditor will perform an annual verification to assure that the revenue
from the special tax imposed by this ordinance is being used for intended purposes. The special

Page 16

fund or account established for the proceeds of the special tax shall also be subject to the annual
audit performed by the City’s independent auditor of its books, records, accounts and fiscal
procedures and which is reported in the City’s Comprehensive Annual Financial Report.

SECTION 2. CEQA

The adoption of this ordinance is not a “project” subject to the requirements of the California
Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) (Public Resources Code Section 21000 et seq.). CEQA
Guideline 15378(b)(4) provides that the creation of government funding mechanisms or other
government fiscal activities that do not involve any commitment to a specific project that may
result in a potentially significant physical impact on the environment are not projects subject to
the requirements of CEQA.

SECTION 3. SEVERABILITY

If any part or provision of this ordinance or the application thereof to any person or circumstance
is held invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remainder of the ordinance, including the
application of such part or provision to other persons or circumstances, shall not be affected by
such a holding and shall continue in full force and effect. To this end, the provisions of this
ordinance are severable and the City Council hereby declares that they would have adopted each
and every provision of this ordinance regardless of the invalidity of any other provision.

SECTION 4, ELECTION REQUIRED; EFFECTIVE DATE

This ordinance relates to the levying and collecting of a special City transactions and use tax, and
shall take effect immediately upon approval of the voters at the Special Municipal Election to be
held on November 7, 2017. If approved by two-thirds (2/3) of the electors voting on the measure
in said election, this ordinance shall be considered adopted upon the date that the election results
are declared by the City Council and a resolution certifying the same is duly adopted by the City
Council.

SECTION 5. CERTIFICATION AND PUBLICATION

The City Clerk shall certify to the adoption of this ordinance by the voters, cause it to be
published as required by law, and forward a copy of the adopted ordinance to the California
Department of Tax and Fee Administration.

Page 17



THE FOREGOING ORDINANCE NO. 2371 WAS APPROVED BY A TWO-THIRDS (2/3)

VOTE OF THE CITY COUNCIL ON____________,	AND	WAS	SUBMITTED TO THE

VOTERS OF THE CITY OF VICTORVILLE AT THE NOVEMBER 7, 2017 SPECIAL
MUNICIPAL ELECTION AND APPROVED BY THE FOLLOWING VOTE:

YES:_______

NO:________

Ordinance No. 2371 was approved by the voters at the November 7, 2017 special municipal

election and was thereby considered adopted and effective on___________,	2017,	the	date

on which the City Council at a regular meeting adopted a resolution declaring the results of said
election by the following vote:

AYES:

NOES:

I HEREBY CERTIFY that the foregoing is a true and correct copy of an ordinance duly and
regularly adopted by the People of the City of Victorville, California.

Carolee Bates, City Clerk

Page 18

Exhibit 1

Special Public Safety Transactions and Use Tax
Expenditure Plan

The one-half percent (0.5%) Special Public Safety Transactions and Use Tax is estimated to
generate $8,471,157 annually based on forecasted sales tax revenue for Fiscal Year 2017/2018,
excluding potential one-time revenue from construction or business-to-business activity. Annual
tax proceeds will vary based upon the operative date in year one, and actual economic activity
occurring within the incorporated territory of the City.

The City Council has dedicated the use of proceeds from the Special Public Safety Transactions
and Use Tax exclusively in support of maintaining and enhancing law enforcement (police), fire
protection, fire suppression, and emergency medical equipment, programs, facilities, personnel
and services within the City of Victorville.

The City Council is committed to utilizing Special Public Safety Transactions and Use Tax
proceeds for one-time and ongoing annual expenses associated with the following:

Law Enforcement (Police)

•	Minimum of 10 additional sworn deputies;

•	Equipment, training and support for additional deputy positions; and

•	Future cost increases associated with current and increased service levels.

Fire Protection, Suppression and Emergency Medical Response

•	Minimum of 15 additional sworn firefighter/paramedic personnel;

•	• Equipment, training and support for additional firefighter/paramedic positions;

•	Opening Fire Station 315;

•	Establishing one additional paramedic squad;

•	Apparatus for Fire Station 315 and the additional paramedic squad;

•	Future cost increases associated with current and increased service levels; and

•	Development of a schedule and funding for the replacement of aging fire apparatus.

Note: New positions outlined above would be in addition to budgeted positions associated
with current service levels as approved in the Fiscal Year 2017/2018 budget.

Any tax proceeds not utilized during a particular fiscal year, or received in excess of the cost
requirements to support the expenditures outlined above, shall be reserved in a special fund or
account for exclusive use in support of public safety services, and will remain eligible for
expenditures outlined above.

Page 19

FILED

AUG 0 9 2017

"1? J	nPPi

RESOLUTION NO. 17-051	BY REGISTRAR OFVOTERS

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
VICTORVILLE, CALIFORNIA, ORDERING SUBMISSION TO THE
QUALIFIED ELECTORS OF THE CITY A BALLOT MEASURE TO
APPROVE AN ORDINANCE IMPOSING A SPECIAL PUBLIC SAFETY
SERVICES TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX; CALLING AND GIVING
NOTICE OF THE HOLDING OF A SPECIAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION;
REQUESTING THE SAN BERNARDINO COUNTY BOARD OF
SUPERVISORS PERMIT THE ELECTIONS OFFICE OF THE
REGISTRAR OF VOTERS TO CONDUCT SAID ELECTION WITH THE
ESTABLISHED CONSOLIDATED ELECTION TO BE HELD ON
NOVEMBER 7, 2017; APPROVING ORDINANCE NO. 2371 ADDING
CHAPTER 3.06 TO TITLE 3 OF THE VICTORVILLE MUNICIPAL
CODE ESTABLISHING AND IMPOSING A SPECIAL ONE-HALF
PERCENT (0.5%) TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX FOR PUBLIC
SAFETY SERVICES IF APPROVED BY THE VOTERS; SETTING THE
DATE AFTER WHICH NO ARGUMENTS FOR OR AGAINST THE
MEASURE MAY BE SUBMITTED TO THE CITY CLERK; AND
DIRECTING THE CITY ATTORNEY TO PREPARE AN IMPARTIAL
ANALYSIS OF THE MEASURE

WHEREAS, the City of Victorville seeks to provide a safe community where its
residents and businesses can thrive; and

WHEREAS, despite significant cuts to other General Fund areas and the use of reserves
to preserve public safety levels during the Great Recession, the City has been increasingly
challenged to maintain and enhance public safety service levels, and the collective cost of
existing service levels have continued to increase at a much steeper pace compared to General
Fund tax revenue recovery out of the recessionary cycle; and

WHEREAS, public safety concerns regarding the local effect of criminal justice reform
for early release of non-violent offenders under Propositions 47, 57 and Assembly Bill 109 have
been voiced by the community, and the San Bernardino County Sheriffs Department recently
reported an increase in violent crime of 20 percent overall in the High Desert area for the first
half of calendar year 2017, all of which places an additional burden on local law enforcement
resources and reinforces the City Council’s desire to add additional deputies to the City’s
contract with the San Bernardino County Sheriffs Department; and

WHEREAS, a recent study regarding fire service options revealed that incident volumes
are exceeding current resources, mostly due to the increase in calls for medical aid, and the
City’s inability to fully fund current and long-term fire service needs with existing General Fund
revenues, including replacement of aging fire apparatus and, at a minimum, staffing/opening Fire
Station 315 (constructed in 2008) and adding a second paramedic squad; and

Page 5

WHEREAS, the City previously eliminated non-sworn/non-safety positions from its
contract with the San Bernardino County Fire Protection District and shifted those functions to
existing City staff as a means of controlling costs; and

WHEREAS, City Council workshops were held on January 10 and June 6, 2017, to
discuss various matters related to fire services, and the City’s efforts are ongoing to evaluate the
various fire service models for potential efficiencies and cost savings; and

WHEREAS, a City Council workshop was held on February 15, 2017, to discuss
available tax and assessment options to supplement funding for public safety services, and
further discussion on options available for a special tax measure for public safety on the
November 2017 ballot took place during a special City Council meeting held on July 11, 2017;
and

WHEREAS, at its regular meeting held on August 1, 2017, the City Council considered
a staff report, public testimony and deliberated on the matter of submitting a ballot measure to
the voters concerning a special Transactions and Use Tax for public safety purposes; and

WHEREAS, the proposed special tax will be used exclusively for law enforcement
(police), fire protection, fire suppression, and emergency medical equipment, programs,
facilities, personnel and services (hereinafter “Public Safety Services”); and

WHEREAS, pursuant to California Revenue and Tax Code section 7251 et seq. and
7258.9 et seq., the City Council desires to submit to the voters of the City of Victorville at a
Special Municipal Election to be held on November 7, 2017, a proposed ordinance to add
Chapter 3.06 to the Victorville Municipal Code to impose a special Transactions and Use Tax
that, if approved, would be imposed at a rate of one-half percent (0.5%), or one-half cent
($0,005) per dollar, on retail sales in the City and would be collected by the California
Department of Tax and Fee Administration and remitted to the City; and

WHEREAS, the proposed special tax is a special purpose public safety measure that
requires by law that all measure funds are spent on Public Safety Services and cannot be
redirected or taken by the City Council for other uses; and

WHEREAS, Article XIIIC, Section 2(d) of the California Constitution precludes
imposition of any special tax unless that tax is submitted to the electorate and approved by a two-
thirds (2/3) vote; and

WHEREAS, it is desirable that the Special Municipal Election be conducted with the
established Consolidated Election to be held on November 7, 2017.

NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF VICTORVILLE
DOES HEREBY RESOLVE, DETERMINE AND ORDER AS FOLLOWS:

Page 6

Section L

That the foregoing recitals are true and correct.

Section 2. That the City Council of the City of Victorville does hereby call and give notice
of a Special Municipal Election to be held on November 7, 2017, within the jurisdictional
boundaries of the City.

Section 3. That pursuant to California Elections Code Section 9222, the City Council does
hereby determine that there shall be and there is hereby ordered submitted to the qualified
electors of the City at the Special Municipal Election the following question:

VICTORVILLE PUBLIC SAFETY

CITY MEASURE “_______SERVICES SPECIAL

TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX

To address crime issues, respond quickly to fires and medical

emergencies, and make Victorville safer by adding 10 new police YES _______

and 15 new firefighter/paramedics, shall Ordinance No. 2371 be

adopted to impose a one-half percent (0.5%) transactions and use NO _______

(“sales”) tax, estimated to raise $8.5 million annually, with all
funds restricted to use on public safety services within
Victorville?

Section 4. That the proposed Transactions and Use Tax is a special tax imposed under the
authority of California Revenue and Tax Code Section 7285.91 and requires the approval of a
two-thirds (2/3) majority of the qualified electors of the City casting votes in the Special
Municipal Election.

Section 5. That this resolution, including the submission to the voters of proposed Ordinance
No. 2371 establishing the special Transactions and Use Tax (attached hereto as Exhibit A and
incorporated by this reference), must also be approved by a two-thirds (2/3) vote of all members
of the City Council in accordance with California Revenue and Tax Code Section 7285.91.

Section 6. That by adopting this resolution, the City Council hereby approves the attached
Ordinance No. 2371, the form thereof, and the submission of said ordinance to the voters of the
City at the November 7, 2017, Special Municipal Election, such ordinance to become effective
immediately upon the approval of a two-thirds (2/3) majority of the voters voting on the measure
in the election called by the adoption of this resolution.

Section 7. That Ordinance No. 2371, if subsequently approved by the voters, will establish
Chapter 3.06 of the Victorville Municipal Code to impose a special Transactions and Use Tax of
one-half percent (0.5%) for exclusive use on Public Safety Services, as heretofore defined, and
for no other purpose, to be deposited into a special City fund or account and allocated only for
those specific purposes, and that can be administered and collected by the California Department
of Tax and Fee Administration in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and
requires the least possible deviation from, the existing statutory and administrative procedures
followed by the California Department of Tax and Fee Administration in administering and
collecting the California State Sales and Use Taxes.

Page 7

Section 8. That any and all members of the Victorville City Council, any individual voter
who is eligible to vote on the measure, or a bona fide association of citizens, or any combination
of voters associations, are authorized to file written arguments regarding the City measure as
specified above, accompanied by the printed name(s) and signature(s) of the author(s) submitting
said arguments, in accordance with Article 4, Chapter 3, Division 9 of the Elections Code of the
State of California, and are authorized to change such arguments up until and including August
24, 2017, the date established by the San Bernardino County Elections Office of the Registrar of
Voters, after which no arguments for or against the City measure may be submitted to the City
Clerk.

Section 9.	That pursuant to Section 9280 of the Elections Code of the State of California, the

City Council directs the City Clerk to transmit a copy of the ballot measure to the Victorville
City Attorney. The City Attorney shall prepare an impartial analysis of the ballot measure, not to
exceed five hundred (500) words in length, showing the effect of the measure on existing law
and the operation of the measure. The impartial analysis shall be filed by August 21, 2017, the
date set by the San Bernardino County Elections Office of the Registrar of Voters for the filing
of primary arguments.

Section 10. That pursuant to the requirements of Section 10403 of the Elections Code of the
State of California, the Board of Supervisors of the County of San Bernardino is hereby
requested to consent and agree to consolidation of the Special Municipal Election with the
Consolidated Election to be held on November 7, 2017.

Section 11. That the San Bernardino County Board of Supervisors is hereby requested to issue
instructions to the Elections Office of the Registrar of Voters to take any and all steps necessary
for the holding of the consolidated election.

Section 12. That the City of Victorville recognizes that additional costs will be incurred by
the County of San Bernardino by reason of this consolidation and agrees to reimburse the County
for any such costs.

Section 13, That the City Clerk is authorized, instructed and directed to coordinate with the
San Bernardino County Elections Office of the Registrar of Voters to procure and furnish any
and all official ballots, notices, printed matter and all supplies, equipment and paraphernalia that
may be necessary in order to properly and lawfully conduct the election.

Section 14, That the polls for the election shall be open at seven o’clock a.m. on the day of
the election and shall remain open continuously from that time until eight o’clock p.m. on the
same day when the polls shall be closed, except as provided in Section 14401 of the Elections
Code of the State of California.

Section 15. That in all particulars not recited in this resolution, the election shall be conducted
as provided by law to be used at such election.

Page 8

Section 16. That notice of the time and place of holding the election is given and the City
Clerk is authorized, instructed and directed to give further or additional notice of the election in
time, form and manner as required by law.

Section 17. That the City Clerk shall certify to the passage and adoption of this resolution,
enter it into the book of original resolutions, and is hereby directed to file a certified copy of this
resolution with the San Bernardino County Board of Supervisors and Elections Office of the
Registrar of Voters.

Section 18. That the City Clerk and City Attorney are hereby authorized to make any
typographical, clerical, non-substantive corrections to this resolution as may be deemed
necessary by the San Bernardino County Clerk and/or the Elections Office of the Registrar of
Voters.

Section 19. That this resolution shall become effective immediately upon its passage by a two-
thirds (2/3) vote of the City Council.

Page 9

Resolution No. 17-051

PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED this 1st day of AUGUST 2017.



MAYOR OF THE CITY OF VICTORVILLE

ATTEST: ,

CITY CLERK

APPROVED AS-TO FOfiifi:
JXU ATTORNEY

I, CAROLEE BATES, City Clerk of the City of Victorville and ex-officio Clerk to the City
Council of said City, DO HEREBY CERTIFY that the foregoing is a true and correct copy
of Resolution No. 17-051 which was adopted at a meeting held on the 1st day of August
2017, by the following roll call vote, to wit:

AYES:	Councilmembers Garcia, Cox, Gomez, and Kennedy

NOES:	NONE

ABSENT:	NONE

ABSTAIN:	Councilmember Negrete

CITY CLERK

FILED

AUG 34 2017

BY- _3L_ - DEPUTY

Argument in Favor of Measure K	REGISTRAR	OF	VOTERS

With rising crime rates and a growing population, Victorville's need for public safety is greater than ever
before. The city has been unable to keep pace with the rising costs of providing fire and police services for
Victorville residents and our many visitors.	m

Approving Measure K would help fund public safety with no property tax increases. The proposed A cent sales
tax equals only fifty cents per every $100 of purchases. The tax would also be shared by visitors when they
stop for gas or shop in Victorville.

Despite years of trimming spending for non-safety services, cutting jobs, layoffs and trimming employee
salaries; this tax is needed to help us increase and sustain safety services for our growing population.

A YES vote on Measure l< will require non-resident visitors to share costs, maintain local control of public safety
and fully-fund Victorville fire and police service needs.

Measure K is currently estimated to raise $8.5 million per year, which would be used to:

-Hire 10 additional police officers;

-Hire 15 firefighters/paramedics;

-Open Fire Station 315 near Sunset Ridge Park; and

-Add a second paramedic squad to respond to increasing calls for medical aid.

Funds raised through Measure K would be restricted so they could only be used for public safety and couldn't
be diverted for any other purpose.

Without approval of Measure K, the City Council will have to pursue alternate fire service options, such as
annexation to the County Fire Protection District; which would result in a parcel tax for Victorville property
owners.

Approving Measure K will maintain local control of public safety in Victorville, provide needed resources to
expand fire and police services, and ensure those using the service pay for it.

Protect our community. Vote YES on Measure K.

Gloria Garcia, Mayor
Jim Cox, Mayor Pro Tem

Jim Kennedy, Councilmember

Eric Negrete, Councilmember