WILMAR UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT
MEASURE F

To provide local funding which the State cannot take away,

Fkeep class sizes small, protect academic excellence, vocal
and instrumental music, arts, maintain counseling services,
provide current technology, and keep our library open, with
no funds spent on administrators’ salaries, and provide a senior
citizen exemption, shall Wilmar Union School District (Wilson
School) be authorized to levy $65 per parcel annually for eight (8)
years ($70,980 annual funds raised)?

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE F

The Wilmar Union School District Board of Trustees has called an election on a
special tax measure to fund identified educational purposes. State law authorizes
school districts to levy a special tax upon approval of two-thirds of the voting
electorate.

This measure proposes a special tax of $65 per year per parcel for each parcel of
land within the District’s boundaries. The tax would begin on July 1, 2018, and
would remain in effect for no more than eight (8) years. The tax would be collected
and administered in the same manner as regular ad valorem property taxes.

If Measure F is approved, the proceeds of the tax would be deposited in a special
fund and could only be used for the purposes set out in the full text of the measure.
The stated purposes of the special parcel tax are keeping class sizes small; pro-
tecting academic excellence; keeping vocal and instrumental music; maintaining
student counseling services; providing current technology for all students; and
keeping the school library open. No portion of the proceeds may be used to pay for
administrators’ salaries.

The proposed tax would apply to each parcel of taxable land in the District, with
some exemptions described below. Measure F defines “parcel” as any unit of
land in the District that receives a separate tax bill from the Sonoma County Tax
Collector. The tax would not apply to parcels that are exempt from property
taxes. Additionally, upon application to the District, an exemption shall be avail-
able to parcels owned by one or more persons who are aged 65 years or older
and own and occupy the parcel as a principal residence, or to persons who re-
ceive Supplemental Security Income for a disability, regardless of age, and own
and occupy the parcel as a principal residence.

The District’s chief fiscal officer would make an annual report to the District Board
of Trustees detailing the amount of revenue collected and expended under the
special tax and the status of any project funded by said tax revenue.

If two-thirds of the voters in the Wilmar Union School District who vote on this mea-
sure vote “yes,” the measure will pass and the special tax will be levied.

BRUCE D. GOLDSTEIN
County Counsel

By: si Robert Pittman

Assistant County Counsel

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE F

Having a quality school in your neighborhood, like Wilson Elementary (Wilmar
District), helps the students and improves the safety of the area. It also enhances
the value of your home. The funds from our previous parcel tax, which has recently
expired, provided enrichment similar to those proposed in this measure. Having
the parcel tax in place assures a strong and well-rounded education for all stu-
dents. Funds raised by this local tax will be used to provide direct support to Wilson
students and will protect and enhance their educational opportunities.

If passed, Measure F will provide funds that the State cannot take away and will
improve Wilson Elementary by: maintaining small class sizes; protecting academic
excellence; keeping Vocal and instrumental music and arts; maintaining student
counseling services; supporting current technology and supporting our library.

Measure F makes financial sense and protects taxpayers.

This measure will only cost each parcel $65 annually (less than $5.42 per month).

By law, all funds must be spent locally and cannot be taken by the State.

Measure F provides an exemption for any parcel owned and occupied by a person
65 years of age or older.

Spending will be reviewed and annual accounting will be provided.

This measure lasts for only 8 years.

Our children need your Yes vote on Measure F! If successful, Measure F will pro-
vide a stable source of local funds to offset the uncertainty of state funding. With
the kind of support provided by the funds from Measure F, our students can be-
come well rounded and responsible members of the Petaluma community.

Measure F maintains academic excellence, improves the educational experience
of local students, and maintains the quality of our community. Please vote Yes on
Measure F!

si John P. Praetzel	si Jane S. Singleton

Treasurer, Wilmar V. Fire Dept

si Michelle Machado	WILMAR DISTRICT BOARD

si Doug Hecker, President

s/AI Mello
Wilmar Vol Fire Dept.

NO ARGUMENT WAS SUBMITTED AGAINST MEASURE F

49-501

9385

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE F
EXHIBIT A

STATEMENT OF PURPOSES

To provide local revenue that cannot be taken by the State and to aid in
maintaining public education in our schools, the Wilmar Union School District
proposes to levy and collect a qualified special parcel tax as described below
(see “SPECIAL TAX AND PROCEDURES” below), and to implement accountabil-
ity measures in connection with the special parcel tax to provide oversight and
accountability to ensure that funds are used to:

•	To keep class sizes small;

•	Protect academic excellence;

•	Keep vocal and instrumental music;

•	Maintain student counseling services;

•	Provide current technology for all students;

•	Keep our library open.

The Board of Trustees will utilize parcel tax proceeds for the purposes listed
above, unless the Board of Trustees determines in any given year that changes in
student population, fiscal constraints, or other changes in state or federal funding
make doing so unfeasible or inadvisable. In any event, the Board of Trustees will
not fund any program or reduction other than those listed above from the proceeds
of the special parcel taxes.

SPECIAL TAX AND PROCEDURES

Special Tax Generally. Subject to two-thirds approval of the voters, the spe-
cial tax of $65 per parcel shall be levied and collected for a period of eight (8) years,
commencing July 1,2018, and be collected by the Sonoma County Tax Collector
at the same time as and along with, and shall be subject to the same penalties as
general ad valorem taxes collected by said tax collector.

Definition of Parcel. A parcel is defined as any unit of land in the District that
receives a separate tax bill from the Sonoma County Tax Collector. However, with
respect to any parcel that is classified by the Sonoma County Assessor as a
timeshare property, for the purposes of levying and collecting the special tax
against such parcels, to the extent permitted by law such levy shall be set in
amount proportional to the percentage of the year owned by said timeshare.

Exemptions. The following exemptions shall apply to the levy of the qualified
special tax.

•	Otherwise Exempt Property. All property that would otherwise be ex-
empt from property taxes shall also be exempt from the parcel tax.

•	Senior Citizen Exemption. An exemption shall be available to persons
who are 65 years or older and own and occupy as a principal residence a
parcel subject to the parcel tax.

•	Supplemental Security Income Exemption. An exemption shall be avail-
able to persons who receive Supplemental Security Income (“SSI”) for a
disability regardless of age, and own and occupy as a principal resi-
dence a parcel subject to the parcel tax.

Exclusive Procedures. The procedures described herein with respect to the
levy and collection of the special tax and exemptions, and any additional proce-
dures established by the Board of Trustees, shall be the exclusive claims proce-
dure for claimants seeking an exemption, refund, reduction, or re-computation of
the special parcel tax. Whether any particular claim is to be resolved by the District
or by the County shall be determined by the District, in coordination with the County
as necessary. The District’s Board of Trustees shall adopt such additional or sup-
plemental procedures as it deems necessary or convenient for the administration
of the qualified special tax.

ACCOUNTABILITY MEASURES

Legally Required Accountability Measures. In accordance with the re-
quirements of California Government Code sections 50075.1 and 50075.3, the fol-
lowing accountability measures, among others, shall apply to the special parcel
taxes levied in accordance with this Measure: (a) the specific purposes of the spe-
cial parcel tax shall be only those purposes identified above; (b) the proceeds of
the special parcel tax shall be applied only to those specific purposes identified
above; (c) a separate, special account shall be created into which the proceeds of
the special parcel taxes must be deposited; and (d) an annual written report shall
be made by the District’s chief fiscal officer to the Board of Trustees of the District
showing (i) the amount of funds collected and expended from the proceeds of the
special taxes and (ii) the status of any projects, programs, or purposes required or
authorized to be funded from the proceeds of the special taxes, as identified above.

PROTECTION OF FUNDING

Current law forbids any decrease in State or Federal funding to the District
because of the District’s adoption of a parcel tax. However, if any such funds are
reduced because of the adoption of this parcel tax, then the amount of the special
parcel taxes will be reduced annually as necessary in order to restore such State or
Federal funding.

SEVERABILITY

The Board of Trustees of the District hereby declares, and the voters by ap-
proving this measure concur, that every section, paragraph, sentence and clause
of this measure has independent value, and the Board of Trustees and the voters
would have adopted each provision hereof regardless of every other provision
hereof. Upon approval of this measure by the voters, should any part be found by a
court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, all remaining parts
hereof shall remain in full force and effect to the fullest extent allowed by law.

49-502

9385