RESOLUTION NO. 02-17-2681

n 1

l-.J _....

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY
OF CALIFORNIA CITY, CALIFORNIA CALLING A
SPECIAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION TO BE HELD ON
TUESDAY, JUNE 6, 2017 FOR THE PURPOSE OF
SUBMITTING A CANNABIS BUSINESS TAX MEASURE
TO THE VOTERS OF THE CITY; REQUESTING THE
ASSISTANCE OF THE COUNTY OF KERN IN
CONNECTION WITH THAT ELECTION; AND
REQUESTING CONSOLIDATION OF THAT ELECTION
WITH ANY OTHER ELECTION HELD ON THAT DATE

WHEREAS, Sections 37101 and 37100.5 of the California Government Code authorize
the City to levy a license tax, for revenue purposes, upon business transacted in the City; and

WHEREAS, as a result of recent voter-approved changes to state law, there has been a
very strong interest by cannabis businesses to open in the City; and

WHEREAS, cannabis businesses are likely to create demands upon City services, and
the City does not currently impose any taxes upon cannabis businesses, aside from generally
applicable municipal taxes;

WHEREAS, the City Council desires to seek impose a supplemental license tax upon
cannabis businesses, to be known as the “Cannabis Business Tax”; and

WHEREAS, the Cannabis Business Tax cannot be imposed without voter approval; and

WHEREAS, the Cannabis Business Tax, if adopted, would address the conditions
creating the fiscal emergency declared by the City Council in its Resolution No. 02-17-2680 and

WHEREAS, the City Council desires to submit a Cannabis Business Tax measure to the
voters of the City at a Special Municipal Election to be held on Tuesday, June 6, 2017 and to be
consolidated with any other election to be held on that date; and

WHEREAS, the proposed Cannabis Business Tax is more completely described in the
ordinance attached hereto as Attachment “A” and incorporated herein by reference (the “Tax
Ordinance”).

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OF CALIFORNIA CITY AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1. Recitals. The City Council hereby finds and determines that the foregoing
recitals are true and correct.

Section 2. Proposal. The City Council hereby proposes the Cannabis Business Tax.

Section 3. Election. The City Council hereby calls a Special Municipal Election for
Tuesday, June 6, 2017 (the “Election”) and orders, pursuant to Section 9222 of the Elections
Code, that the Tax Ordinance be submitted to the voters at that election.

Section 4. Ballot Question. The question submitted by Section 3 of this Resolutions
shall appear on the ballot as follows:

To fund general municipal expenses such as police, fire, urgent care,
roads and recreation, shall the City tax cannabis (marijuana) YES
businesses at annual rates not to exceed $7.00 per canopy square foot

for cultivation (adjustable for inflation) and not to exceed 6% of gross __________

receipts for all other cannabis businesses; which is expected to
generate an estimated $3.4 million annually and will be levied until NO
repealed by the voters or the City Council?

Section 5. Approval. Pursuant to Section 2(b) of Article XIII A of the Constitution, this
measure requires approval by a majority of those casting ballots on the measure.

Section 6. Consolidation. Pursuant Section 10400 et seq. of the Elections Code, the
Board of Supervisors of Kern County is requested to consolidate the Election with other
elections held on the same day in the same territory or in the territory that is in part the same.

Section 7. Canvass. The Board of Supervisors is authorized to canvass the returns of
the Election pursuant to Section 10411 of the Elections Code.

Section 8. Conduct of Election. Pursuant to Section 10002 of the Elections Code, the
Board of Supervisors is requested to permit the County Clerk to render all services specified by
Section 10418 of the Elections Code relating to the election, for which services the City agrees to
reimburse the County, in accordance with current County pro-rations and allocation procedures.

Section 9. Filing with County. The City Clerk shall file a certified copy of this
Resolution with the County Clerk.

Section 10. Analysis and Argument. The City Attorney shall prepare an impartial
analysis of the measure. Any person or persons may file an argument either for or against the
ballot measure. An argument for or against the measure shall not exceed 300 words in length. If
more than one argument is submitted for the measure, or more than one argument against the
measure, the City Clerk shall select the argument to be included with the ballot materials.
Rebuttal arguments shall be permitted pursuant to applicable law.

Section 11. Effective Date. This Resolution shall be effective immediately upon
adoption.

APPROVED and ADOPTED this 28th day of February, 2017.

ATTEST:

EXHIBIT A

ORDINANCE NO.____

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF CALIFORNIA CITY,
CALIFORNIA ADDING ARTICLE 8 (CANNABIS BUSINESS
TAX) TO CHAPTER 2 OF TITLE 3 OF THE CALIFORNIA
CITY MUNICIPAL CODE

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF CALIFORNIA CITY DO ORDAIN AS
FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. CODE AMENDMENT. Article 8 is added to Chapter 2 of Title 3 of the California
City Municipal Code to read as follows:

Article 8
CANNABIS BUSINESS TAX

Sections:

3-2.8.010

3-2.8.020

3-2.8.030

3-2.8.040

3-2.8.050

3-2.8.060

3-2.8.070

3-2.8.080

3-2.8.090

3-2.8.100

3-2.8.110

3-2.8.120

3-2.8.130

3-2.8.140

3-2.8.150

3-2.8.160

3-2.8.170

3-2.8.180

3-2.8.190

3-2.8.200

3-2.8.210

3-2.8.220

3-2.8.230

3-2.8.240

3-2.8.250

3-2.8.260

Title.

Authority and Puipose.

Intent.

Definitions.

Tax imposed.

Reporting and remittance of tax.

Payments and communications -timely remittance.
Payment - when taxes deemed delinquent.

Notice not required by City.

Penalties and interest.

Refunds and credits.

Refunds and procedures.

Personal cultivation not taxed.

Administration of the tax.

Appeal procedure.

Enforcement -action to collect.

Apportionment.

Constitutionality and legality.

Audit and examination of premises and records.

Other licenses, permits, taxes or charges.

Payment of tax does not authorize unlawful business.
Deficiency determinations.

Failure to report - nonpayment, fraud.

Tax assessment -notice requirements.

Tax assessment - hearing, application, and determination.
Conviction for violation - taxes not waived.

Cannabis Tax Ordinance
Prepared February 28. 2017
Page 1

3-2.8.270 Violation deemed misdemeanor.
3-2.8.280 Severability.

3-2.8.290 Remedies cumulative.

3-2.8.300 Amendment or repeal.

3-2.8.010	Title.

This ordinance shall be known as the Cannabis Business Tax Ordinance.

3-2.8.020	Authority	and	Purpose.

The purpose of this Ordinance is to adopt a tax, for revenue purposes, pursuant to
Sections 37101 and 37100.5 of the California Government Code, upon Cannabis Businesses that
engage in business in the City. The Cannabis Business Tax is levied based upon business gross
receipts and square footage of plant canopy. It is not a sales and use tax, a tax upon income, or a
tax upon real property.

The Cannabis Business Tax is a general tax enacted solely for general governmental
purposes of the City and not for specific purposes. All of the proceeds from the tax imposed by
this Article shall be placed in the City's general fund and be available for any legal municipal
purpose.

3-2.8.030	Intent.

The intent of this Ordinance is to levy a tax on all Cannabis Businesses that operate in the
City, regardless of whether such business would have been legal at the time this Ordinance was
adopted. Nothing in this Ordinance shall be interpreted to authorize or permit any business
activity that would not otherwise be legal or permissible under laws applicable to the activity at
the time the activity is undertaken.

3-2.8.040	Definitions.

The following words and phrases shall have the meanings set forth below when used in
this Article:

A.	“Business” shall include all activities engaged in or caused to be engaged in
within the City, including any commercial or industrial enterprise, trade, profession, occupation,
vocation, calling, or livelihood, whether or not carried on for gain or profit, but shall not include
the services rendered by an employee to his or her employer.

B.	“Cannabis” means all	parts of the plant Cannabis sativa Linnaeus, Cannabis

indica, or Cannabis ruderalis, whether growing or not; the seeds thereof; the resin, whether crude
or purified, extracted from any part of the plant; and every compound, manufacture, salt,
derivative, mixture, or preparation of the plant, its seeds, or resin. “Cannabis” also means the
separated resin, whether crude or purified, obtained from cannabis. “Cannabis” also means
marijuana as defined by Section 11018 of the California Health and Safety Code and is not

Cannabis Tax Ordinance
Prepared February 28, 2017
Page 2

limited to medical cannabis.

C.	“Cannabis product” means raw cannabis that has undergone a process whereby
the raw agricultural product has been transformed into a concentrate, an edible product, or a
topical product. “Cannabis product” also means marijuana products as defined by Section

11018.1 of the California Health and Safety Code and is not limited to medical cannabis
products.

D.	“Canopy” means all areas occupied by any portion of a cannabis plant whether
contiguous or noncontiguous on any one site. When plants occupy multiple horizontal planes (as
when plants are placed on shelving above other plants) each plane shall be counted as a separate
canopy area.

E.	“Cannabis business” means any business activity involving cannabis, including
but not limited to cultivating, transporting, distributing, manufacturing, compounding,
converting, processing, preparing, storing, packaging, delivering, testing, dispensing, retailing
and wholesaling of cannabis, of cannabis products or of ancillary products and accessories,
whether or not carried on for gain or profit.

F.	“Cannabis business tax” or “business tax,” means the tax due pursuant to this
Article for engaging in cannabis business in the City.

G.	“Commercial cannabis cultivation” means cultivation in the course of conducting
a cannabis business.

H.	“City permit” means a permit issued by the City to a person to authorize that
person to operate or engage in a cannabis business.

I.	“Cultivation” means any activity involving the planting, growing, harvesting,
drying, curing, grading, or trimming of cannabis and includes, but is not limited to, the operation
of a nursery.

J.	“Employee” means each and every person engaged in the operation or conduct of
any business, whether as owner, member of the owner's family, partner, associate, agent,
manager or solicitor, and each and every other person employed or working in such business for
a wage, salary, commission, barter or any other form of compensation.

K.	“Engaged in business as a cannabis business” means the commencing,
conducting, operating, managing or carrying on of a cannabis business, whether done as owner,
or by means of an officer, agent, manager, employee, or otherwise, whether operating from a
fixed location in the City or coming into the City from an outside location to engage in such
activities. A person shall be deemed engaged in business within the City if:

1.	Such person or person’s employee maintains a fixed place of business

within the City for the benefit or partial benefit of such person;

Cannabis Tax Ordinance
Prepared February 28, 2017
Page 3

2.	Such person or person’s employee owns or leases real property within the
City for business purposes;

3.	Such person or person’s employee regularly maintains a stock of tangible
personal property in the City for sale in the ordinary course of business;

4.	Such person or person’s employee regularly conducts solicitation of
business within the City; or

5.	Such person or person’s employee performs work or renders services in
the City.

The foregoing specified activities shall not be a limitation on the meaning of “engaged in

business.”

L.	“Evidence of doing business” means evidence such as, without limitation, use of
signs, circulars, cards or any other advertising media, including the use of internet or telephone
solicitation, or representation to a government agency or to the public that such person is
engaged in a cannabis business in the City.

M.	“Fiscal year” means July 1 through June 30 of the following calendar year.

N.	“Gross Receipts,” except as otherwise specifically provided, means, whether
designated a sales price, royalty, rent, commission, dividend, or other designation, the total
amount (including all receipts, cash, credits and property of any kind or nature) received or
payable for sales of goods, wares or merchandise or for the performance of any act or service of
any nature for which a charge is made or credit allowed (whether such service, act or
employment is done as part of or in connection with the sale of goods, wares, merchandise or
not), without any deduction therefrom on account of the cost of the property sold, the cost of
materials used, labor or service costs, interest paid or payable, losses or any other expense
whatsoever. However, the following shall be excluded from Gross Receipts:

1.	Cash discounts where allowed and taken on sales;

2.	Any tax required by law to be included in or added to the purchase price
and collected from the consumer or purchaser;

3.	Such part of the sale price of any property returned by purchasers to the
seller as refunded by the seller by way of cash or credit allowances or return of
refundable deposits previously included in gross receipts;

4.	Receipts derived from the occasional sale of used, obsolete or surplus
trade fixtures, machinery or other equipment used by the taxpayer in the regular course of
the taxpayer's business;

5.	Cash value of sales, trades or transactions between departments or units of

Cannabis Tax Ordinance
Prepared February 28, 2017
Page 4

the same business;

6.	Whenever there are included within the gross receipts amounts which
reflect sales for which credit is extended and such amount proved uncollectible in a
subsequent year, those amounts may be excluded from the gross receipts in the year they
prove to be uncollectible; provided, however, if the whole or portion of such amounts
excluded as uncollectible are subsequently collected they shall be included in the amount
of gross receipts for the period when they are recovered;

7.	Receipts of refundable deposits, except that such deposits when forfeited
and taken into income of the business shall not be excluded when in excess of one dollar;

8.	Amounts collected for others where the business is acting as an agent or
trustee and to the extent that such amounts are paid to those for whom collected. These
agents or trustees must provide the finance department with the names and the addresses
of the others and the amounts paid to them. This exclusion shall not apply to any fees,
percentages, or other payments retained by the agent or trustees.

O.	“Lighting” means a source of light that is primarily used for promoting the
biological process of plant growth. Lighting does not include sources of light that primarily exist
for the safety or convenience of staff or visitors to the facility, such as emergency lighting,
walkway lighting, or light admitted via small skylights, windows or ventilation openings.

P.	“Nursery” means a facility or part of a facility that is used only for producing
clones, immature plants, seeds, and other agricultural products used specifically for the planting,
propagation, and cultivation of cannabis.

Q.	“Person” means an individual, firm, partnership, joint venture, association,
corporation, limited liability company, estate, trust, business trust, receiver, syndicate, or any
other group or combination acting as a unit, whether organized as a nonprofit or for-profit entity,
and includes the plural as well as the singular number.

R.	“Sale” means and includes any sale, exchange, or barter.

S.	“State” means the State of California.

T.	“State license,” “license,” or “registration” means a state license issued pursuant
to California Business & Professions Code Sections 19300, et seq. or other applicable state law.

U.	“Tax Administrator” means the Finance Director of the City of California City or
his or her designee.

V.	“Testing Laboratory” means a cannabis business that (i) offers or performs tests
of medical cannabis or medical cannabis products, (ii) offers no service other than such tests, (iii)
sells no products, excepting only testing supplies and materials, (iv) is accredited by an
accrediting body that is independent from all other persons involved in the medical cannabis

Cannabis Tax Ordinance
Prepared February 28, 2017

Page 5

industry in the state and (v) is registered with the State Department of Public Health.

3-2.8.050 Tax imposed.

A.	Beginning July 1, 2018, there is imposed upon each person who is engaged in
business as a cannabis business a cannabis business tax.

B.	The initial rate of the cannabis business tax shall be as follows:

1.	For every person who is engaged in commercial cannabis cultivation in the
City:

a.	Seven dollars ($7.00) annually per square foot of canopy space in facility
that uses exclusively artificial lighting.

b.	Five dollars ($5.00) annually per square foot of canopy space in a facility
that uses a combination of natural and supplemental artificial lighting.

c.	One dollar ($ 1.00) annually per square foot of canopy space in a facility
that uses no artificial lighting.

d.	Fifty cents ($0.50) annually per square foot of canopy space for any
nursery.

2.	For every person who engages in the operation of a testing laboratory: two
percent (2%) of gross receipts.

3.	For every person who engages in a cannabis business in the City other than
commercial cannabis cultivation or the operation of a testing laboratory: six
percent (6%) of gross receipts.

C.	The City Council may, by resolution or ordinance, adjust the rate of the cannabis
business tax. However, in no event may the City Council set any adjusted rate
that exceeds the maximum rate calculated pursuant to Subdivision (D) of this
Section for the date on which the adjusted rate will commence.

D.	The maximum rate shall be calculated as follows:

1.	For every person who is engaged in commercial cannabis cultivation in the
City:

a. Through June 30, 2021, the maximum rate shall be:

i.	Seven dollars ($7.00) annually per square foot of canopy space in a
facility that uses exclusively artificial lighting.

Cannabis Tax Ordinance
Prepared February 28. 2017
Page 6

ii.	Five dollars ($5.00) annually per square foot of canopy space in a
facility that uses a combination of natural and supplemental
artificial lighting.

iii.	One dollar ($1.00) annually per square foot of canopy space in a
facility that uses no artificial lighting.

iv.	Fifty cents ($.50) annually per square foot of canopy space for any
nursery.

b. On July 1, 2021 and on each July 1 thereafter, the maximum annual tax
rate per square foot of each type of canopy space shall increase by the
percentage change between January of the calendar year prior to such
increase and January of the calendar year of the increase in the Consumer
Price Index (“CPI”) for all urban consumers in the Los-Angeles-
Riverside-Orange County areas as published by the United States
Government Bureau of Labor Statistics. However, no CPI adjustment
resulting in a decrease of any tax imposed by this subsection shall be
made.

2.	For every person who engages in a cannabis business in the City other than
commercial cannabis cultivation the maximum rate shall be the rate set forth
in subdivision (B) of this section.

3-2.8.060 Reporting and remittance of tax.

A.	The cannabis business tax imposed by this Article shall be paid, in arrears, on a
quarterly basis. For commercial cannabis cultivation, the tax due for each
calendar quarter shall be based on the square footage of the business’s canopy
space during the quarter and the rate shall be 25% of the applicable annual rate.
For all other cannabis businesses activities, the tax due for each calendar quarter
shall be based on the gross receipts for the quarter.

B.	Each person owing cannabis business tax for a calendar quarter shall, no later than
the last day of the month following the close of the calendar quarter, file with the
tax administrator a statement of the tax owed for that calendar quarter and the
basis for calculating that tax. The tax administrator may require that the statement
be submitted on a form prescribed by the tax administrator. The tax for each
calendar quarter shall be due and payable on that same date as the statement for
the calendar quarter is due.

C.	Upon cessation of a cannabis business, tax statements and payments shall be
immediately due for all calendar quarters up to the calendar quarter during which
cessation occurred.

Cannabis l ax Ordinance
Prepared February 28, 2017
Page 7

D.	The tax administrator may, at his or her discretion, establish shorter report and
payment periods for any taxpayer as the tax administrator deems necessary to
ensure collection of the tax. The tax administrator may also require that a deposit,
to be applied against the taxes for a calendar quarter, be made by a taxpayer at the
beginning that calendar quarter. In no event shall the deposit required by the tax
administrator exceed the tax amount he or she projects will be owed by the
taxpayer for the calendar quarter. The tax administrator may require that a
taxpayer make payments via a cashier’s check, money order, wire transfer, or
similar instrument.

E.	For purposes of this section, the square feet of canopy space for a business shall
be rebuttably presumed to be no less than the maximum square footage of canopy
allowed by the business’s City permit for commercial cannabis cultivation, or, in
the absence of a City permit, the square footage shall be the maximum square
footage of canopy for commercial cannabis cultivation allowed by the state
license type. In no case shall canopy square footage which is authorized by the
permit or license but not utilized for cultivation be excluded from taxation unless
the Tax Administrator is informed in writing, prior to the period for which the
space will not be used, that such space will not be used.

3-2.8.070 Payments and communications - timely remittance.

Whenever any payment, statement, report, request or other communication is due, it must
be received by the Tax Administrator on or before the final due date. A postmark will not be
accepted as timely remittance. If the due date would fall on a Saturday, Sunday or a holiday, the
due date shall be the next regular business day on which the City is open to the public.

3-2.8.080 Payment - when taxes deemed delinquent.

Unless otherwise specifically provided under other provisions of this Article, the taxes
required to be paid pursuant to this Article shall be deemed delinquent if not received by the Tax
Administrator on or before the due date as specified in Sections 3-2.8.060 and 3-2.8.070.

3-2.8.090	Notice not required by the City.

The City may as a courtesy send a tax notice to the business. However, the Tax
Administrator is not required to send a delinquency or other notice or bill to any person subject
to the provisions of this Article. Failure to send such notice or bill shall not affect the validity of
any tax or penalty due under the provisions of this Article.

3-2.8.100	Penalties and interest.

A.	Any person who fails or refuses to pay any cannabis business tax required to be
paid pursuant to this Article on or before the due date shall pay penalties and interest as follows:

Cannabis Tax Ordinance
Prepared February 28, 2017
Page 8

1.	A penalty equal to ten percent (10%) of the amount of the tax, in addition
to the amount of the tax, plus interest on the unpaid tax calculated from the due date of
the tax at the rate of one percent (1.0%) per month.

2.	If the tax remains unpaid for a period exceeding one calendar month
beyond the due date, an additional penalty equal to twenty-five percent (25%) of the
amount of the tax, plus interest at the rate of one percent (1.0%) per month on the unpaid
tax and on the unpaid penalties.

3.	Interest shall be applied at the rate of one percent (1.0%) per month on the
first day of the month for the full month, and will continue to accrue monthly on the tax
and penalty until the balance is paid in full.

B.	Whenever a check or electronic payment is submitted in payment of a cannabis
business tax and the payment is subsequently returned unpaid by the bank for any reason, the
taxpayer will be liable for the tax amount due plus any fees, penalties and interest as provided for
in this Section, and any other amount allowed under state law.

3-2.8.110	Refunds and credits.

A.	No refund shall be made of any tax collected pursuant to this Article, except as
provided in Section 3-2.8.120/

B.	No refund of any tax collected pursuant to this Article shall be made because of
the discontinuation, dissolution, or other termination of a business.

3-2.8.120	Refunds and procedures.

A.	Whenever the amount of any cannabis business tax, penalty or interest has been
overpaid, paid more than once, or has been erroneously collected or received by the City under
this Article, it may be refunded to the claimant who paid the tax provided that a written claim for
refund is filed with the Tax Administrator within one (1) year of the date the tax was originally
due and payable.

B.	The Tax Administrator, his or her designee or any other City officer charged with
the administration of this Article shall have the right to examine and audit all the books and
business records of the claimant in order to determine the eligibility of the claimant to the
claimed refund. No claim for refund shall be allowed if the claimant refuses to allow such
examination of claimant's books and business records after request by the Tax Administrator to
do so.

C.	In the event that the cannabis business tax was erroneously paid and the error is
attributable to the City, the City shall refund the amount of tax erroneously paid up to one (1)
year from when the error was identified.

3-2.8.130 Personal Cultivation Not Taxed.

Cannabis Tax Ordinance
Prepared February 28, 2017
Page 9

The provisions of this Article shall not apply to personal cannabis cultivation as defined
in the “California Control, Regulate and Tax Adult Use of Marijuana Initiative”. This Article
shall not apply to personal use of cannabis that is specifically exempted from state licensing
requirements, that meets the definition of personal use or equivalent terminology under state law,
and for which the individual receives no compensation whatsoever related to that personal use.

3-2.8.140 Administration of the tax.

A.	It shall be the duty of the Tax Administrator to collect the taxes, penalties, fees,
and perform the duties required by this Article.

B.	For purposes of administration and enforcement of this Article generally, the Tax
Administrator may from time to time promulgate such administrative interpretations, rules, and
procedures consistent with the purpose, intent, and express terms of this Article as he or she
deems necessary to implement or clarify such provisions or aid in enforcement.

C.	The Tax Administrator may take such administrative actions as needed to
administer the tax, including but not limited to:

1.

2.

3.

4.

5.

6.

3-2.8.150

Provide to all cannabis business taxpayers forms for the reporting of the tax;
Provide information to any taxpayer concerning the provisions of this Article;
Receive and record all taxes remitted to the City as provided in this Article;
Maintain records of taxpayer reports and taxes collected pursuant to this Article;
Assess penalties and interest to taxpayers pursuant to this Article;

Determine amounts owed and enforce collection pursuant to this Article.
Appeal procedure.

Any taxpayer aggrieved by any decision of the Tax Administrator with respect to the
amount of tax, interest, penalties and fees, if any, due under this Article may appeal to the City
Council by filing a notice of appeal with the City Clerk within thirty (30) days of the serving or
mailing of the determination of tax due. The City Clerk shall fix a time and place for hearing
such appeal, and the City Clerk shall give notice in writing to such operator at the last known
place of address. The finding of the City Council shall be final and conclusive and shall be
served upon the appellant in the manner prescribed by this Article for service of notice of
hearing. Any amount found to be due shall be immediately due and payable upon the service of
the notice.

3-2.8.160 Enforcement - action to collect.

Cannabis Tax Ordinance
Prepared February 28, 2017
Page 10

Any taxes, penalties and/or fees required to be paid under the provisions of this Article
shall be deemed a debt owed to the City. Any person owing money to the City under the
provisions of this Article shall be liable in an action brought in the name of the City for the
recovery of such debt. The provisions of this Section shall not be deemed a limitation upon the
right of the City to bring any other action including criminal, civil and equitable actions, based
upon the failure to pay the tax, penalties and/or fees imposed by this Article or the failure to
comply with any of the provisions of this Article.

3-2.8.170	Apportionment.

If a business subject to the tax is operating both within and outside the City, it is the
intent of the City to apply the cannabis business tax so that the measure of the tax fairly reflects
the proportion of the taxed activity actually carried on in the City. To the extent federal or state
law requires that any tax due from any taxpayer be apportioned, the taxpayer may indicate said
apportionment on his or her tax return. The Tax Administrator may promulgate administrative
procedures for apportionment as he or she finds useful or necessary.

3-2.8.180	Constitutionality and	legality.

This tax is intended to be applied in a manner consistent with the United States and
California Constitutions and state law. None of the tax provided for by this Article shall be
applied in a manner that causes an undue burden upon interstate commerce, a violation of the
equal protection or due process clauses of the Constitutions of the United States or the State of
California or a violation of any other provision of the California Constitution or state law. If a
person believes that the tax, as applied to him or her, is impermissible under applicable law, he
or she may request that the tax administrator release him or her from the obligation to pay the
impermissible portion of the tax.

3-2.8.190	Audit and examination	of premises and records.

A.	For the purpose of ascertaining the amount of cannabis business tax owed or
verifying any representations made by any taxpayer to the City in support of his or her tax
calculation, the Tax Administrator shall have the power to inspect any location where
commercial cannabis cultivation occurs and to audit and examine all books and records
(including, but not limited to bookkeeping records, state and federal income tax returns, and
other records relating to the gross receipts of the business) of persons engaged in cannabis
businesses. In conducting such investigation, the tax administrator shall have the power to
inspect any equipment, such as computers or point of sale machines, that may contain such
records.

B.	It shall be the duty of every person liable for the collection and payment to the
City of any tax imposed by this Article to keep and preserve, for a period of at least three (3)
years, all records as may be necessary to determine the amount of such tax as he or she may have
been liable for the collection of and payment to the City, which records the Tax Administrator or
his/her designee shall have the right to inspect at all reasonable times.

Cannabis Tax Ordinance
Prepared February 28, 2017
Page 11

Other licenses, permits, taxes, fees or charges.

3-2.8.200

A.	Nothing contained in this Article shall be deemed to repeal, amend, be in lieu of,
replace or in any way affect any requirements for any permit or license required by,
under or by virtue of any provision of any other article of this code or any other
ordinance or resolution of the City, nor be deemed to repeal, amend, be in lieu of,
replace or in any way affect any tax, fee or other charge imposed, assessed or
required by, under or by virtue of any other article of this code or any other ordinance
or resolution of the City. Any references made or contained in any other article of this
code to any licenses, license taxes, fees, or charges, or to any schedule of license fees,
shall be deemed to refer to the licenses, license taxes, fees or charges, or schedule of
license fees, provided for in other article of this code.

B.	Notwithstanding subdivision (A) of this Section a cannabis business shall not be
required to pay the license fee required by Division 2 of Article 3 of Chapter 2 of
Title 3 of this Code so long as all of business’s activities within the City that would
require payment of a license fee are activities subject to the cannabis business tax.

C.	The tax administrator may revoke or refuse to renew the license required by Section
3-3.2.201 of this Code for any business that is delinquent in the payment of any tax
due pursuant to this Article or that fails to make a deposit required by the tax
administrator pursuant to Section 3-2.8.060.

3-2.8.210 Payment of tax does not authorize unlawful business.

A. The payment of a cannabis business tax required by this Article, and its
acceptance by the City, shall not entitle any person to carry on any cannabis business unless the
person has complied with all of the requirements of this Code and all other applicable state laws.

B. No tax paid under the provisions of this Article shall be construed as authorizing
the conduct or continuance of any illegal or unlawful business, or any business in violation of
any local or state law.

3-2.8.220 Deficiency determinations.

If the Tax Administrator is not satisfied that any statement filed as required under the
provisions of this Article is correct, or that the amount of tax is correctly computed, he or she
may compute and determine the amount to be paid and make a deficiency determination upon
the basis of the facts contained in the statement or upon the basis of any information in his or her
possession or that may come into his or her possession within three (3) years of the date the tax
was originally due and payable. One or more deficiency determinations of the amount of tax due
for a period or periods may be made. When a person discontinues engaging in a business, a
deficiency determination may be made at any time within three (3) years thereafter as to any
liability arising from engaging in such business whether or not a deficiency determination is
issued prior to the date the tax would otherwise be due. Whenever a deficiency determination is

Cannabis Tax Ordinance
Prepared February 28, 2017
Page 12

made, a notice shall be given to the person concerned in the same manner as notices of
assessment are given under Section 3-2.8.240.

3-2.8.230 Failure to report—nonpayment, fraud.

A. Under any of the following circumstances, the Tax Administrator may make and
give notice of an assessment of the amount of tax owed by a person under this Article at any
time:

1.	If the person has not filed a complete statement required under the
provisions of this Article;

2.	If the person has not paid the tax due under the provisions of this Article;

3.	If the person has not, after demand by the Tax Administrator, filed a
corrected statement, or furnished to the Tax Administrator adequate substantiation of the
information contained in a statement already filed, or paid any additional amount of tax
due under the provisions of this Article; or

4.	If the Tax Administrator determines that the nonpayment of any business
tax due under this Article is due to fraud, a penalty of twenty-five percent (25%) of the
amount of the tax shall be added thereto in addition to penalties and interest otherwise
stated in this Article and any other penalties allowed by law.

B. The notice of assessment shall separately set forth the amount of any tax known
by the Tax Administrator to be due or estimated by the Tax Administrator, after consideration of
all information within the Tax Administrator's knowledge concerning the business and activities
of the person assessed, to be due under each applicable section of this Article, and shall include
the amount of any penalties or interest accrued on each amount to the date of the notice of
assessment.

3-2.8.240 Tax assessment - notice requirements.

The notice of assessment shall be served upon the person either by personal delivery, or
by a deposit of the notice in the United States mail, postage prepaid thereon, addressed to the
person at the address of the location of the business or to such other address as he or she shall
register with the Tax Administrator for the purpose of receiving notices provided under this
Article; or, should the person have no address registered with the Tax Administrator for such
purpose, then to such person's last known address. For the purposes of this Section, a service by
mail is complete at the time of deposit in the United States mail.

3-2.8.250 Tax assessment - hearing, application and determination.

Within thirty (30) days after the date of service the person may apply in writing to the
Tax Administrator for a hearing on the assessment. If application for a hearing before the City is
not made within the time herein prescribed, the tax assessed by the Tax Administrator shall

Cannabis Tax Ordinance
Prepared February 28, 2017
Page 13

become final and conclusive. Within thirty (30) days of the receipt of any such application for
hearing, the Tax Administrator shall cause the matter to be set for hearing before him or her no
later than thirty (30) days after the receipt of the application, unless a later date is agreed to by
the Tax Administrator and the person requesting the hearing. Notice of such hearing shall be
given by the Tax Administrator to the person requesting such hearing not later than five (5) days
prior to such hearing. At such hearing said applicant may appear and offer evidence why the
assessment as made by the Tax Administrator should not be confirmed and fixed as the tax due.
After such hearing the Tax Administrator shall determine and reassess the proper tax to be
charged and shall give written notice to the person in the manner prescribed in Section 3-2.8.240
for giving notice of assessment.

3-2.8.260 Conviction for violation - taxes not waived.

The conviction and punishment of any person for failure to pay the required tax shall not
excuse or exempt such person from any civil action for the tax debt unpaid at the time of such
conviction. No civil action shall prevent a criminal prosecution for any violation of the
provisions of this Article or of any state law requiring the payment of all taxes.

3-2.8.270 Violation deemed misdemeanor.

Any person violating any of the provisions of this Article shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.

3-2.8.280 Severability.

If any provision of this Article, or its application to any person or circumstance, is
determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be unlawful, unenforceable or otherwise void,
that determination shall have no effect on any other provision of this Article or the application of
this Article to any other person or circumstance and, to that end, the provisions hereof are
severable.

3-2.8.290	Remedies cumulative.

All remedies and penalties prescribed by this Article or which are available under Title 1
of the City Code and any other provision of law or equity are cumulative. The use of one or
more remedies by the City shall not bar the use of any other remedy for the purpose of enforcing
the provisions of this Article.

3-2.8.300	Amendment or repeal.

This Article may be repealed or amended by the City Council without a vote of the
people to the extent allowed by law. However, as required by Article XIII C of the California
Constitution, voter approval is required for any amendment that would increase the rate of any
tax levied pursuant to this Article. The people of the City of California City affirm that the
following actions shall not constitute an increase of the rate of a tax:

Cannabis Tax Ordinance
Prepared February 28, 2017
Page 14

A.	The restoration of the rate of the tax to a rate that is no higher than that set by this
Article, if the City Council has acted to reduce the rate of the tax;

B.	An action that interprets or clarifies the methodology of the tax, or any definition
applicable to the tax, so long as interpretation or clarification (even if contrary to some prior
interpretation or clarification) is not inconsistent with the language of this Article; or

C.	The collection of the tax imposed by this Article, even if the City had, for some
period of time, failed to collect the tax.

SECTION 2. SEVERABILITY. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of
this ordinance is for any reason held to be invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity of
the remaining portions of this ordinance. The City Council hereby declares that it would have
passed this ordinance and each section, subsection, sentence, clause and phrase thereof,
irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, subsections, sentences, clauses, or phrases
be declared invalid.

This Ordinance was approved and adopted by the People of the City of California City at the City’s
June 6, 2017 special municipal election.

Jennifer Wood, Mayor

ATTEST:

Janet Sprague, Deputy City Clerk

Cannabis Tax Ordinance
Prepared February 28, 2017
Page 15