RESOLUTION NO. 1617-8

BOARD OF TRUSTEES
WILMAR UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT

RESOLUTION ORDERING A SPECIAL ELECTION TO BE HELD ON
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 7,2017 FOR THE PURPOSE OF SUBMITTING TO
THE QUALIFIED ELECTORS OF THE DISTRICT THE QUESTION OF
LEVYING A QUALIFIED SPECIAL TAX UPON EACH PARCEL IN THE
DISTRICT FOR EDUCATIONAL PURPOSES AND ESTABLISHING THE
SPECIFICATIONS OF THE ELECTION ORDER

WHEREAS, the Board of Trustees (the "Board") of the Wilmar Union School District
(the "District") has determined that the present revenues of the District are inadequate to fund
the cost of education within said District, and

WHEREAS, Section 4 of Article XIIIA of tire California Constitution and California.
Government Code Sections 50079 et seq. and 50075 et seq. (the "Law") authorize a school
district, upon approval by two-thirds (2/3) of the electorate voting on the measure, to levy a
qualified special tax for specified purposes following notice and a public hearing; and

WHEREAS, the Board has on this date held a public hearing which was duly noticed
where all interested persons have been heard on the matter of holding an election in the District
on the matter of levying a qualified special tax on each parcel in the District; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Trustees desires at this time to order an election to be held on
November 7, 2017 in the District for the purpose of submitting to the voters in the District the
matter of levying a qualified special tax on each parcel in the District for educational purposes
and to designate the specifications thereof, pursuant to Education Code Section 5320 et seq.; and

NOW, THEREFORE, THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE WILMAR UNION SCHOOL
DISTRICT DOES HEREBY RESOLVE, ORDER AND DETERMINE AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1. Call for Election. Tire Board hereby orders an election to be called and
consolidated with any and all elections also called to be held on November 7, 2017 insofar as
said elections are held in the same territory or in territory that is in part the same as the territory
of the District and requests the Board of Supervisors of the County of Sonoma to order such
consolidation under Elections Code Section 10400. The Board submits to the electors of the
District the question of whether a qualified special tax shall be levied and collected in the
District for the purposes as set forth more fully in the ballot proposition approved below. This
Resolution constitutes the order of the District to call such election and shall constitute the
"specifications of the election order" pursuant to Education Code Section 5322.

Section 2. Election Date. The date of the election shall be November 7, 2017, and the
election shall be held solely within the boundaries of the District.

Section 3. Purpose of Election; Ballot Proposition. The purpose of the election shall be
for the voters in the District to vote on a proposition, a full copy of which is attached hereto and
marked Exhibit "A", containing the question of whether the District shall levy a qualified
special tax in the District for tire purpose stated therein, together with the accountability
requirements of Government Code Section 50075.1. As required by Elections Code Section
13247, the abbreviated form of the measure to appear on the ballot is attached hereto and
marked as Exhibit "B". The Superintendent or his designee is hereby authorized and directed
to make any changes to the text of the proposition as required to conform to any requirements
of the Law or the Sonoma County Registrar of Voters.

Section 4. Authority for Election. Hie authority for ordering the election is contained
in Section 4 of Article XIIIA of the California Constitution and California Government Code
Sections 50079 et seq. and 50075 et seq. The authority for the specification of this election order
is contained in Section 5322 of the Education Code.

Section 5. Type of Tax Rate, and Method of Collection. Said qualified special tax shall
be levied in an amount not to exceed $65 per parcel for eight (8) years assessed against each
parcel of taxable land in the District. A parcel shall be defined as any unit of land in the District
that receives a separate tax bill from the Sonoma County Tax Collector. However, with respect
to any parcel that is classified by the Sonoma Corurty Assessor as a timeshare property, for the
purposes of levying and collecting the special tax against such parcels, to the extent permitted
by law such levy shall be set in amount proportional to the percentage of the year owned by
said timeshare. All property that would otherwise be exempt from property taxes will also be
exempt from the qualified special tax. An exemption shall be available to persons who are 65
years or older and own and occupy as a principal residence a parcel and apply to the District for
such exemption under procedures established by the District or otherwise as required by law or
by the Sonoma County Tax Collector. An exemption shall be available to persons who receive
Supplemental Security Income for a disability, regardless of age, and own and occupy as a
principal residence a parcel and apply to the District for such exemption under procedures
established by the District or otherwise as required by law or by the Sonoma County Tax
Collector.

Section 6. Accountability Requirements. Hie members of the Board, the
Superintendent and officers of the District are hereby requested and directed, individually and
collectively, to provide accountability measures pursuant to Government Code Section 50075.1
that include, but are not limited, to the following:	(a)	a	statement indicating the specific

purposes of the special tax, (b) a requirement that the proceeds be applied only to the specific
purposes identified, (c) the creation of an account into which the proceeds shall be deposited,
and (d) an annual report pursuant to Government Code Section 50075.3 as provided in Section 7
hereof. Such accountability measures shall be set forth on the ballot in the form of Exhibit A
attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference.

Section 7. Annual Report. Pursuant to Government Code Section 50075.3, the Board
directs the chief fiscal officer of the District to file a report with the Board each year containing
(a) the amount of funds collected and expended and (b) the status of any project required or
authorized to be funded as identified in Section 6(a) hereof.

-9- 2

Section 8. Delivery of this Resolution. The Clerk of the Board is hereby directed to
send a copy of this Resolution to the Sonoma County Superintendent of Schools, the Sonoma
County Registrar of Voters (the "County Registrar") and the Sonoma County Clerk of the Board
of Supervisors.

Section 9. Consolidation of Election. The County Registrar and the Sonoma County
Board of Supervisors are hereby requested to consolidate the election ordered hereby with any
and all other elections to be held on November 7,2017, within the District.

Section 10. Ballot Arguments. Any and all members of this Board are hereby
authorized to act as air author of any ballot argument prepared in connection with the election,
including a rebuttal argument. The Superintendent, President of the Board, or their designees,
are hereby authorized to execute any document and to perform all acts necessary to place the
measure on the ballot.

Section 11. Notice of Election. That the Sonoma County Registrar of Voters is hereby
requested to prepare a formal Notice of Qualified Special Tax Election in time, form and
manner as required by law. The suggested form of notice of the election is as follows:

WILMAR UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT
SPECIAL ELECTION NOTICE

NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN to the qualified
electors of the Wilmar Union School District (the
"District") of Sonoma County, that in accordance with
law, an election will be held on Tuesday, the 7th of
November, 2017 in the District, at which election there
will be submitted the question of levying a qualified
special tax of $65 annually for eight (8) years, on each
nonexempt parcel of land in the District for the purpose
of raising money for the cost of public education,
exempting seniors and property owners receiving
Supplemental Security Income for a disability.

Section 12. Printing. The Sonoma County Elections Department is requested to print
the attached measure text exactly as filed in the Voter's Information Pamphlet section of the
Sample Ballot for the November 7, 2017 election. Cost of printing and distribution of the
measure text will be paid for by the District.

Section 13. Reimbursement for Services Performed. The Wilmar Union School District
agrees to reimburse Sonoma County Registrar of Voters for services performed when work is
completed on the election upon presentation of a bill.

Section 14. Election Pursuant to Law. In all particulars not recited in this Resolution,
said election shall be held and conducted as provided by law for holding school district
elections in the District.

-10- 3

Section 15. Certification by Clerk of the Board. That the Clerk of the Board shall certify
to the passage and adoption of and shall make minutes of the passage and adoption therefore in
the records of the proceedings of the Board of Trustees of the District, in the minutes of the
meeting at which the same is passed and adopted.

ADOPTED, SIGNED AND APPROVED this 20th day of June, 2017.

BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE
WILMAR UNION
SCHOOL DISTRICT

i I'	=—

President

ATTEST:

-11- 4

EXHIBIT A

BALLOT MEASURE
FULL TEXT OF MEASURE

INTRODUCTION

To provide local funding which the State cannot take away, keep class sizes
small, protect academic excellence, vocal and instrumental music, arts, maintain
counseling services, provide current technology, and keep our library open, with
no funds spent on administrators' salaries, and provide a senior citizen
exemption, shall Wilmar Union School District (Wilson School) be authorized to
levy $65 per parcel annually for eight (8) years# (ttfO/dffOu/t/) W-fufiefs raided) P

STATEMENT OF PURPOSES

To provide local revenue that cannot be taken by the State and to aid in
maintaining public education in our schools, the Wilmar Union School District proposes
to levy and collect a qualified special parcel tax as described below (see "SPECIAL TAX
AND PROCEDURES" below), and to implement accountability measures in connection
with the special parcel tax to provide oversight and accountability to ensure that funds
are used to:

•	To keep class sizes small;

•	Protect academic excellence;

•	Keep vocal and instrumental music;

•	Maintain student counseling services;

•	Provide current technology for all students;

•	Keep our library open.

The Board of Trustees will utilize parcel tax proceeds for the purposes listed
above, unless the Board of Trustees determines in any given year that changes in student
population, fiscal constraints, or other changes in state or federal funding make doing so
unfeasible or inadvisable. In any event, the Board of Trustees will not fund any program
or reduction other than those listed above from the proceeds of the special parcel taxes.

SPECIAL TAX AND PROCEDURES

Special Tax Generally. Subject to two-thirds approval of the voters, the special tax
of $65 per parcel shall be levied and collected for a period of eight (8) years,
commencing July 1, 2018, and be collected by the Sonoma County Tax Collector at the
same time as and along with, and shall be subject to the same penalties as general ad
valorem taxes collected by said tax collector.

A-l

Definition of Parcel. A parcel is defined as any unit of land in the District that
receives a separate tax bill from the Sonoma County Tax Collector. However, with
respect to any parcel that is classified by the Sonoma County Assessor as a timeshare
property, for the purposes of levying and collecting the special tax against such parcels,
to the extent permitted by law such levy shall be set in amount proportional to the
percentage of the year owned by said timeshare.

Exemptions. The following exemptions shall apply to the levy of the qualified
special tax.

•	Otherwise Exempt Property. All property that would otherwise be
exempt from property taxes shall also be exempt from the parcel tax.

•	Senior Citizen Exemption. An exemption shall be available to persons
who are 65 years or older and own and occupy as a principal
residence a parcel subject to the parcel tax.

•	Supplemental Security Income Exemption. An exemption shall be available to
persons who receive Supplemental Security Income ("SSI") for a disability
regardless of age, and own and occupy as a principal residence a parcel
subject to the parcel tax.

Exclusive Procedures. The procedures described herein with respect to the levy
and collection of the special tax and exemptions, and any additional procedures
established by the Board of Trustees, shall be the exclusive claims procedure for
claimants seeking an exemption, refund, reduction, or re-computation of the special
parcel tax. Whether any particular claim is to be resolved by the District or by the
County shall be determined by the District, in coordination with the County as
necessary. The District's Board of Trustees shall adopt such additional or supplemental
procedures as it deems necessary or convenient for the administration of the qualified
special tax.

ACCOUNTABILITY MEASURES

Legally Required Accountability Measures. In accordance with the
requirements of California Government Code sections 50075.1 and 50075.3, the
following accountability measures, among others, shall apply to the special parcel taxes
levied in accordance with this Measure: (a) the specific purposes of the special parcel tax
shall be only those purposes identified above; (b) the proceeds of the special parcel tax
shall be applied only to those specific purposes identified above; (c) a separate, special
account shall be created into which the proceeds of the special parcel taxes must be
deposited; and (d) an annual written report shall be made by the District's chief fiscal
officer to the Board of Trustees of the District showing (i) the amount of funds collected
and expended from the proceeds of the special taxes and (ii) the status of any projects,
programs, or purposes required or authorized to be funded from the proceeds of the
special taxes, as identified above.

A-2

PROTECTION OF FUNDING

Current law forbids any decrease in State or Federal funding to the District
because of the District's adoption of a parcel tax. However, if any such funds are
reduced because of the adoption of this parcel tax, then the amount of the special parcel
taxes will be reduced annually as necessary in order to restore such State or Federal
funding.

SEVERABILITY

The Board of Trustees of the District hereby declares, and the voters by
approving this measure concur, that every section, paragraph, sentence and clause of
this measure has independent value, and the Board of Trustees and the voters would
have adopted each provision hereof regardless of every other provision hereof. Upon
approval of this measure by the voters, should any part be found by a court of
competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, all remaining parts hereof shall
remain in full force and effect to the fullest extent allowed by law.

A-3

EXHIBIT B

BALLOT MEASURE
ABBREVIATED FORM*

To provide local funding which the State cannot take away, keep class sizes small,
protect academic excellence, vocal and instrumental music, arts, maintain counseling
services, provide current technology, and keep our library open, with no funds spent on
administrators' salaries, and provide a senior citizen exemption, shall Wilmar Union
School District (Wilson School) be authorized to levy $65 per parcel annually for eight
(8) years|

*Limited to 75 words pursuant to Section 13247 of the California Elections Code.

Exhibit B