COUNTY

OF

Sample Ballot

& Voter Information Pamphlet
SPECIAL ELECTION

TUESDAY, JUNE 6, 2017

THE LOCATION OF YOUR POLLING PLACE IS SHOWN ON THE BACK COVER
NOTICE: APPLICATION FOR VOTE BY MAIL BALLOT ENCLOSED

Muestra de Balota

y Panfleto de Informacion para Votante
ELECCION ESPECIAL

MARTES, 6 DE JUNIO DE 2017

EL LUGAR DONDE DEBE USTED VOTAR APARECE EN LA CUBIERTA POSTERIOR
AVISO: SOLICITUD PARA VOTAR POR BALOTA POR CORREO INCLUIDA

15-FC E223202

15-FC-0617

15FCE223202

Practice Ballot

'A

Review this ballot to get ready to vote at the polling place.
Mark it as practice and take it with you.

iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiimiiii

OFFICIAL BALLOT

Special Election

June 6,2017
Kern County, California

Pet 11155

INSTRUCTIONS TO VOTERS ! To vote for a candidate whose name appears on the ballot, fill in

the OVAL to the LEFT of the candidate’s name. To vote for a person whose name is not on the ballot, fill in the OVAL to
the LEFT of the write-in line and write in the candidate’s name. To vote for a measure, fill in the OVAL to the LEFT of the
word “YES” or the word “NO”. Marking the ballot outside of the designated space to vote for a candidate or measure may
compromise the secrecy of the ballot. If you tear, deface, or wrongly mark this ballot, return it and get another.

TO VOTE, USE BALLPOINT WITH DARK INK TO FILL IN THE OVAL COMPLETELY LIKE THIS: m

	KERN VALLEY HEALTHCARE DISTRICT	
- :	TAX MEASURE C	
To maintain local access to advanced, life-saving emergency medical care at Kem Valley Hospital for victims of accidents, heart attacks, strokes and other medical emergencies; keep medical equipment, technology and hospital facilities up-to-date; expand the Emergency Room; and attract and retain qualified doctors and medical specialists; shall Kem Valley Healthcare District establish a parcel tax of $98 per year, with independent citizens’ oversight, mandatory audits, no money for hospital salaries, and all funds dedicated to improving Kern Valley Hospital?		
O Yes	O No	

WmwMMSm

i

r

15-SB-1E

15SB1E

Revise esta balota para prepararse para votar en su lugar de
votacion. Marquela como practica y llevela con Listed.

llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll

BALOTA OFICIAL

Election Especial

6de junio de 2017
Condado de Kern de California

Pet 11155

INSTRUCCIONES PARA LOS VOTANTES: Para votar por un candidate cuyo nombre aparece

en la balota, rellene el OVALO a la IZQUIERDA del nombre del candidate. Para votar por una persona cuyo nombre no esta en la balota, rellene el
OVALO a la IZQUIERDA del renglon donde se anade y escriba el nombre del candidate. Para votar por cualquier medida, RELLENE EL OVALO ai
lado de la palabra "Si" o la palabra "No". Marcar la balota afuera del espacio designado para votar por un candidate o una medida puede
comprometer la confidencialidad de la balota. Si rompe, pintarrajea, o equivocadamente marca esta balota, regresela y consiga otra.

PARA VOTAR, USE UN BOUGRAFO CON TINTA OSCURA PARA RELLENAR EL OVALO COMPLETAMENTE ASf: ■

MEDIDA(S) SOMETIDAS AI

DISTRITO DE CUIDADO DE SALUD DE KERN VALLEY
MEDIDA CDEIMPUESTOS

Para mantener el acceso local al cuidado medico avanzado de emergencia que salva vidas en el Hospital Kern Valley para las victimas de
accidentes, ataques cardiacos, derrame cerebrates y otras emergencias medicas; mantener actualizado el equipo medico, la tecnologia y las
instalaciones hospitalarias; ampliar la Sala de Emergencias; y atraery retener a medicos y especialistas medicos cualificados; ^debera el Distrito de
Cuidado de Salud de Kern Valley establecer un impuesto por parcela de $98 por ano, con ciudadanos independientes para la supervision, auditorias
obligatorias, nada del dinero para los salarios del hospital, y todos los fondos dedicados para mejorar el Hospital Kem Valley?

O Sf

O No

15SB1S

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL
KERN VALLEY HEALTHCARE DISTRICT MEASURE C

The Board of Directors (“Board”) of the Kern Valley Healthcare District (“District”)
placed this measure on the ballot. A “Yes” vote by at least two-thirds (2/3) of the
voters voting on this measure will authorize the District to levy a special tax of
ninety-eight dollars ($98) annually on each taxable parcel of land within the Dis-
trict. The parcel tax will terminate after the year 2057.

The tax proceeds will be used to maintain local access to emergency medical care
at Kern Valley Hospital, to keep medical equipment, technology, and hospital fa-
cilities up to date, to expand the emergency room, and to attract and retain quali-
fied doctors and medical specialists. The tax may be used to fund future capital
needs of the District or to secure long-term borrowing to finance future capital
needs of the District.

The tax proceeds will be deposited in a separate fund. The District’s appropria-
tions limit will be established by the amount of tax proceeds during the first year of
the tax. if the Board authorizes securities for issuance and sale, the Board will cre-
ate one or more funds or accounts for the deposit of the securities proceeds.

The District’s chief financial officer will issue an annual report to the Board show-
ing the amount of securities proceeds received, the amount of money expended,
and the status of the acquisition, construction, or financing of the capital projects
to be financed with the proceeds. The Board will establish an independent citi-
zens’ oversight committee to ensure that securities proceeds are expended only
for future capital projects.

IMPMS-C

ANALISISIMPARCIAL POR EL ASESOR JURIDICO DEL CONDADO
DISTRITO DE CUIDADO DE SALUD DE KERN VALLEY MEDIDA C

La Junta de Directores (“Junta”) del Distrito de Cuidado de Salud de Kem Valley
(“Distrito”) puso esta medida en la balota. Un voto de “Si” de por al menos dos
tercios (2/3) de los votantes que votan en esta medida autorizara al Distrito de
gravar un impuesto especial de noventa y ocho dolares ($98) anualmente sobre
cada parcela imponible de terreno dentro del Distrito. El impuesto sobre parcelas
terminara despues del ario 2057.

Las ganancias del impuesto se usaran para mantener el acceso local al cuidado
medico de emergencia en el Hospital Kern Valley, mantener actualizado el equipo
medico, la tecnologia, y las instalaciones hospitalarias, ampliar la sala de
emergencies, y atraer y retener a medicos y especialistas medicos cualificados.
El impuesto puede usarse para financiar futuras necesidades de capital del
Distrito o para asegurar prestamos a largo plazo para financiar futuras
necesidades de capital del Distrito.

Las ganancias del impuesto seran depositadas en un fondo separado. El Ifmite de
apropiaciones del Distrito se establecera por la cantidad de las ganancias
imponibles durante el primer ario del impuesto. Si la Junta autoriza valores para
su emision y venta, la Junta creara uno o mas fondos o cuentas para el deposito
de las ganancias de los valores.

El funcionario financiero principal del Distrito emitira un informe anual a la Junta
mostrando la cantidad recibida de las ganancias de los valores, la cantidad de
dinero agotado, y el estado de la adquisicion, construction, o financiamiento de
los proyectos de capital que seran financiados con las ganancias. La Junta
establecera un comite de ciudadanos independientes para la supervision para
asegurar que las ganancias de los valores se agoten solo para futuros proyectos
de capital.

IMPMS-C.span

157

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE C

Vote YES on C to maintain access to life-saving emergency medical care here in
the Kern Valley, close to home.

When a medical emergency hits and every second counts, Kern Valley Hos-
pital may be your ONLY option. For victims of heart attacks, strokes, recre-
ational or car-related accidents and other emergencies, Kern Valley Hospital
operates THE ONLY EMERGENCY ROOM, open 24/7, in our community. The
next full service hospital ER is over an hour away.

Kern Valley can easily be cut off from outside help during major fires, earth-
quakes, or other disasters. Our hospital and ER provide emergency medical
care especially when these natural disasters hit, be they rockslides, earthquakes
or the horrific Erskine Fire that took homes, property and lives, devastating our
community in 2016.

Kern Valley Hospital was built nearly 50 years ago and does not meet current
earthquake safety standards. Without proper upgrades for seismic safety our hos-
pital may have to close, leaving no ER open for Kern Valley residents.

Measure C will:

-	Maintain local access to life-saving emergency medical care

-	Keep the hospital’s medical equipment and technology up-to-date

-	Expand and improve the Emergency Room and emergency medical care

-	Upgrade hospital facilities for safety to ensure continuous full service operation
in a disaster.

ALL funds (100%) go to improving Kern Valley Hospital. The State CANT
take this funding away.

TAXPAYER PROTECTIONS ARE REQUIRED including mandatory annual fi-
nancial audits and independent citizens oversight to ensure the money is spent
properly.

No one knows when a life-threatening medical emergency or natural disaster will
strike. Measure C helps ensure that emergency medical care will be there when
you need it most, close to home.

Local doctors, nurses, EMTs, firefighters, and other first responders urge
your support.

Stand with us - the life you save could be your own.

Please-VOTE YES on C!

s/Jeanette Rogers-Erickson, Retired 50+ Year Resident, Kernville
s/Glen Maki, Captain Kern County Fire, Wofford Heights
s/Kimberly Villani, Lifelong Resident & School Superintendent, Weldon
s/Susan Barr, Local Business Owner, Lake Isabella
s/Dr. Gary Finstad, MD

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE WAS SUBMITTED

ARGUMENTO A FAVOR DE MEDIDA C

Vote SI sobre C para mantener el acceso al cuidado medico de emergencia para
salvar vidas aqui en Kern Valley, cerca de casa.

Cuando una emergencia medica llega y cada segundo cuenta, el Hospital
Kern Valley puede ser su UNICA opcion. Para las victimas de ataques
cardiacos, derrames cerebrales, accidentes de recreo o relacionados con
automoviles y otras emergencias, el Hospital Kern Valley opera la UNICA SALA
DE EMERGENCIA, abierta las 24/7, en nuestra comunidad. El siguiente hospital
de servicio completo ER esta a mas de una hora de distancia.

Kern Valley puede ser facilmente aislada de ayuda de afuera durante fuegos
y terremotos graves, u otros desastres. Nuestro hospital y ER proporcionan
cuidado medico de emergencia especialmente cuando estos desastres naturales
ocurren, ya sean deslizamientos de rocas, terremotos o el horrible Incendio de
Erskine que se llevo casas, propiedades y vidas, devastando a nuestra
comunidad en 2016.

El Hospital Kern Valley fue construido hace casi 50 anos y no cumple con las
normas actuates de seguridad contra terremotos. Sin actualizaciones adecuadas
para la seguridad sfsmica nuestro hospital podra tener que cerrar, no dejando
abierta ninguna ER para los residentes de Kern Valley.	]

MedidaC:

-	Mantendra el acceso local al cuidado medico de emergencia para salvar vidas

-	Mantendra actualizado el equipo medico y la tecnologfa del hospital

-	Ampliara y mejorara la Sala de Emergencias y cuidado medico de emergencia

-	Mejorara las instalaciones hospitalarias para la seguridad para asegurar la
operation de servicio completo y continuo en un desastre.

TODOS los fondos (100%) van para mejorar el Hospital Kern Valley. El

Estado NO PUEDE quitarnos estos fondos.

SE REQUIEREN PROTECCIONES DE CONTRIBUYENTES incluyendo 1
auditorfas financieras anuales obligatorias y la supervision por ciudadanos \
independientes para asegurar que el dinero se gaste apropiadamente.

Nadie sabe cuando ocurrira una emergencia medica que pondra en peligro la vida	*

o un desastre natural. La Medida C ayuda a asegurar que el cuidado medico de
emergencia estara allf cuando mas lo necesite, cerca de casa.

Los medicos locales, las enfermeras, los EMT, los bomberos, y otros del
personal de primeros auxilios instan su apoyo.	1

Respaldenos - la vida que salve podria ser la suya.	;

Por favor - |VOTE SI sobre C!

f/Jeanette Rogers-Erickson, Residente de 50+ Anos Jubilada, Kernville
f/Glen Maki, Capitan de Kern County Fire, Wofford Heights	;

f/Kimberly Villani, Residente de Toda la Vida & Superintendente Escolar, Weldon ;
f/Susan Barr, Propietaria de un Negocio Local, Lake Isabella
f/Dr. Gary Finstad, Doctor Medico

NINGUN ARGUMENTO EN CONTRA DE ESTA
MEDIDA FUE SOMETIDA

ARGMEAS-C

ARGMEAS-C.span

158

DISCLAIMER: All documents are printed exactly as submitted to the Elections Office

EXHIBIT
BALLOT MEASURE C
FULL TEXT OF THE MEASURE

Kern Valley Healthcare District

The District hereby sets the full text of the measure to be placed on the ballot for the election of June 6,2017, as follows:

(a)	The District will levy a parcel tax on each taxable parcel of land within the District, at an annual rate of $98 per parcel. The parcel tax will
terminate after the year 2057.

(b)	The purpose of the parcel tax will be to maintain local access to advanced, life-saving emergency medical care at Kern Valley Hospital for
victims of accidents, heart attacks, strokes and other medical emergencies; keep medical equipment, technology and hospital facilities up-to-date;
expand the Emergency Room; and attract and retain qualified doctors and medical specialists.

(c)	The parcel tax may be used to fund future capital needs of the District or to secure long-term borrowing for future capital needs of the
District.

(d)	The District’s appropriations limit will be established at an amount equal to the available funding during the first year of the parcel tax at
the rate of $98 per parcel.

(e)	Taxable parcels are those that appear on the annual secured County property tax roll.

(f)	There will be no exemptions from the levy of the parcel tax based upon number of parcels owned by an individual owner, contiguous parcels
or otherwise.

(g)	The parcel tax revenues will be deposited into a fund held by the District for the purpose of funding future capital needs of the District and
securing long-term borrowings for future capital needs of the District.

(h)	The District will cause to be filed an annual report with the Board, commencing on January 1,2018, and annually thereafter, which report will
be for the fiscal year ended June 30 of the prior year and contain information regarding the amount of parcel tax revenues collected and expended.

(i)	Since the District may chose to secure long-term borrowings with the parcel tax revenues, pursuant to sections 53410 and 53411 of the
California Government Code, the Board hereby finds, determines and directs as follows:

(i)	The purpose of any securities to be secured by parcel tax revenues shall be solely to finance future capital needs of the District.

(ii)	The Board hereby provides that at the time the securities are authorized by the Board for issuance and sale, the Board shall provide,
in such issuance resolution or other issuance documents, that the proceeds of the securities shall be used only for future capital projects.

(iii)	The Board hereby provides that at the time the securities are authorized by the Board for issuance and sale, the Board shall provide
in such issuance resolution or other issuance documents for the creation of one or more funds or accounts (which may include subaccounts)
into which the proceeds of the securities, or each series of securities as the case may be, shall be deposited. The securities may be issued in
one or more series consistent with applicable law, and the provisions and restrictions of these bond accountability provisions shall apply to
each such series of the securities.

(iv)	The District's chief financial officer shall have the responsibility (once the securities are authorized and issued) to provide to the
Board, no less often than annually, a written report which shall contain at least the following information:

(1)	The amount of the proceeds received and expended within the identified period of time. If no securities have been issued and
sold, the report may simply note such situation; and

(2)	In the event that securities have been issued and sold, and proceeds therefore received, the report shall include the status of
the acquisition, construction, or financing of the capital projects to be financed with the proceeds of such securities or series of
securities.

Such report may be combined with other periodic reports which include the same information, including, but not limited to, periodic
reports made to the California Debt and Investment Advisory Commission or continuing disclosure reports or other reports made in
connection with the securities or any series thereof.

(v)	Proceeds from the sale of the securities shall be used only for costs incurred in connection with funding of future capital projects
and the cost of the issuance of the securities issued to finance future capital projects, and not for any other purpose, including staff and
administrator salaries and other operating expenses.

(vi)	The Board shall establish an independent citizens' oversight committee to ensure securities proceeds are expended only for
future capital projects.

These accountability provisions shall apply only until all securities, or each series of securities, are redeemed or defeased, but if the
securities or any series of securities are refunded, such provisions shall apply until ail such refunding securities are redeemed or defeased.

15-9

159

DENEGACION DE RESPONSABILIDAD: Todos los documentos se imprimen exactamente
tal como son presentados a la Oficina de Elecciones

DOCUMENTO DE PRUEBA
MEDIDA DE LA BALOTA C
TEXTO COMPLETO DE LA MEDIDA

Distrito de Cuidado de Salud de Kern Valley

El Distrito por la presente establece el texto completo de la medida para ser puesto en la balota para la election del 6 de junio de 2017, como sigue:

(a)	El Distrito gravara un impuesto sobre parcelas en cada parcela gravable de terreno dentro del Distrito, a una tasa anual de $98 por
parcela. El impuesto sobre parcelas terminara despues del ano 2057.

(b)	El proposito del impuesto sobre parcelas sera para mantener el acceso local al cuidado medico avanzado de emergencia que salva vidas
en el Hospital Kem Valley para las victimas de accidentes, ataques cardiacos, derrames cerebrates y otras emergencias medicas; mantener
actualizado el equipo medico, la tecnologia y las instalaciones hospitalarias; ampliar la Sala de Emergencias; y atraer y retener a medicos y
especialistas medicos cualificados.

(c)	El impuesto sobre parcelas puede usarse para financiar futuras necesidades de capital del Distrito o para asegurar prestamos a largo
plazo para futuras necesidades de capital del Distrito.

(d)	El limite de apropiaciones del Distrito se establecera a una cantidad igual al financiamiento disponible durante el primer ano del impuesto
sobre parcelas a la tasa de $98 por parcela.

(e)	Las parcelas imponibles son aquellas que aparecen en la lista asegurada de impuestos anuales de propiedad del Condado.

(f)	No habra exenciones del gravamen del impuesto sobre parcelas basado en el numero de parcelas que tiene un propietario individual,
parcelas contiguas o de otro modo.

(g)	Los ingresos del impuesto sobre parcelas se depositaran en un fondo que tiene el Distrito para el proposito de financiar futuras
necesidades de capital del Distrito y asegurar prestamos a largo plazo para las futuras necesidades de capital del Distrito.

(h)	El Distrito hara que se presente un informe anual con la Junta, comenzando el 1 de enero de 2018, y anualmente a partir de entonces,
cuyo informe sera para el ano fiscal terminado el 30 de junio del ano anterior y contendra informacion sobre la cantidad de los ingresos del impuesto
sobre parcelas recaudados y gastados.

(i)	Dado que el Distrito puede optar por asegurar prestamos a largo plazo con los ingresos del impuesto sobre parcelas, conforme a las
secciones 53410 y 53411 del Codigo Gubernamental de California, la Junta por la presente decide, determina y dirige como sigue:

(i)	El proposito de cualquier valor que se asegurara con los ingresos del impuesto sobre parcelas sera solamente para financiar
futuras necesidades de capital del Distrito.

(ii)	La Junta por la presente proporciona que en el momento en que la Junta autorice los valores para su emision y venta, la Junta
proporcionara, en tal resolucion de emision u otros documentos de emision, que las ganancias de los valores se usaran solamente para
futures proyectos de capital.

(iii)	La Junta por la presente proporciona que en el momento en que la Junta autorice los valores para su emision y venta, la Junta
proportional en tal resolucion de emision u otros documentos de emision para la creation de uno o mas fondos o cuentas (que pueden
incluir subcuentas) en las cuales se depositaran las ganancias de los valores, o cada serie de valores segun sea el caso. Los valores
podran emitirse en una serie o mas de acuerdo con la ley aplicable, y las disposiciones y restricciones de estas disposicioneS de rendition
de cuentas de bonos se aplicaran a cada una de tales series de valores.

(iv)	El funcionario financiero principal del Distrito tendra la responsabilidad (una vez que los valores sean autorizados y emitidos) de
proporcionarle a la Junta, no menos que anualmente, un informe escrito que contend^ al menos la siguiente informacion:

(1)	La cantidad de las ganancias recibidas y gastadas dentro del periodo del tiempo identificado. Si no se han emitido y vendido
valores, el informe puede simplemente anotar tal situation; y

(2)	En el caso de que se hubieran emitido y vendido valores, y las ganancias asi recibidas, el informe incluira el estado de la
adquisicidn, construction, o financiacion de los proyectos de capital que se financiaran con las ganancias de tales valores o serie de
valores.

Tal informe puede ser combinado con otros informes periodicos que incluyen la misma informacion, incluyendo, pero no limitado a,
informes periodicos hechos a la Comision de Asesoria de Deuda e Inversiones de California o informes de divulgation continuos u otros
informes hechos en relacion con los valores o cualquier serie de esto.

(v)	Las ganancias de la venta de los valores se usaran s6lo para los costos incurridos en relacion con el financiamiento de futures
proyectos de capital y el costo de la emision de los valores emitidos para financiar futures proyectos de capital, y no para ningun otro
proposito, incluyendo salaries de personal y administradores y otros gastos operativos.

(vi)	La Junta establecera un comite de ciudadanos independientes para la supervision para asegurar que las ganancias de los valores
se gasten s6lo para futures proyectos de capital.

Estas disposiciones de responsabilidad s6lo se aplicaran hasta que todos los valores, o cada serie de valores, sean reembolsados o
anulados, pero si se reembolsan los valores o cualquier serie de valores, tales disposiciones se aplicaran hasta que todos tales valores de
reembolso sean reembolsados o anulados.

15-10

1510