IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY PLUMAS COUNTY COUNSEL
OF CRESCENT MILLS LIGHTING DISTRICT
MEASURE “E”

This measure would authorize the Crescent Mills Lighting District (“the District”) to levy a
special parcel tax on each parcel of real property located within the District in an amount
not to exceed $45.95 for the year July 1, 2018, to June 30, 2019, and then in an amount
not to exceed $40.49 each year after July 1, 2019, for the specific purpose of providing
or enhancing street lighting services within the District. Parcels exempt from property tax
are excluded from paying the tax. The taxes will be collected on the Plumas County
property tax bill in the same manner as county property taxes. This measure would also
increase the District’s spending limit as established by Article XIII B of the California
Constitution by an amount equal to the revenue from the special tax for a period of four
years. Pursuant to Government Code Sections 50075.1 and 50075.3, proceeds from the
special tax are subject to statutory accountability measures which include, but are not
limited to, deposit to a separate account and an annual report by the local agency
detailing the amount of the funds collected and expended. This measure will pass if
two-thirds of the votes cast vote “Yes.” A “YES” vote favors imposing the special tax. A
“NO” vote opposes imposing the special tax.

This measure was placed on the ballot by the Plumas County Board of Supervisors sit-
ting as the board of directors of the District.

Is/ R. Craig Settlemire,	Dated: 8-24-2017

County Counsel, Plumas County

Argument in Favor of Measure “E”

Crescent Mills Lighting District was formed in January 1947.

The Crescent Mills Lighting District has been under financial stress for years, to the point
that the district does not currently have sufficient revenue to pay the street lighting bills
received by Pacific Gas & Electric Co. (PG&E). The present day expenses are
approximately $5,200, while the revenue from property taxes is $778.

The primary reoccurring expenditure for street lighting is the monthly fee paid to PG&E.
All 18 street lights in Crescent Mills are owned and maintained by PG&E and charged
monthly based on wattage. This monthly fee covers electricity and all maintenance
required.

The shortage of existing tax funding for street lights and the limitation of only 110 taxable
parcels necessitates a parcel tax increase of $45.95 per year (which is equal to $3.83
per month) for each taxable parcel in the district for the first year and $40.49 for each
year (which is equal to $3.37 per month) thereafter to properly fund the district. The
higher first year tax is to repay the loan of $600 from Plumas County General Fund.

Without passage of the Crescent Mills Street Lighting District parcel tax, some or all
street lights will need to be turned off.

Is/ Robert Thorman, Associate Engineer
Is/ Kevin Goss, District 2 Supervisor

COUNTY OF PLUMAS

Voter Information Guide

Crescent Mills Lighting District
Measure “E”

UNIFORM DISTRICT ELECTION

Kathy Williams
Plumas County Clerk-Recorder
Registrar of Voters
520 Main Street, Room 102
Quincy, CA 95971

Further Information:
530-283-6256
or

844-676-VOTE

CRESCENT MILLS LIGHTING DISTRICT

NOVEMBER 7, 2017
UNIFORM DISTRICT ELECTION

INFORMATION

An election will be held on Tuesday, November 7, 2017
within the boundaries of the Crescent Mills Lighting District.
Voters in the district will receive a Vote by Mail ballot along
with this Voter Information Guide. A postage paid return
Identification Envelope is also provided to return your voted
ballot. No stamp is necessary.

YOUR SIGNATURE and Plumas County residence address
are required on the return Identification Envelope for your
ballot to be counted.

Ballots must be postmarked no later than November 7, 2017,
Election Day. We advise you to mail vour ballot early to
avoid any postal delays.

You may also return your ballot at the convenient Ballot
Return Box located outside of the Courthouse at 520 Main
Street, Quincy, California, or in Room 102 of the Courthouse.

Sample Ballot for the Crescent Mills Lighting District
Uniform District Election on
November 7, 2017
Plumas County, California

INSTRUCTIONS TO VOTERS:

•	To vote you must darken the oval next to the word
“YES” or “NO”, using only black or blue ink. Do Not Use
Red.

•	Do NOT place any mark or signature on the ballot that
makes it identifiable.

•	Do NOT cut or tear any portion of the ballot

•	If you mismark an oval or change your mind, exchange
your ballot for a new one

VOTE LIKE THIS: •

MEASURE “E”

“Shall the Crescent Mills Lighting District be authorized to
adopt a special tax on each parcel of real property within the
District in an amount not to exceed $45.95 for the year July 1,
2018, to June 30, 2019, and then in amount not to exceed
$40.49 each year after July 1, 2019, to be effective and
collected with Plumas County general property taxes with the
proceeds from such taxes deposited to a special fund to be
used to provide or enhance street lighting services with the
District; and shall the appropriations limit of the District
required by Article 13B of the California Constitution be
increased by the amount of the annual proceeds of this
special tax? The Board of Directors shall have the discretion
to levy the special tax at a lower rate.”

YES	O

NO	O