I	IMPARTIAL	ANALYSIS	OF	MEASURE EM

j El Monte voters last approved the City of El Monte’s existing onc-half of
I one percent (1/2%) transactions and use tax (“half-cent tax”) in November
I 2013. The half-cent tax is paid when people purchase goods from stores and
j businesses in the City. The half-cent tax expires March 31, 2019 unless a
j majority of El Monte voters approve Measure EM, the El Monte Temporary
City Services Preservation Measure. Measure EM extends the half-cent tax by
ten years to March 31, 2029.

The tax generates approximately $4.2 million a year in revenues which are
deposited into the City’s general fund. As general fund revenues, the tax
revenues may be used to pay for various City services, including, but not
limited to the funding of essential public services such as fire and emergency
response services; police staffing; street maintenance; senior and youth
programs; park maintenance; graffiti removal; and State-mandated storm
; drain upgrades. Revenues arc also used to restore the City’s “rainy day”

; reserves.

t EXEMPTIONS: The half-cent tax does not apply to purchases of prescription
| medicines or the purchase of grocery store food basics like milk, meat,

; vegetables, bread, juices and the like.

COLLECTION: The half-cent tax is paid together with the existing State sales
tax and is col l ected in the same manner. The half-cent tax adds a half penny to
a retail purchase of $1 or 50^ to a $100 retail purchase. With the exception of
those items that are exempted from the tax, the half-cent tax applies to most
over-the-counter sales of tangible goods and as well as restaurant purchases.

» Non-City residents share in paying the tax for most over-the-counter retail
' purchases thereby helping to pay for their use of the City’s infrastructure and
services. For automobile sales, foe tax applies only if the vehicle is registered
to a City address, regardless of whether the vehicle was purchased from a
dealership located inside of the City or outside of foe City.

APPROVAL REQUIREMENT: Measure EM requires approval by a simple
majority of El Monte voters. A “Yes” vote is a vote in favor of temporarily
extending the half-cent tax for a period of ten years after March 31, 2019.

1 SUNSET CLAUSE AND CITIZEN OVERSIGHT: Under Measure EM, the
tax would expire automatically on March 31, 2029. El Monte voters also
. reserve foe right to repeal the tax in the manner prescribed by law. Measure
’ EM also preserves foe mandatory citizen’s fiscal oversight committee which
monitors the use of Measure EM revenues.

RICK R. OLIVAREZ
«	City Attorney

: The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure EM. If you
desire a copy of the half-cent tax Measure please call the City Clerk’s
Office at (626) 580-2020 and a copy will be mailed to you at no cost to
you.

PR-005114-1

N LA 010-015

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE EM

Measure EM is NOT A NEW TAX!

It is NOT A TAX INCREASE!

Measure EM simply exlends for 10 more years an existing, temporary
half-cent sales tax previously approved by voters.

Your YES vote to extend Measure EM is critical if we are to maintain
existing police, fire and paramedic services, implement crime prevention
strategies, retain senior programs and maintain streets.

A YES vote continues the Citizens Oversight Committee and ensures that
groceries and prescription drugs remain exempt.

That’s why we are counting on you to vote YES on Measure EM one
more time!

Reductions in federally funded Community Block Grant Programs, the
dissolution of all redevelopment agencies ordered by the State and reduced
sales tax revenue caused by recession-driven car dealership closures have
created an ongoing $4 million-plus fiscal year structural deficit in El Monte.

To meet these fiscal challenges City Council Members, staff and public
employees have worked hard to eliminate spending, make structural changes
and keep all fire stations open!

We just can’t afford to lose the $4 million the half-cent sales tax generates
right now. Not yet.

Soon many City revenue-generating projects will be up and running.

The Magellan project - a $55 million industrial park completed in
2016 - has already begun generating good-paying jobs and new City
revenues.

And the Gateway project, the new 14-acre development connected to the
El Monte Bus Station and the historic Downtown El Monte area, is under
construction. It will deliver hundreds of jobs, much-needed housing, retail
shops and $15 million State funded infrastructure upgrades to surrounding
streets.

(Continued on next page)

PP-005114-2

N LA 010-016

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE EM (Continued)

But until these projects and others in the pipeline for the years ahead are
completed, our City needs to extend the half-cent sales tax to keep police on
our streets, all fire stations open and streets repaved.

Vote YES on Measure EM!

DONNA CRIPPEN
El Monte Museum Curator

CAPTAIN DAVE GILLOTTE

President, Los Angeles County Firefighters, Local 1014

OFFICER ADAM GIRGLE
El Monte Police Officers Association

BOB SCHOONOVER

President, Service Employees International Union 721

ANDRE QUINTERO
Mayor, City of El Monte

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE WAS SUBMITTED

PR-005114-3

N LA 010-017

CITY OF EL MONTE

OFFICE OF THE CITY ATTORNEY
CITY COUNCIL AGENDA REPORT

SPECIAL CITY COUNCIL MEETING OF JULY 25, 2017

July 24, 2017

The Honorable Mayor and City Council
City of El Monte
11333 Valley Boulevard
El Monte, CA 91731

Dear Mayor and City Council:

A PUBLIC HEARING TO CONSIDER AND ADOPTION OF (1) A RESOLUTION OF
THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF EL MONTE (I) DECLARING A FISCAL
EMERGENCY AND CALLING AND GIVING NOTICE OF A SPECIAL MUNICIPAL
ELECTION TO BE HELD NOVEMBER 7, 2017 TO SUBMIT TO THE CITY A
QUESTION RELATING TO THE EXTENSION OF THE CITY’S EXISTING HALF-
CENT TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX; II) REQUESTING CONSOLIDATION OF
SUCH ELECTION WITH THE COUNTY GENERAL ELECTION TO BE HELD ON THE
SAME DAY; (III) REQUESTING THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES TO PROVIDE
SPECIFIC ELECTION SERVICES; AND (IV) SETTING PRIORITIES FOR FILING
WRITTEN ARGUMENTS AND REBUTTALS REGARDING CITY MEASURES AND
DIRECTING THE CITY ATTORNEY TO PREPARE AN IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS AND
(2) A FIRST READING OF AN ORDINANCE, SUBJECT TO VOTER APPROVAL,
EXTENDING THE CITY’S EXISTING GENERAL TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX
UNTIL SUCH TIME AS SUCH TAX IS REPEALED BY CITY VOTERS, PURSUANT
TO REVENUE & TAXATION CODE SECTIONS 7251 ET SEQ.

IT IS RECOMMENDED THAT THE CITY COUNCIL:

1.	Open the public hearing;

2.	Receive presentation from staff;

3.	Pose questions to staff;

4.	Receive comments from interested members of the public;

5.	Pose follow-up questions to staff;

6.	Conduct additional deliberation, if needed;

7.	Close the public hearing;

8.	Adopt the proposed Resolution by no less than unanimous (5) affirmative votes
(see Attachment 1 - Resolution); and

9.	Approve for first reading the proposed Ordinance (see Attachment 2 -
Ordinance) by simple majority vote.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE/JUSTIFICATION OF RECOMMENDED ACTION

The budget of the City of El Monte (“City”), like the budgets of municipalities throughout
the State of California, struggles to recover from the strain and stress experienced since
the so-called Great Recession that began approximately in late 2007 with the housing
market’s precipitous decline. Aside from the Great Recession, the need for recovery
was also required due to a succession of adverse economic and legislative
developments, including, but not limited to, City sales tax reductions, rising costs for
City pensions and health care, and state takeaways and regulatory mandates.

Current City sales tax revenue are still short of pre-Great Recession levels. In addition,
the City is currently managing a fiscal year deficit of approximately $4.7 million.

Since the Great Recession, the City was forced to make cuts to staff, thereby creating
challenges to the City’s ability to maintain adequate core service levels (including public
safety and emergency response services) needed to safeguard the health, safety, and
welfare of the public;

On December 29, 2011, the California Supreme Court issued a decision ordering the
dissolution of community redevelopment agencies throughout the State of California,
including the El Monte Community Redevelopment Agency. Also, the United States
Congress has also implemented reductions in Federal Funding of the Community
Develop Block Grant (“CDBG”) Budget as well as the Home Program Budget. The
elimination of both redevelopment, reductions to the CDBG and Home Program funding,
and reductions in sales tax revenues have deprived the City of significant funding
sources that helped absorb a significant portion of the City’s services and staffing needs
over the years.

The loss of these vital funding sources has created short and long-term strains on the
City’s general fund revenues and general fund reserves, in response to these ongoing
fiscal stresses, City Departments have worked diligently under the City Manager’s
Office and the City’s Finance Division to reduce departmental expenditures and
implement strategies for greater cost efficiency.

The City Council seeks to augment ongoing budget cuts and fiscal accountability with
long-term revenue-side strategies to ensure the enduring fiscal viability of the City,
including the long-term extension of its existing half-cent ($0,005) transactions and use
tax, which has helped the City preserve basic community services and infrastructure
obligations and build up critical operating reserves. The City’s fiscal crisis as herein
described is of sufficient gravity and severity that the City must at the earliest feasible
juncture propose revenue such enhancement measures to the City electorate in order to
maintain, to the extent possible, the minimal level of governmental services necessary

to protect and preserve the health and general welfare of the City’s residents, workers,
and visitors.

Accordingly, it is proposed that an extension existing half-cent ($0,005) or half-percent
(!4%) transaction and use tax be considered by City voters at a special City municipal
election on Tuesday, November 7, 2017. Such proposed extension would extend the
life of the tax beyond its current March 31, 2019 expiration (sunset) date until such time
that the tax is repealed by vote of the City electors.

In order to have the voters consider a general revenue measure at a special municipal
election, the City Council, pursuant to Section 2(b) of California Constitution Article
XI11C, must unanimously declare the existence of a fiscal emergency in that there are
imminent financial risks and dangers, as described above, to the public welfare and the
City’s financial ability to provide essential municipal services without disruption.

Proposed Resolution (Attachment 1)

The proposed Resolution would establish the requisite findings needed for the City
Council to declare a fiscal emergency to call a special election to consider an extension
of the existing transactions and use tax. It would also call and give notice of the City
November 7, 2017 special election, request consolidation of such special City election
with the General Election in Los Angeles County, request County election services, and
set priorities for filing written arguments and rebuttals regarding City measures and
direct the City Attorney to prepare an impartial analysis for the proposed ballot measure.
The question to be submitted to voters would be as follows:

Essential City Services Preservation Measure.

To preserve and maintain funding for various essential
City services, such as fire and other emergency	YES

response services, pothole repair, street and storm
drain maintenance, graffiti removal, police staffing,

street lighting, park maintenance, emergency reserves __________

maintenance and other general City services, shall an

ordinance be adopted to extend the City’s existing	NO

transactions and use tax of one-half of one percent

(/4%) until such time such tax is repealed by City

voters?

Due to the fiscal emergency findings that need to be made, a unanimous vote of the
proposed Resolution is required for approval, in accordance with Section 2(b) of
California Constitution Article XI11C.

Proposed Ordinance (Attachment 2)

The proposed Ordinance would modify Chapter 3.14 in the following ways: (1) the title
of the chapter would be changed to “El Monte Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance”;
(2) the current March 31, 2019 expiration (sunset) date would be extended until such

HONORABLE MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
JULY 24, 2017
PAGE 4

time that the tax is repealed by vote of the City electors; and (3) the establishment of a
fiscal oversight committee would be made discretionary instead of mandatory. Approval
of the first reading of the Ordinance requires as simple majority vote of the Council.
However, the Ordinance would only become effective if a majority of the votes cast by
City voters (50% plus 1) at the November 7, 2017 special election are cast in favor of
the proposed measure.

FISCAL IMPACT/FINANCING

Transactions and Use Tax Revenue History

The table below illustrates City revenue date from the Finance Department concerning

the existing transactions and use tax. complete.	Note that revenues for 2017 are not yet
YEAR	REVENUE 1
2017	$3,538,254.81 (not yet complete)
2016	$4,260,027.12
2015	$4,364,553.54
2014	$4,344,840.15
2013	$3,914,055.41
2012	$3,875,297.02
2011	$3,396,325.54
2010	$2,834,708.59
2009	$772,175.04 (partial year)

The proposed ballot measure would extend the transactions and use tax until such time
that the tax is repealed by vote of the City electors and allow the City to generate
revenue presumptively consistent with the figures above. If it is not approved, the
existing temporary transactions and use tax would expire/sunset on March 31, 2019,
unless otherwise extended by the City Council.

Special Election Costs

With regard to election costs, the Los Angeles County L.A. Registrar, Recorder &
County Clerk that the November 7, 2017 special City election to consider one ballot
measure would cost an estimated $187,000 (See Attachment 3 - County Election Cost
Estimate).

CONCLUSION

City staff recommends the placement of a ballot measure on the November 7, 2017
ballot to seek voter consent to an extension of the City’s existing transactions and use
tax until such time as such tax is repealed by vote of the City electors. The
recommendation is based on the following considerations:

•	The Voters Decide: First and foremost, the decision whether or not to extend
the City’s existing transactions and use tax would be decided by El Monte voters;
not the City Council, not the City Manager, not the City Attorney and not City
staff. If the voters feel an extension of the tax is appropriate at this time they will
vote to approve it. If it is not appropriate, they will defeat it. In the end, the
decision is theirs and theirs alone.

•	Exemptions for Certain Living Essentials (Groceries and Prescription
Drugs): The tax does not apply to most food essentials (i.e. milk, bread, cereal,
meats, vegetables, baby food, juices and the like) or prescription medications.

•	Mitigated Impact on the Public: The tax is not levied in the form of a large,
year-end lump sum payment like a parcel tax or utility service charge. The tax is
paid only upon the voluntary decision to purchase goods and products subject to
the tax; unlike most taxes which are essentially unavoidable upon
implementation, this tax is more easily avoidable by those truly determined not to
pay it. Also, for most purchases of $100 or less, the tax will only add 50 cents or
less to the transaction depending on the tax rate set.

•	Tax Burden Shared with Non-Residents: Unlike most other taxes, the burden
of paying this tax is not born by El Monte residents exclusively but also by non-
residents who make purchases in El Monte.

• Ease of Administration: The tax is administered and collected by the State
Board of Equalization and all refund requests are handled through the State
Board. This translates into minimal administrative cost to the City. The form of
the proposed Ordinance is uniform throughout the State thereby facilitating its
ease of administration.

Respectfully submitted,

Assistant City Manager

RICHARD PADILLA
Assistant City Attorney

Attachments:

1.	Resolution

2.	Ordinance

3.	County Election Cost Estimate

DATE: July 25, 2017

PRESENTED TO EL MONTE
CITY COUNCIL

□	APPROVED
□	DENIED
□	PULLED
□	RECEIVE AND FILE
□	CONTINUED
□	REFERRED TO

CHIEF DEPUTY CITY CLERK

RESOLUTION NO. 9787

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF EL
MONTE (1) DECLARING A FISCAL EMERGENCY AND CALLING
AND GIVING NOTICE OF A SPECIAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION TO
BE HELD NOVEMBER 7, 2017 TO SUBMIT TO THE CITY A
QUESTION RELATING TO THE EXTENSION OF THE CITY’S
EXISTING HALF-CENT TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX; (2)
REQUESTING CONSOLIDATION OF SUCH ELECTION WITH THE
COUNTY GENERAL ELECTION TO BE HELD ON THE SAME DAY;

(3) REQUESTING THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES TO PROVIDE
SPECIFIC ELECTION SERVICES; AND (4) SETTING PRIORITIES
FOR FILING WRITTEN ARGUMENTS AND REBUTTALS
REGARDING CITY MEASURES AND DIRECTING THE CITY
ATTORNEY TO PREPARE AN IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

WHEREAS, the City of El Monte ("City”), like municipalities throughout the State
of California, continues to struggle in its effort to fully recover from the Great Recession;

WHEREAS, the City’s goal of economic recovery have been hampered by
adverse economic and legislative developments, including reduced sales tax revenues,
rising pension and health care costs, state takeaways and costly regulatory mandates;

WHEREAS, current City sales tax revenue are still short of pre-Great Recession

levels;

WHEREAS, the City is currently managing a fiscal year deficit of approximately
$4.7 million;

WHEREAS, since the Great Recession, the City was forced to make cuts to staff,
thereby creating challenges to the City’s ability to maintain adequate core service levels
(including public safety and emergency response services) needed to safeguard the
health, safety, and welfare of the public;

WHEREAS, on December 29, 2011, the California Supreme Court issued a
decision ordering the dissolution of community redevelopment agencies throughout the
State of California, including the El Monte Community Redevelopment Agency;

WHEREAS, the United States Congress has also implemented reductions in
Federal Funding of the Community Develop Block Grant (“CDBG”) Budget as well as
the Home Program Budget;

WHEREAS, the elimination of both redevelopment, reductions to the CDBG and
Home Program funding, and reductions in sales tax revenues have deprived the City of
significant funding sources that helped absorb a significant portion of the City’s services
and staffing needs over the years;

WHEREAS, the loss of these vital funding sources has created short and long-
term strains on the City’s general fund revenues and general fund reserves;

WHEREAS, in response to these ongoing fiscal stresses, City Departments have
worked diligently under the City Manager’s Office and the City’s Finance Division to
reduce departmental expenditures and implement strategies for greater cost efficiency;

WHEREAS, the City Council seeks to augment ongoing budget cuts and fiscal
accountability with long-term revenue-side strategies to ensure the enduring fiscal
viability of the City, including the long-term extension of its existing half-cent ($0,005)
transactions and use tax, which has helped the City preserve basic community services
and infrastructure obligations and build up critical operating reserves;

WHEREAS, the City’s fiscal crisis as herein described is of sufficient gravity and
severity that the City must at the earliest feasible juncture propose revenue such

1

enhancement measures to the City electorate in order to maintain, to the extent
possible, the minimal level of governmental services necessary to protect and preserve
the health and general welfare of the City’s residents, workers, and visitors;

WHEREAS, it is proposed that the existing half-cent ($0,005) or half-percent
0/2%) transaction and use tax be extended by City voters beyond its current March 31,
2019 expiration (sunset) date until such time that the tax is repealed by vote of the City
electors;

WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 2(b) of California Constitution Article XlilC, the
City Council must unanimously declare the existence of a fiscal emergency in that there
are imminent financial risks and dangers, as described above, to the public welfare and
the City’s financial ability to provide essential municipal services without disruption, and
has called a special City municipal election on Tuesday, November 7, 2017, at which
election the attached proposed Ordinance shall be submitted to the qualified voters of
the City;

WHEREAS, it is desirable that the special City municipal election on Tuesday,
November 7, 2017 be consolidated with the County-administered General Election to be
held on the same date and that within the City the precincts, polling places, and election
officers of the two elections be the same, and that the Registrar-Recorder/County Clerk
for the County of Los Angeles canvass the returns of the such special City municipal
election and that it be held in all respects as if it were part and parcel of the County-
administered General Election;

WHEREAS, it is necessary to secure the consent and order of the Board of
Supervisors of the County of Los Angeles to effectuate such consolidation; and

WHEREAS, the City shall compensate the County of Los Angeles for all
necessary expenses incurred by the County in performing election services for the City.

NOW THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF EL MONTE,
CALIFORNIA, DOES HEREBY FIND, DETERMINE AND RESOLVE AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. The recitals above and findings therein are true and correct and
incorporated into the body of this Resolution by this reference.

SECTION 2. Pursuant to the requirements of the laws of the State of California
relating to general law cities and Elections Code Section 9222 and 12001, the City
Council hereby orders and calls a Special Municipal Election to be held in the City of El
Monte, California on Tuesday, November 7, 2017, to be consolidated with the County-
administered General Election to be held on the same day, for the purpose of submitting
to the qualified electors a measure seeking approval of a 10-year extension to the City’s
existing voter-approved one half of one percent (%%) transactions and use tax (a form
of sales tax) as hereinafter described and set forth. At present the City’s existing
transaction and use tax will expire on March 31, 2019. The proposed measure would
extend the expiration date until such time that the transactions and use tax is repealed
by vote of the City electors.

SECTION 3. Because of the threat to the public health, safety and welfare as set
forth in the foregoing recitals and sections, the City Council of the City of El Monte now
hereby unanimously finds and declares a fiscal emergency, as the term “emergency” is
used in Article XIIIC, Section 2(b) of the California Constitution, in the City of El Monte
justifying the call for the Special City Election on Tuesday, November 7, 2017, in order
for the City to propose, and City voters to consider, the adoption of the proposed
Ordinance which an extension to the City’s existing transactions and use tax, as
authorized by California Revenue and Taxation Code Section 7285.9, intended to
address that emergency by ensuring that the City has the resources necessary to
preserve the public health, safety, and welfare of its citizens.

SECTION 4. Pursuant to the requirements of Section 10403 of the California
Elections Code, it is respectfully requested that the Board of Supervisors of the County

2

of Los Angeles (the “Board of Supervisors”) consent and agree to the consolidation of
the City of El Monte’s November 7, 2017 Special City Election with the County-
administered General Election to be held on the same date.

SECTION 5. The measure to be placed on the ballot for the Special City Election
hereby called shall be printed in the ballots used at said election in substantially the
following form:

El Monte Temporary City Services Preservation Measure

To preserve and stabilize funding for various essential City
services such as fire and emergency response services; police [ ] YES
staffing; street maintenance; senior and youth programs; park
maintenance; graffiti removal; State-mandated storm drain

upgrades; and to restore the City’s “rainy day” general fund _____________

reserves, shall the City's existing half percent (1/2%)
transactions and use tax be extended for ten years, subject	[	]	NO

always to the voters’ power of repeal?

SECTION 6. It is respectfully requested that the Board of Supervisors authorize
and direct the Office of the Registrar-Recorder/County Clerk of the County of Los
Angeles (the “County Registrar”) to canvass the returns of the consolidated Special City
Election and that such election be held in all respects as if it were part and parcel of the
County-administered General Election of the same date. It is also respectfully requested
that the County Registrar give the above-subject measure the letter designation “GG”
such that the measure may be identified as Measure GG.

SECTION 7. It is respectfully requested that the County Registrar assign the
letters “GG” to this the proposed ballot measure.

SECTION 8. The vote requirement for passage of the proposed ballot measure
is a majority of the votes cast (50% plus 1).

SECTION 9. That it is further respectfully requested that the Board of
Supervisors authorize and direct the County Registrar to:

A.	Print and supply ballots for the Special City Election;

B.	Mail the ballot question, ballot arguments, rebuttals, and the City Attorney’s
impartial analysis to the registered voters in the City of El Monte.

SECTION 10. It is also respectfully requested that the Board of Supervisors
issue instructions to the County Registrar to take any and all additional steps necessary
for the holding of the consolidated election requested above.

SECTION 11. The ballots to be used at the election shall be in form and
content as required by law.

SECTION 12. The polls shall be open at 7:00 a.m. of the day of the Special
City Election and shall remain open continuously from that time until 8:00 p.m. of the
same day when the polls shall be closed, except as provided in Section 14401 of the
California Elections Code.

SECTION 13. The City Council authorizes any and all members of the City
Council to file a written argument(s) In Favor of or Against City the proposed ballot
measure, accompanied by the printed names and signatures of the author(s) submitting
it, or if submitted on behalf of an organization, the name of the organization, and the
printed name and signature of the author(s) submitting it, in accordance with Article 4,
Chapter 3, Division 9 of the California Elections Code (Elections Code Section 9280 et
seq.) and to change the argument(s) until and including the close of business on
August 18. 2017 after which no arguments for or against the proposed ballot measure
may be submitted to the City Clerk. Such arguments may not exceed three hundred

3

(300) words in length. The foregoing notwithstanding, the City Council, at its Special
Meeting of July 25, 2017 unanimously delegated to the Mayor, responsibility for drafting
an Argument In Favor of the proposed measure on behalf of the City Council.

SECTION 14. Pursuant to Section 9285 of the California Elections Code,
when the elections official has selected the arguments for and against the proposed
ballot measure which will be printed and distributed to the voters, the elections official
shall send a copy of an argument in favor of the proposition to the authors of any
argument against the measure and a copy of an argument against the measure to the
authors of any argument in favor of the measure immediately upon receiving the
arguments.

SECTION 15. The author or a majority of the authors of an argument
relating to the proposed measure may prepare and submit a rebuttal argument not
exceeding 250 words or may authorize in writing any other person or persons to
prepare, submit, or sign the rebuttal argument. A rebuttal argument may not be signed
by more than five. Such rebuttals may not exceed two hundred fifty (250) words in
length.

SECTION 16. The rebuttal arguments shall be filed with the City Clerk,
signed, with the printed name(s) and signature(s) of the author(s) submitting it, or if
submitted on behalf of an organization, the name of the organization, and the printed
name and signature of at least one of its principal officers no later than the close of
business on August 28. 2017: after such time no rebuttal arguments shall be accepted.
The rebuttal arguments shall be accompanied by the Form of Statement to Be Filed by
Author(s) of Argument. Rebuttal arguments shall be printed in the same manner as the
direct arguments. Each rebuttal argument shall immediately follow the direct argument
which it seeks to rebut.

SECTION 17. The City Council directs the City Clerk to transmit a copy of
the measure to the City Attorney, unless the organization or salaries of the office of the
City Attorney are affected. The City Attorney shall prepare an impartial analysis of the
proposed measure showing the effect of the measure on existing law and the operation
of the measure. Such impartial analysis shall be filed by August 18. 2017 with the City
Clerk for the filing of primary arguments. The impartial analysis shall not exceed five
hundred (500) words

SECTION 18. In all particulars not recited in this Resolution, the election
hereby called shall be as provided by law for holding municipal elections in the City.

SECTION 19.	Notice of the time and place of holding the election is given

and the City Clerk is authorized, instructed and directed to give further or additional
notice of the election, in time, form and manner as required by law.

SECTION 20. The City Clerk shall certify to the adoption of this Resolution
which shall be effective upon its adoption. The City Clerk of the City of El Monte is
hereby directed to file a certified copy of this Resolution with the Board of Supervisors
and County Registrar.

PASSED, APPROVED, AND ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of El
Monte at its special meeting on this 25th day of July 2017.

Andre Quintero,

Mayor of the City of El Monte

ATTEST:

4

STATE OF CALIFORNIA	)

COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES ) SS:
CITY OF EL MONTE	)

I, Jonathan Hawes, City Clerk of the City of El Monte, do hereby certify that the
above and foregoing Resolution No. 9787 was passed, approved, and adopted by the
City Council of the City of El Monte, signed by the Mayor and attested by the City Clerk
at a meeting of said City held on this 25^ day of July 2017, and that said Resolution was
adopted by the following votes to wit:

AYES:	Mayor	Quintero,	Mayor	Pro	Tem Velasco, Councilmember Gomez,

Councilmember Macias and Councilmember Martinez

■ NOES:	None

^ABSTAIN:	None

ABSENT:	None



ity Clerk

5