RESOLUTION NO. 2017-1

A RESOLUTION OF THE BLUE LAKE FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT
CALLING A SPECIAL ELECTION FOR SUBMISSION TO THE VOTERS OF
THE DISTRICT AN ORDINANCE ADJUSTING THE RATE OF A FIRE
PROTECTION SPECIAL TAX, AND REQUESTING THE SPECIAL
ELECTION BE CONSOLIDATED WITH THE UNIFORM DISTRICT
ELECTION TO BE HELD ON NOVEMBER 7,2017

WHEREAS, Government Code Section 53978 and Article XIII A of the California Constitution
authorizes the Blue Lake Fire Protection District (“District”) to determine and levy a special tax
for fire protection, rescue, and emergency medical services; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Ordinance No. 99-1, approved by the qualified voters of the District on
March 7, 2000, the District currently imposes a fire protection special tax of $9 per unit of
benefit to provide fire protection, rescue, and emergency medical services; and

WHERAS, the District Board has determined that it is in the best interest of the community to
provide the appropriate level of fire protection, rescue, and emergency response services; that the
cost to maintain such adequate levels of service is beyond the reach of the District absent an
increase of the existing special tax; and that a special tax increase is therefore necessary for
public protection and public safety; and

WHEREAS, all special taxes which are imposed, extended or increased require two-thirds voter
approval in accordance with Proposition 218 requirements; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the California Elections Code, the District Board desires to place a
special tax measure on the consolidated district election on Tuesday, November 7, 2017, for the
purpose of submitting Ordinance No. 2017-1 to the qualified voters of the District, thereby
adjusting the rate of the existing fire protection special tax in order to continue providing quality
fire protection, rescue, and emergency response services; and

WHEREAS, Sections 9160 and 9313 of the Elections Code authorize the filing of an impartial
analysis, and Section 9600 et seq. of said code authorizes the filing of written arguments for or
against any ballot proposition and rebuttal arguments.

NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Directors of the Blue Lake Fire
Protection District as follows:

SECTION 1. The foregoing findings are true and correct:

It’s been nearly 18 years since the $9 per unit of benefit parcel tax was approved by voters. Since
this time, the community of Blue Lake has grown and changed with the times and the Blue Lake
Volunteer Fire Department can’t keep up with the emergency response needs of the community
at the current 18-year old tax rate. All aspects of the fire department’s operations have seen a
large increase in cost during this time. Call volume has increased as well as the number of

retirement age community members needing special and increased medical care. The District is
proposing a special tax increase to meet current department needs including the cost of
maintaining current staffing levels, making station repairs and renovations, and replacing aging
apparatus and equipment. The tax would be collected in the same manner and subject to the same
penalty as other taxes collected by Humboldt County on behalf of the District, and the effective
date would begin with the 2018-19 fiscal year.

SECTION 2. Pursuant to Elections Code Section 12001 and Government Code Section 53978,
an election is hereby called and ordered to be held within the District on November 7th, 2017, for
the purpose of submitting the following question to the qualified voters of the District:

Measure , Blue Lake Fire Protection District Special Tax Measure. To ensure ongoing fire protection, rescue, and emergency medical services for our community, including the cost of maintaining current staffing levels, making station	YES	
repairs and renovations, and replacing aging apparatus and equipment, shall Blue Lake Fire Protection District’s voter- approved special tax be increased in accordance with Ordinance No. 2017-1?	NO	

SECTION 3. The proposed measure shall be as set forth in Exhibit “A” to this Resolution and
such attachment is hereby incorporated by reference into this Resolution.

SECTION 4. Pursuant to Elections Code Section 10400 et seq., the election called by this
resolution is requested to be consolidated with the uniform district election to be held on
November 7th, 2017.

SECTION 5. The District recognizes that additional costs will be incurred by the County by
reason of providing election services and agrees to reimburse the County for such costs.

PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED this 26th day of June, 2017, by the following vote:

AYES:

NOES:

ABSENT:

ATTEST:

Jackson, Jones, Kindred, Shull, and Anderson
None
None

Rod Anderson, Board Chair
Blue Lake Fire Protection District

Terri StdneHarger, Board Secret^
Blue Lake Fire Protection District

ORDINANCE NO. 2017-1

Exhibit A

AN ORDINANCE OF THE BLUE LAKE FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT
ADJUSTING THE RATE OF A FIRE PROTECTION SPECIAL TAX IN ORDER
TO CONTINUE TO PROVIDE QUALITY LOCAL FIRE PROTECTION,
RESCUE, AND EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES

The Board of Commissioners of the Blue Lake Fire Protection District hereby ordains as follows:

SECTION 1. Authority. Pursuant to the authority of Government Code Section 53978 and
Article XIII A of the California Constitution, this Ordinance, if passed by two-thirds voter
approval, would increase the Blue Lake Fire Protection District’s existing voter-approved special
tax levied for fire protection, rescue, and emergency medical services and would supersede the
existing special tax rate of $9 per unit of benefit approved by qualified voters of the District in
2000 (Ordinance No. 99-1).

SECTION 2. Purpose and Intent. The proceeds from this special tax shall be used solely for
the purpose of providing fire protection, rescue, and emergency medical services within the
District, and for any responses outside of the District under automatic/mutual aid agreements
with other fire or emergency service agencies. In particular, the special tax will be used to
maintain and improve the current level of community-based fire protection services provided by
the Blue Lake Volunteer Fire Department. This includes annual budget support to help expand
volunteer recruitment and retention programs, maintain current fire station staffing, and provide
for adequate firefighting equipment, apparatus, and necessary capital improvements, consistent
with the needs of the residents of the District and the Fire Protection District Law of 1987, with
emphasis on mandated and statutory requirements for personnel and equipment safety.

SECTION 3. Special Tax Rate. Beginning with the 2018-19 fiscal year, the special tax shall be
levied at flat rates based on the use of each taxable parcel of real property, in accordance with the
schedule below:

Parcel Use Category

Total Annual Charge
2018-19 (base year)

A.	Vacant/Unimproved:

B.	Single-Family Residential:

C.	Rural Residential/Improved:

D.	Multi-Family Residential (2-4 units):

E.	Multi-Family Residential (5+ units):

F.	Commercial:

G.	Industrial:

$75 per year
$125 per year
$175 per year
$250 per year
$300 per year
$300 per year
$400 per year

A.	Vacant/Unimproved: Any vacant land or unimproved property.

B.	Single-Family Residential: A dwelling unit designed for occupancy by one household,
located on a single parcel that does not contain any other dwelling unit (except an
accessory dwelling unit, where permitted).

C.	Rural Residential/Improved: Low density residential or agricultural structures that
generally rely upon onsite water systems, requiring the use of trucked-in water for fire
suppression.

D.	Multi-Family Residential (2-4 units): 2 to 4 dwelling units within a single building, or
structures on a parcel. Types of multiple-unit dwellings include duplexes, apartments,
condominiums, and bed and breakfasts.

E.	Multi-Family Residential (5+ units): 5 or more dwelling units within a single building,
or structures on a parcel. Types of multiple-unit dwellings include apartments,
condominiums, bed and breakfasts, and manufactured home park developments.

F.	Commercial: Commercial or institutional uses including but not limited to stores and
retail businesses, offices, restaurants and bars, service stations, auto repair, hotels, bed
and breakfast, day care facilities, professional business parks, and similar uses.

G.	Industrial: Industrial uses including but not limited to manufacturing, packaging,
shipping, recycling, industrial parks, wood products, energy production, and similar uses.

SECTION 4. Exempt Properties. The special tax shall not be imposed upon a federal or state
governmental agency or other local public agency pursuant to Government Code Section 53978.

SECTION 5. Appeals. Any property owner may appeal any determination by the District
concerning the nature of the use of the property or the calculation of the amount of the tax by
filing a written appeal with the District. Any such appeal shall be filed by December 1st of the
calendar year for which the tax is levied. The appeal shall contain a statement by the property
owner as to the nature and basis for the appeal in accordance with the District's appeal procedure.

SECTION 6. Method of Collection. On or about July 1st of each year, but in any event in
sufficient time to include the levy of the special tax on the County's secured tax roll, the District
shall determine the use category and related tax amount representing each parcel of real property
within the District subject to the special tax. Parcels subject to levy shall be determined based
upon the records of the Humboldt County Assessor or, in lieu thereof, upon such other reliable
public records available to the District.

The special tax shall be collected in the same manner and subject to the same penalty as, or with,
other taxes fixed and collected by Humboldt County on behalf of the Blue Lake Fire Protection
District. The County of Humboldt may deduct reasonable expenses incurred for such service
before remitting the balance to the District.

SECTION 7. Special Account. Upon receipt of the special taxes the District shall cause same to
be deposited in a special tax account or such other account established by the District which
allows the District to properly account for the special taxes in compliance with the provisions of

Government Code Section 50075.1. Funds deposited into this account cannot be used for any
other purpose than those outlined in Section 2 of this Ordinance.

SECTION 8. Annual Report. In accordance with Government Code Section 50075.3, the
District's Fire Chief, as the chief fiscal officer of the District, shall file a report with the District
Board at least once a year. The annual report shall contain the following: (a) the amount of funds
collected and expended; and (b) the status of any project required or authorized to be funded with
the proceeds of the special tax.

SECTION 9. Severability. If any part of this Ordinance is held to be invalid for any reason,
such decision shall not affect the remaining portion of this Ordinance.

SECTION 10. Effective Date. This Ordinance shall be effective only at such time as the District
Board has declared that the Ordinance has been approved by two-thirds of the voters voting at an
election to be held on November 7, 2017. Should this Ordinance not be approved, Ordinance No.
99-1 (approved by voters on March 7, 2000) will remain in full force and effect. Notwithstanding
the above, if this Ordinance is approved, the special tax shall be collected at the rates established
by this Ordinance beginning with the 2018-19 fiscal year until repealed.

SECTION 11. Certification. The District Secretary shall certify to the passage and adoption of
this Ordinance and shall cause a copy of the full text of the Ordinance to be posted.

PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED this 26th day of June, 2017, by the following vote:



I, Terri Stonebarger, Secretary of the Blue Lake Fire Protection District DO HEREBY
CERTIFY that the foregoing Ordinance was duly passed, approved and adopted by the Board of
Fire Commissioners of the Blue Lake Fire Protection District on the 26th day of June, 2017.

AYES:	Jackson,	Jones,	Kindred,	Shull, and	Anderson

NOES:	None

ABSENT:	None

Rodney Anderson, Board Chair
Blue Lake Fire Protection District

ATTEST: