

1)01 BMBARGADERO DEb MAR. 18b* VISTA. G* 1)3117
^UK'W.ivparks.orti 803-U08-2017 FAX 008-2821)

Board of Directors

Pegeen Soutar
Chairperson

Jacob Lebell
Vice Chair

Paola Dela Cruz
Director

Carlos Lopez
Director

Daniel Torres
Director

District Staff

Rodney Could
General Manager

Angela Kamm
Executive Secretary

District Clerk
Vacant

Fiscal Officer
Olivia Rojas

Anne E. Aziz
Recreation
Coordinator

Adam Porte
Adopt-A-Block
Supervisor

“MORE THAN
JUST PARKS"

January 3, 2017

Santa Barbara County Clerk-Recorder
1100 Anacapa St.

Santa Barbara, CA 93101

To Whom It May Concern:

Enclosed please find the original Resolution number 160811-002 and 7 copies from
the Board of Directors of the Isla Vista Recreation and Park District. Also enclosed is
the completed Request for Election Services form.

We are requesting this information and request be docketed for inclusion in the
January 17, 2017 agenda of the Board of Supervisors Meeting.

Please let me know if you need additional information from me prior to the January
17 meeting.

Thank you,

Rodney Gould

General Manger/Acting Board Secretary

Isla Vista Recreation and Park District

961 Embarcadero Del Mar

Isla Vista, CA 93117

805-968-2017

rgould@ivparks.org

cc: County Elections

Districts Request for Special Election Services

This checklist has been prepared to clarity the roles of the County Elections Office and the district in conducting the
district’s special election and to act as an official agreement for reimbursement of costs for county services in
accordance with the County billing policy on elections. This “Request for Election Services” form must be completed
and returned to the Elections Office prior to or at the time that the resolution is submitted to the Board of Supervisors,
pursuant to Elections Code 10403 or 10002.

The County Elections Official will:

1.	Prepare a calendar of events and due dates for the election.

2.	Be responsible for the procedures relative to the district’s ballot measures including publishing the “Notice of
Election” and the “Notice to Submit Arguments”; accepting and selecting direct arguments; processing rebuttal
arguments; preparing the impartial analysis; the 10-Day public exam period and all other related legal
requirements.

3.	Determine all argument information, e.g. deadline dates, maximum number of words, format, etc.

4.	Arrange for the Spanish translation of all materials provided to the voters.

5.	Prepare and arrange for the printing of sample ballot information and official ballots.

6.	Manage the mailed ballot process.

7.	Tally votes at the County Elections Office.

8.	Conduct election canvass procedures.

9.	Provide a copy of the election certification and final results.

10.	Prepare and mail invoice to jurisdiction for costs of the election.

The County Elections Officials will take all actions necessary to properly and lawfully conduct the election.

The undersigned requests the election services previously identified to be performed by the County Elections Official
for the:

Afap'	&U	fccrcq'ft'iA'ntf /a*£ d

Date and Name of Election

Additionally, pursuant to Elections Code 10002, the undersigned agrees to reimburse the County the full cost of
services provided, including a 10% indirect cost rate applied to the full direct costs, upon presentation of an invoice and
to pay within 30 days of the invoice date. Failure to pay within 30 days will result in an interest charge at the County’s
pooled rate commencing from the date of the election.

Signed:	_____

Title:	_____

District Name:



Date:

Telephone:

‘Jxm/a/y 3, -2-4/7

Please deliver completed form with a copy of your resolution by fax to (805) 568-2209, or by mail or personal delivery
to:

MAIL

Santa Barbara County Elections

P. O. Box 61510

Santa Barbara, CA 93160-1510

DELIVERY

Santa Barbara County Elections
4440-A Calle Real
Santa Barbara

If you have questions please contact Renee Bischof or Heather McCaslin at
(805) 696-8963 or 696-8953.

RESOLUTION NO. 160811-002

ISLA VISTA RECREATION AND PARK DISTRICT

RESOLUTION OF THE ISLA VISTA RECREATION AND PARK DISTRICT
PROPOSING AND CALLING AN ELECTION FOR APPROVAL OF A SPECIAL
TAX TO FINANCE PARK MAINTENANCE AND IMPROVEMENTS AND
RECREATION AND CULTURAL PROGRAMING, AND REQUESTING THE
ELECTION OCCUR ON MAY 9, 2017

WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of the Isla Vista Recreation and Park District (the
“District”-) finds that current and anticipated revenues of the District are insufficient to
provide the level of park maintenance, park improvements, and increased recreation and
cultural activities desired by the community. The Board of Directors further finds that the
costs of park maintenance and improvements, and increased recreation and cultural
programing can be paid for by means of a special tax levied as provided herein;

WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of the District proposes, and wishes for District
residents to consider, financing park maintenance and improvements and increased recreation
and cultural programming through a special tax on each parcel within the boundaries of the
District;

WHEREAS, the Isla Vista Recreation and Park District, Consolidated Reassessment
District NO. 99-1 Limited Obligation Refunding Bonds currently paid by the taxpayers of the
District will be retired on September 2, 2017;

WHEREAS, the District is authorized pursuant to Section 50075 et seq. of the
Government Code and Article XIII-A of the California Constitution to levy the proposed
parcel tax, subject to approval by two-thirds of the voters voting in a special election;

WHEREAS, the Board of Directors has determined it is in the best interest of the
District and its residents to submit to the voters the proposed parcel tax for District parks,
recreation and cultural facilities and services, as further specified in this Resolution;

WHEREAS, if approved by the voters, special tax revenues will be deposited into the
2017 Special Tax Proceeds Fund with a minimum 50% used exclusively for infrastructure
and capital improvements, and the balance used for maintenance and recreation and cultural
programs;

WHEREAS, to facilitate the election on the tax ballot measure and to implement the .
tax upon requisite voter approval, it is necessary to (i) approve the language of a tax ballot
measure and an accompanying ballot question; (ii) request that the Santa Barbara County
Board of Supervisors to call for a special mail ballot election to consider the tax measure on
May 9, 2017 (iii) submit this Resolution to the County Elections Office along with a form
requesting election services; and (iv) increase the District’s appropriation limit;

WHEREAS, District staff have prepared a special tax measure for the foregoing
purposes.

NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS DETERMINED AND ORDERED as follows:

Section 1.	Recitals.

This Board hereby finds and determines that the foregoing recitals are true and correct.

Section 2.	Purpose of Resolution and	Measure.

It is the purpose of this Resolution to place a special tax measure (the “Measure”)
before the voters of the District to provide funds for maintenance and improvement of parks, and
increased recreation and cultural programs. If approved by the voters and the Board of Directors
as provided herein, the tax will be adopted. As further provided herein, proceeds of the special
tax shall be used only for the following purposes:

(a)	To fund recycled water, and other infrastructure and capital improvements, safety and
recreational lighting infrastructure, improvement of public park lands and facilities, and
operations and maintenance within the boundaries of the District. Where possible it will
be used to leverage matching grants.

(b)	To fund the development, implementation and operation of additional recreation and
cultural and programs for children and adults.

Section 3.	Call for Election.

Pursuant to the relevant sections of the Government Code, the Public Resources Code, and the
California Constitution, the Board hereby calls for an election within the boundaries of the
District to be held on Tuesday, May 9, 2017, for the purpose of voting the Measure, which will
be presented to voters as a ballot question in substantially the form attached hereto as Exhibit A.
containing the question of whether the District shall impose a special tax for the purposes stated
therein. In addition, the full text of the Measure (“Full Ballot Text”) shall appear in the ballot
pamphlet in substantially the form attached hereto as Exhibits.

Section 4.	Collection of the Tax.

(a)	Pursuant to provisions of the Full Ballot Text, beginning Nov 1, 2017, if adopted by
voters, the special tax shall be collected by the tax collector of the County of Santa
Barbara at the same time as and along with, and shall be subject to the same interest,
penalties, and costs, as general ad valorem property taxes. The special tax shall be
collected in the same manner as ad valorem property taxes. Failure to pay on or before
the delinquency date will result in the imposition of penalties, interest, and costs, in the
same manner as if the taxes were ad valorem property taxes.

(b)	The special taxes imposed under this Resolution shall constitute a lien on real property in
accordance with the Revenue and Taxation Code §2187, and shall have the same effect as
if it were an ad valorem real property tax until fully paid. For fiscal year 2016-2017, the
lien shall attach at 12:01 a.m. on May 10, 2017; and for the subsequent 9 years, the lien
shall attach at 12:01 a.m. on March 1, preceding the fiscal year for which the taxes are
levied. This proposed special tax will expire in 2028.

(c)	The County of Santa Barbara shall be entitled to deduct the reasonable costs of collection
and administration of the special tax, before remitting the tax revenues collected to the
District.

Section 5. Authority for Ordering Election.

The authority for ordering the election is contained in the Public Resources Code, Elections
Code, Government Code, and California Constitution.

Section 6.	Resolution to County Officials.

The Secretary of the Board is hereby directed to cause this original signed Resolution, along with
eight copies, to be delivered to the Clerk of the Board of Supervisors of Santa Barbara County,
and to cause a copy of this Resolution to be filed with the Santa Barbara County Elections Office
along with a Request for Election Services form, not later than December 28, 2016.

Section 7.	Conduct of Election.

(a)	Request to County Officials. Pursuant to state law, the Board of
Supervisors, Registrar of Voters and Elections Division are requested to take all steps to hold the
election on May 9, 2017, in accordance with law and this Resolution.

(b)	Voter Pamphlet. The Registrar of Voters is hereby requested to reprint
the Full Ballot Text in substantially the form attached hereto as Exhibit B in the voter
information pamphlet to be distributed to voters pursuant to the Elections Code. In the event the
Full Ballot Text will not be reprinted in the voter information pamphlet in its entirety, the
Registrar is hereby requested to print, immediately below the impartial analysis of the Measure,
in no less than 10-point boldface type, a legend substantially as follows:

“The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure__. If

you desire a copy of the Measure, please call the Santa Barbara
County Registrar of Voters at (805) 568-2200 and a copy will be
mailed at no cost to you.”

(c)	Notice of Election. Notice of said special tax election shall be given as
provided by law.

(d)	Canvass and Declaration of Results. The returns of the special tax
election shall be determined and signed by the election officers and shall be by them deposited
with the Registrar of Voters, together with the ballots cast and said election, and the Board of
Supervisors shall canvass said returns or cause said returns to be canvassed, and shall declare the
results of said election at the times and in the manner as provided by law.

(e)	Cost of Election. The District will reimburse the County for costs
associated with the election as required by law.

Section S.	Appropriations Limit.

The Board shall provide in each year for an increase in the District’s appropriations limit as shall
be necessary to ensure that the proceeds of the special tax may be spent for its authorized
purposes.

Section 9.	Ballot Arguments.

(a)	The Board of Directors, or any member of the Board as authorized by the Board, or any
individual voter who is eligible to vote on the measure, or bona-fide association of
citizens, or any combination of such voters and associations, may file a written argument
for or against the measure. The argument shall not exceed 300 words in length. The
Registrar of the Voters shall cause an argument for and against the measures to be
printed, and shall cause a copy of both arguments to be enclosed with each sample ballot.
The following statement shall be printed on the front cover, or if none, on the heading of
the first page of the printed argument:

“Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed
Measure, are the opinions of the authors.”

(b)	Arguments for and against the Measure must be submitted to the Registrar of Voters,
Elections Division, no later than, nor earlier than, the dates set forth by the Registrar of
Voters. The Secretary of the District shall post, in at least three prominent places in the
District where public notices are customarily posted, a notice inviting arguments for and
against the Measure. If more than one argument for, or more than one argument against
the Measure is submitted to the Registrar of Voters within the time allowed, the Registrar
of Voters shall select one of the arguments in favor of, or one of the arguments in
opposition to the Measure, as applicable, for printing and distribution to the voters. In
selecting the argument, the Registrar of Voters shall give preferences and priority, in the
order named, to the arguments of the following:

1.	The Board or a member or members of the Board authorized by the
Board;

2.	Bona-fide associations of citizens;

3.	Individual voters who are eligible to vote on the Measure.

(c) When the Registrar of Voters has selected the arguments for, and the arguments in
opposition to the Measure, the Registrar of Voters shall send copies of the argument in
favor of the Measure to the authors of the argument in opposition, and copies of the
argument in opposition to the Measure, to the authors of the argument in favor. The
authors may prepare and submit rebuttal arguments, which must be filed with the
Registrar of Voters, Elections Division, not later or earlier than the dates set by the
Registrar of Voters.

Section 10. Official Actions.

The President of the Board or its designees are hereby authorized to execute any other document
and to perform all acts necessary to place the Measure on the ballot, including making alterations
to the Measure and Full Ballot Text stated in Exhibits A and B hereto, and to this Resolution to
comply with requirements of law and election officials or which are, in the judgment of the
Board, in the best interests of the District.

Section 11. Effective Date.

This Resolution shall take effect from and after its adoption.

PASSED AND ADOPTED at the Regular Meeting of the Board of Directors of the Isla Vista
Recreation and Park District on this 14th day of December, 2016, by the following vote.

AYES:

DIRECTOR SOUTAR
DIRECTOR LEBELL

DIRECTOR DELA CRUZ

DIRECTOR LOPEZ
DIRECTOR TORRES

NOES:

N/A

Attest:

Rodney Gould, General Manager/Secretary

EXHIBIT A

Summary of Measure

The Measure shall be summarized in the following form, and the Santa Barbara County Registrar
of Voters is requested to cause this summary of the Measure to appear on the ballot:

ISLA VISTA RECREATION AND PARK DISTRICT SPECIAL TAX MEASURE
FOR CAPITAL PROJECTS, PARK IMPROVEMENTS,
RECREATION AND CULTURAL PROGRAMING

Shall a parcel tax be authorized to fund capital projects in parks, facility repairs, and recreation
and cultural programming? Projects could include safety lighting, recycled water infrastructure
and improvements to parklands. The annual fixed rate tax of $.07185 per square foot for
non-residential units and $28.75 per bedroom would provide approximately $256,358.00
per year for ten years.

EXHIBIT B
FULL BALLOT TEXT

MEASURE_

[letter designation to be assigned by Santa Barbara County]

ISLA VISTA RECREATION AND PARK DISTRICT
ISLA VISTA RECREATION AND PARK DISTRICT 2016 SPECIAL TAX MEASURE

1.	Title and Purpose.

This measure shall be known as the “Isla Vista Recreation and Park District 2017 Special
Tax Measure” (“Measure”). The revenues raised by the Measure are to be used to
improve the level of park maintenance, park improvements, and increased recreation and
cultural activities provided by the Isla Vista Recreation and Park District (“District”).

2.	Allocation of Funds.

Available Revenues raised by the levy of the tax authorized by the Measure are to be
allocated to the following purposes and shall be deposited into a separate account for the
District, in accordance with Government Code Section 50075.1, and shall be expended
according to a plan developed annually, and approved and adopted by the Isla Vista
Recreation and Park District Board of Directors (the “Board”). This plan shall insure a
minimum of 50% of the funds are used for Capital Projects and improvements to
infrastructure.

3.	Definition of Purposes.

The Available Revenues shall be used for the following purposes:

A.	To fund proposed capital projects that may include recycled water infrastructure,
safety and recreational lighting infrastructure, repair and improvements to public
park lands and facilities, and operations and maintenance within the boundaries of the
District;

B.	To fund the development and operation, of recreation and cultural programs for
adults and children; and

C.	To set aside as reserves, so long as the funds are planned for use within the term of
the Measure and in a manner consistent with the allocations provided in the Measure.

4.	Amount and Basis of Tax.

This special tax shall authorize the District to levy a special tax as follows:

A.	“Dwelling Units”: $28.75 per Bedroom on a parcel; and

B.	“Non-Residential Units”: $0.7185 per square foot.

This special tax shall begin on November 1, 2017 and continue for a period of 10 years.

This special tax is estimated to raise $256,348.00 in annual local funding for the District
based on the amount of the tax for the 2017-18 tax year. The amount of annual local
funding raised by this special tax will vary from year-to-year due to a number of factors,

including changes in the number of parcels subject to the levy. Any proceeds from this
special tax not spent during those fiscal years may be spent on all authorized purposes
until exhausted.

5.	Collection and Administration.

The Special Tax shall constitute a lien on real property in accordance with California
Revenue and Taxation Code Section 2187. For fiscal year 2016-17, the lien shall attach
at 12:01 a.m. on May 10, 2017 and for subsequent years the lien shall attach at 12:01 a.m.
on March 1 preceding the fiscal year for which the taxes are levied. The Special Tax
shall be collected by the tax collector for the County of Santa Barbara at the same time
and shall be subject to the same interest, penalties, and costs as general ad valorem
property taxes. The Special Tax on each parcel shall be billed on the secured tax roll
bills, but may be transferred to the unsecured tax roll in accordance with the laws, rules
and procedures applicable to general ad valorem property taxes. Failure to pay on or
before the delinquency date shall result in the imposition of penalties, interest, and costs
in the same manner as if the taxes were general ad valorem property taxes. The County
of Santa Barbara shall be entitled to deduct the reasonable costs of collection and
administration of the Special Tax before remitting the tax revenues collected to the
District.

6.	Exemption.

An exemption from this Special Tax may be granted annually upon application on any of
the following:

A. Any Dwelling Unit or Non-Residential Unit the District is prohibited by law from
levying the Special Tax.

7.	Claims and Exemption Procedures.

With respect to all general property tax matters within its jurisdiction, the County of
Santa Barbara Treasurer-Assessor shall make all final determinations of tax exemption or
relief for any reason, and that decision shall be final and binding. With respect to matters
specific to this Special Tax, within ten (10) days after the tax bills containing the Special
Tax have been mailed, the governing body of the District shall cause a notice of right to
appeal to be published once a week for two consecutive weeks in a newspaper of general
circulation within the District. Such notice shall be titled “Notice of Appeal Procedure
for Isla Vista Recreation and Park District 2017 Special Tax”, and shall contain to
procedures by which any taxpayer subject to the Special Tax may appeal the imposition
of said Special Tax. The procedures described therein, and any additional procedures
established by the District, shall be the exclusive claims procedures for claimants seeking
an exemption, refund, reduction, or re-computation of this Special Tax. The failure of the
District to provide such notice of appeal shall not affect the validity of any tax levied
hereunder.

8.	Appropriations Limit.

Pursuant to California Constitution Article XIIIB and applicable laws, the appropriations
limit for the District will be adjusted periodically by the aggregate sum collected by levy
of this Special Tax.

9.	Definitions.

The following definitions shall apply throughout this Measure:

A.	“Available Revenues” means the amount of money resulting from the levy of this
Special Tax authorized by this Measure after deduction of authorized charges for
services provided by the County of Santa Barbara for the preparation and collection
of the tax, legal and audit fees.

B.	“Dwelling Unit” means a space within a building, located on a parcel, used or
designed as a separate living space for one or a small group of persons, including but
not limited to, a room or suite in fraternities, sororities, dormitories, rooming houses
or other congregate living facilities.

C.	“Bedroom” means a room available for sleeping within a Dwelling Unit.

D.	“Non-Residential Building” means any building, or portion thereof, not containing a
Dwelling Unit, located on a Parcel.

E.	“Non-Residential Unit” means a portion of a Non-Residential Building used for a
discrete business, service, or other non-residential use.

F.	“Parcel” means the land designated by an assessor’s parcel map and parcel number
and carried on the secured property tax roll of the County of Santa Barbara. For
purposes of this Measure, Parcel does not include any land located outside the
boundaries of the District.

10.	Savings Clause.

The provisions of this Measure shall not apply to any person, association, or corporation
or to any property as to whom or which is beyond the power of the District to impose the
Special Tax. The board of directors of the District hereby declares, and the voters by
approving this Measure concur, that every sentence, clause, section, and part of this
Measure has independent value and the Board and the voters would have adopted each
provision hereof regardless of every other provision hereof. If any sentence, clause,
section, or part of this Measure or any tax against any individual or and of the several
groups specified herein is found unconstitutional, illegal, or invalid, such
unconstitutionality, illegality, or invalidity shall effect only such clause, sentence or part
of this Measure and shall not affect or impair any of the remaining provisions, sentences,
clauses, sections, or other parts of this Measure. It is hereby declared to be the intention
of the Board and of the electorate that this Measure would have been adopted had such
unconstitutional, illegal, or invalid sentence, clause, section, or part thereof, not been
included.

11.	Incorporation.

In the event the territory of the District is included within an incorporated city that
assumes the functions of the District, the Special Tax will continue to be levied by the
governing body of the city, for the purpose and as required by this Measure and shall be
applicable to all parcels of land within the boundaries of the District at the time of
incorporation.

12.	Change of Organization.

In the event of a reorganization, annexation, or detachment affecting the District, the
Special Tax shall remain in effect and shall be applicable to all parcels within the
boundaries of the District as such boundaries exist at that time.