RESOLUTION NO. 03-17-2682

M|

u-Tigia

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CALIFORNIA CITY,
CALIFORNIA CALLING A SPECIAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION TO BE HELD ON TUESDAY,
JUNE 6, 2017 FOR THE PURPOSE OF SUBMITTING A SPECIAL PARCEL TAX MEASURE
TO THE VOTERS OF THE CITY; REQUESTING THE ASSISTANCE OF THE COUNTY OF
KERN IN CONNECTION WITH THAT ELECTION AND CONSOLIDATING THAT
ELECTION WITH ANY OTHER ELECTIONS HELD ON THAT DATE

WHEREAS, in 2007 the voters of the City of California City approved a special parcel tax on all
property in the City; and

WHEREAS, in 2012, following the sunset of the special parcel tax approved in 2007, the voters
again approved a special parcel tax; and

WHEREAS, the parcel tax approved in 2012 will sunset as of tax year 2017-18; and

WHEREAS, the City’s general tax revenues remain insufficient to fully fund all City services
unless some services are funded by a special tax; and

WHEREAS, a continuation of the special parcel tax for an additional six-year period will help the
City to continue to provide essential public safety services; and

WHEREAS, the City Council desires to submit a special parcel tax measure to the voters of the
City at a Special Municipal Election to be held on Tuesday, June 6, 2017 and to be consolidated with any
countywide election to be held on that date; and

WHEREAS, the proposed tax (the “Special Parcel Tax”) is more completely described in the
ordinance attached hereto as Attachment “A” and incorporated herein by reference (the “Tax Ordinance”);
and

WHEREAS, this resolution was adopted following a public hearing that was noticed as required
by Section 54956 of the Government Code and applicable law.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
CALIFORNIA CITY AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1. Recitals. The City Council hereby finds and determines that the foregoing recitals are
true and correct.

Section 2. Proposal. Pursuant to Section 50077 of the Government Code, the City Council hereby
proposes the Special Parcel Tax.

Section 3. Election. The City Council hereby calls a Special Municipal Election for Tuesday,
June 6, 2017 (the “Election”) and orders, pursuant to Section 9222 of the Elections Code, that the Tax
Ordinance be submitted to the voters at that election.

Section 4. Ballot Question. The question submitted by Section 3 of this Resolutions shall appear
on the ballot as follows:

B-l

In order to fund police, fire, and code enforcement services,		
shall the existing special parcel tax be extended for an additional three	YES	
years (through tax year 2020-2021) at a rate not to exceed the existing		
rate of $150 per lot or parcel, generating approximately $7.5 Million		
in annual funding for public safety?	NO	

Section 5. Approval. Pursuant to Section 4 of Article XIII A of the Constitution, this measure
requires approval by a two-thirds vote of those casting ballots on the measure.

Section 6. Consolidation. Pursuant Section 10400 et seq. of the Elections Code, the Board of
Supervisors of Kern County is requested to consolidate the Election with other elections held on the same
day in the same territory or in the territory that is in part the same.

Section 7. Canvass. The Board of Supervisors is authorized to canvass the returns of the Election
pursuant to Section 10411 of the Elections Code.

Section 8. Conduct of Election. Pursuant to Section 10002 of the Elections Code, the Board of
Supervisors is requested to permit the County Clerk to render all services specified by Section 10418 of
the Elections Code relating to the election, for which services the City agrees to reimburse the County, in
accordance with current County pro-rations and allocation procedures.

Section 9. Filing with County. The City Clerk shall file a certified copy of this Resolution with
the County Clerk.

Section 10. Analysis and Argument. The City Attorney shall prepare an impartial analysis of
the measure. The argument shall be included with other ballot materials. Any person may prepare an
argument against the measure not exceeding 300 words in length. If more than one argument is submitted
against the measure, the City Clerk shall select the argument against the measure to be included with the
ballot materials. Rebuttal arguments shall be permitted.

APPROVED and ADOPTED this 7th day of March, 2017.

(4t4u>



ifer Wood, Mayor

ATTEST:

B-2

EXHIBIT A

ORDINANCE NO.__________

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF CALIFORNIA CITY, CALIFORNIA ADDING DIVISION
5 (SPECIAL PARCEL TAX) TO ARTICLE 1 OF CHAPTER 2 OF TITLE 3 OF THE
CALIFORNIA CITY MUNICIPAL CODE

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF CALIFORNIA CITY DO ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1. Adoption of Special Parcel Tax. Division 5 is hereby added to Article 1 of Chapter
2 of Title 3 of the California City Municipal Code to read as follows:

DIVISION 5—Special Parcel Tax

Section 3-2.1.501. Short Title.

This Division may be referenced to as the California City Special Tax Ordinance of 2017.

Section 3-2.1.502. Tax Levied.

An annual special tax is hereby levied by the City on all lots and parcels within the
boundaries of the City other than lots and parcels that (i) are exempt from this tax pursuant to the
Constitution or laws of the United States or of the Constitution or laws of the State of California
or (ii) are exempt from the ad valorem property tax or have an ad valorem property tax liability of
zero.

Section 3-2.1.503. Maximum Rate.

The maximum rate of the tax shall be $150 per lot or parcel.

Section 3-2.1.504. Annual Proceedings.

The City Council is authorized to determine for each tax year, by ordinance or resolution, the tax
levied against each lot or parcel. The tax for a tax year shall be calculated based on a single flat
rate per lot or parcel, which rate shall not exceed the maximum rate set forth in Section 3-2.1.503.
The ordinance or resolution shall list each taxed lot or parcel by assessor’s parcel number. The
ordinance or resolution shall constitute the official record of the assessment of the special tax, and
a copy thereof, together with any other pertinent data, shall be transmitted to the appropriate county
officials to facilitate collection of the tax.

Section 3-2.1.505. Collection.

The tax shall be collected by the County of Kern in the same manner and subject to the same
penalty and procedure as ad valorem property taxes collected by the county. Unpaid taxes shall
bear interest at the same rate as the rate for unpaid ad valorem property taxes until paid. The
county may deduct its reasonable costs incurred for the service before remittal of the balance to
the city.

B-3

Section 3-2.1.506. Use of Funds.

Proceeds of the tax shall be used only for (1) police operations, training and supplies, personnel,
equipment, law enforcement, dispatch, code enforcement, animal control, and facilities, (2) fire
prevention and suppression operations, training and supplies, firefighter and paramedic personnel,
equipment and facilities and (3) code enforcement services.

Section 3-2.1.507. Accountability.

The proceeds of the tax shall be deposited in a special account, to be created and maintained by
the City. For so long as proceeds of the tax remain unexpended, the Finance Director of the City
shall file an annual report with the City Council stating the amount of taxes collected, the amount
expended, and the purpose of the expenditures. Such annual report shall relate to the Fiscal Year
most recently ended, and may be incorporated into or filed with the annual budget, audit or other
appropriate routine report to the City Council.

Section 3-2.1.508. Duration.

The levy of tax shall commence with tax year 2018-19. The final levy of the tax shall be for tax
year 2020-21, unless the tax is extended by a vote of the people.

Section 3-2.1.509. Amendment.

The City Council may, by ordinance, amend, repeal, renumber or recodify any or all of the
provisions of this Section; provided, however, that no ordinance extending the tax beyond the dates
set forth in Section 3-2.1.508 or increasing the maximum rate of the tax shall be effective unless
submitted to, and approved by, the voters of the City as required pursuant to the applicable law at
the time of such action

Section 2. Prior Tax. Nothing in the Ordinance shall be construed to affect the City’s existing
authority to levy a parcel tax prior to tax year 2018-19.

Section 3. Severability. If, for any reason, any portion of this Ordinance is rendered or declared
invalid or unenforceable by a court or an administrative body of competent jurisdiction or by
reason of any preemptive legislation, the remaining portions of this Ordinance shall remain in full
force and effect.

This Ordinance was approved and adopted by the People of the City of California City at the City’s June
6, 2017 special municipal election.

Jennifer Wood, Mayor

ATTEST:

B-4

Denise Hilliker, City Clerk