Impartial Analysis by the Barstow City Attorney
Measure "J"

Measure "J" would adopt a transactions and use tax in the City of Barstow at the rate of one-
half cent for every dollar spent (or 0.5%). This kind of tax is often called a sales tax. The
proceeds of this tax would be placed in a special City fund to be used to support fire protection
and paramedic emergency response for the Barstow Fire Protection District, including salaries
and benefits for qualified firefighting and paramedic personnel, repayment of debts and the
repair and replacement of fire protection equipment.

The tax would be in addition to existing sales tax, and it would be levied on the sale or use of
tangible personal property sold at retail. Retailers collect the tax at the time of sale and remit
the funds to the State Board of Equalization, which administers the tax. Tax proceeds cannot be
confiscated by the state.

The Barstow City Council placed Measure "J" on the ballot. Because Measure "J" limits the
purposes for which the tax revenue can be used, it is a "special tax" requiring two-thirds voter
approval. If approved, the tax will remain in effect until amended or repealed by the voters, or
until the Barstow Fire Protection District is transferred to an agency outside the City of Barstow.

A "yes" vote is a vote in favor of authorizing the one-half percent transactions and use tax.

A "no" vote is a vote against authorizing the transaction and use tax.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Ordinance or Measure "J". If you desire a copy of
the proposed ordinance, please call the Barstow City Clerk at (760) 255-5122 and a copy will be
mailed to you at no cost.

Date:_________June	6,	2017

Rv: flTeteAa jf. rfii^kbmitk

Teresa L. Highsmith
Barstow City Attorney

FILED

JUL 2 7 2017

BY,

....1L_______ - DEPUTY

REGISTRAR OF VOTERS

176990.1

ORDINANCE NO. 952-2017

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF BARSTOW ENACTING A
TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX TO BE ADMINISTERED BY THE
STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION, UPON ADOPTION BY THE
VOTERS

The people of the City of Barstow do hereby ordain as follows;

Section 1. Chapter 3.33 is hereby added to Title 3 of the Barstow Municipal Code with the following
provisions:

Section 3.33.010. Tltta This chapter shall be known as the City of Barstow Transactions
and Use Tax Ordinance. The City of Barstow will hereinafter be called City. This chapter shall be
applicable in the incorporated territory of the City.

Section 3.33.020. Operative Date. “Operative Date” means the first day of the first calendar
quarter commencing more than 110 days after the adoption of this chapter by vote of the
electorate on November 7, 2017.

Section 3.33.030. Purpose. This chapter is adopted to achieve the following among other
purposes, and it shall be interpreted liberally in order to accomplish all of its lawful purposes:

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax to be applied throughout the entire territory of
the City to the fullest extent permitted by law and in accordance with the provisions of Part
1.6 (commencing with section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code and
section 7285.91 of Part 1.7 of Division 2, which authorizes the City to adopt this chapter if
two-thirds of the electors voting on the measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax
at an election called for that purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates provisions identical
to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California insofar as those
provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6
of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax and provides a
measure that can be administered and collected by the State Board of Equalization in a
manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and requires the least possible
deviation from, the existing statutory and administrative procedures followed by the State
Board of Equalization in administering and collecting the California State Sales and Use
Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax chapter that can be administered In a manner
that will be, to the greatest degree possible, consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting the
transactions and use taxes and, at the same time, minimize the burden of record keeping
upon persons subject to taxation under the provisions of this chapter.

E.	To provide transactions and use tax revenue to the City to be used to fund operating
expenses of the Barstow Fire Protection District, including but not limited to salaries and
benefits for personnel, debt repayment, purchase and maintenance of equipment, and
capital projects.

Section 3.33.040. Contract with the State. Prior to the Operative Date, the City shall
contract with the State Board of Equalization to perform all functions incident to the administration
and operation of this chapter; provided, that if the City shall not have contracted with the State
Board of Equalization prior to the Operative Date, it shall nevertheless so contract and in such a

176531.1

1

case the Operative Date shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter following the execution
of such a contract.

Section 3.33.050. Transactions Tax Rate. For the privilege of selling tangible personal
property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated territory of the City
at the rate of 0.5% of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible personal
property sold at retail within the territory of the City on and after the Operative Date of this chapter.

Section 3.33.060. Place of Sale. For the purposes of this chapter, all retail sales are
consummated at the place of business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is
delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for
delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery
charges, when such charges are subject to the state sales and use tax, regardless of the place to
which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the state or
has more than one place of business, the place or places at which the retail sales are
consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by
the State Board of Equalization.

Section 3.33.070. Use Tax Rate. An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or
other consumption in the City of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on and
after the Operative Date of this chapter for storage, use or other consumption in the territory of the
City at the rate of 0.5% of the sales price of the property. The sales price shall include delivery
charges when such charges are subject to state sales or use tax regardless of the place to which
delivery is made.

Section 3.33.080. Adoption of Provisions of State Law. Except as otherwise provided in
this chapter, and except insofar as they are inconsistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division
2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing with section
6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted, incorporated, and
made a part of this chapter as though fully set forth herein.

Section 3.33.090. Limitations on Adoption of State Law and Collection of Use Taxes.
In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the name
of the City shall be substituted. However, this substitution shall not be made when:

1.	The word “State" is used as a part of the title of the State Controller, State
Treasurer, State Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or the Constitution of the
State of California;

2.	The result of the substitution would require action to be taken by or against the
City or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by or against the
State Board of Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the
administration or operation of this chapter.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to, sections referring to the
exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the result of the substitution
would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from the tax in this chapter with respect to certain
sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property
which would not otherwise be exempt from the tax while such sales,
storage, use or other consumption remain subject to tax by the state
under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code; or

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other
consumption of tangible personal property which would not be subject to
tax by the state under the said provision of that code.

2

176531.1

4.	In sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711, 6715, 6737,
6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

B.	The word "City” shall be substituted for the word "State” in the phrase "retailer engaged in
business in this State” in section 6203 and in the definition of that phrase in section 6203.

Section 3.33.010. Permit Not Required. If a seller’s permit has been issued to a retailer
under section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional transactor’s permit shall not
be required by this chapter.

Section 3.33.110. Exemptions and Exclusions.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the use tax the
amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or by any city, city
and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax
Law or the amount of any state-administered transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax the gross
receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum products, to
operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the county in
which the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as
common carriers of persons or property under the authority of the laws of this
State, the United States, or any foreign government;

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the City, which is shipped to a point outside
the City pursuant to the contract of sale by delivery to such point by the retailer or
his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at
such point For the purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point outside the City
shall be satisfied:

a.	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject to
registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of
Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with
Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels
registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the
Vehicle Code by registration to an out-of-City address and by a
declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that
such address is, in fact, his or her principal place of residence; and

b.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of
business out-of-City and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by
the buyer, that the vehicle will be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to furnish the
property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the Operative
Date of this chapter.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such property,
for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the property for an
amount fixed by the lease prior to the Operative Date of this chapter.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, the sale or lease of
tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a
contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease
has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether
or not such right is exercised.

176531.1

3

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this chapter, the storage, use or other
consumption in this City of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a transactions tax
under any state-administered transactions and use tax ordinance;

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of aircraft and
used or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the use of such
aircraft as common carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation
under a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the
laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign government. This exemption
is in addition to the exemptions provided in sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of California;

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price pursuant to
a contract entered into prior to the Operative Date of this chapter;

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the tangible
personal property arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such
property for any period of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the
property for an amount fixed by a lease prior to the Operative Date of this
chapter.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, storage, use, or
other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power over,
tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a
contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease
has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether
or not such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in business in the City
shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible personal
property, unless the retailer ships or delivers the property into the City or
participates within the City in making the sale of the property, including, but not
limited to, soliciting or receiving the order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of
business of the retailer in the City or through any representative, agent,
canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the City under the authority of the
retailer.

7.	“A retailer engaged in business in the City” shall also include any retailer of any of
the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing
with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in
compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented
vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the
Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to collect use tax from any purchaser
who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the City.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this chapter may credit against that tax any
transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district imposing, or
retailer liable for, a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code with respect to the sale to the person of the property the storage, use or
other consumption of which is subject to the use tax.

Section 3.33.120. Amendments. All amendments subsequent to the Effective Date of this
chapter to Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes
and which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1,7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, shall automatically become adopted and part of this chapter; provided, however,
that no such amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this chapter.

176531 i

4

Section 3.33.130. Enjoining Collection Forbidden. No injunction or writ of mandate or
other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit, action or proceeding in any court against
the State or the City, or against any officer of the State or the City, to prevent or enjoin the
collection under this chapter, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any
tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.

Section 3.33.140. Severability. If any provision of this chapter or the application thereof to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the chapter or the application of such
provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

Section 3.33.150. Effective Date. This chapter relates to the levying and collecting of City
transactions and use taxes and shall take effect immediately.

Section 3.33.160. Discontinuation of Tax. If control over the Barstow Fire Protection
District is transferred from the City of Barstow to any other public agency, the taxes imposed by
this chapter shall be discontinued as of the date of that transfer.

Section 2. Execution. The Mayor shall sign and the City Clerk shall attest to the passage of this
Ordinance upon certification by the City Council of the results of the election approving this Ordinance.

176531.1

5

PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of Barstow, on

__________________________,	by	the	following	vote:

AYES:

NOES:

ABSENT:

Attest;	Julie Hackbarth-Mclntyre, Mayor
JoAnne Cousino, City Clerk	

I hereby certify that this Ordinance was APPROVED by the voters of the City of Barstow, State of
California, at a special election held on November 7, 2017 and by the City Council of the City of Barstow at
a regular meeting of the Council held on April 17, 2017.

	Julie Hackbarth-Mclntyre, Mayor
Attest:  JoAnne Cousino, City Clerk	

I7653j i

6

Argument in Favor of Measure J

The Barstow Fire Protection District has provided fire protection services to the Barstow community for
over 90 years. It has been unable to keep up with the growing costs of providing high quality fire
protection and medical aid services to Barstow residents and our many visitors.

Approving Measure J will help fund the Fire District as long as it remains controlled locally by the City with
no increase in property taxes, only a 14 cent sales tax increase! The proposed increase equals only fifty
cents for every $100 of purchases.

Barstow Fire provides medical aid, fire protection and other emergency services to Barstow residents and
millions of annual visitors to the community as needed. Measure J will spread the costs of fire and
medical services across residents and visitors; increasing the sales tax rate means visitors help fund
these services when they stop for gas or shop in town. Visitors to our community should help pay for the
fire protection, medical and emergency services they use.

A YES vote on Measure J will require non-resident visitors to pay their fair share.

The proposed Yz cent sales tax increase will keep Barstow Fire fully funded and locally controlled.

Without these additional funds, the Fire District will have to look at consolidation with other Districts or
contracting with other government agencies for fire services, both of which could erase local community
control, increase costs and/or property taxes, and reduce services.

A YES vote on Measure J will preserve local control and ensure a fiscally sustainable Barstow Fire
Protection District, providing high-quality paramedic and fire protection services.

Keep Barstow Fire District fully funded and locally controlled.

Vote YES on Measure J!

FILED

AUG 2 3 2.017

BY

____DEPUTY

REGISTRAR OF VOTERS

City Council - Argument in Favor of Measure J

1

ARGUMENTS

FORM OF STATEMENT TO BE FILED BY
AUTHORS OF ARGUMENTS

All arguments concerning measures filed pursuant to Division 9, Chapter 3 (beginning with
§ 9200) of the Elections Code shall be accompanied by the following form statement to be
signed by each proponent, and by each author, if different, of the argument

The undersigned proponent (s) or author(s) of the primary argument in favor of the ballot proposition
(Measure J) at the (Special Municipal Election) for the City of Barstow to be held on November 7, 2017 hereby
state that the argument is true and correct to the best of (his/her/their) knowledge and belief.

Print Name I (£ hkd ItbcjNb " W$Lv\ K(	Signature  Da,e B/Zzhl
Title	
(If applicable) Submitted on behalf of:  	o-P 		
* (name of organization)	
Print Name	tncm* f\ naArfr^	Signature __ Date
Title	CAqVQjf fee. 7cm	
(If appIicable):SutJmitted on behalf of  C'\X\i 		
	
I (name of organization)	
Print Name *77^? ^ -A A iA £ CP) i —	Signature  Date _A&A Date
_ j  Title —L s i" ( I'M -e i*a 	  (If applicable):Submitted on behalf of  o-f —	
		 if (name of organization) __		
PrintName^pp,, , /tf. 	__	  	"—  (If applicable).Submitted on behalf of:  - C^lX-	Of1 ^—	
			
(name of oraanization) 			
			—i—		—jar			  Print Name ^ (K. - -  Title C-<3uvLc.iui__	  (If applicable) Submitted on behalf of:  or 			Signaturi  Date 0/23 ^ “7
	
(name of organization) 	„		

§ 9600, E.C.
(Revised 08/17)

Statement of Authors of Arguments

F - A -1