ORDINANCE NO. 560

AN ORDINANCE ADDING CHAPTER 3.13 TO TITLE 3 OF THE LINDSAY MUNICIPAL CODE
TO PROVIDE FOR AN ADDITIONAL ONE-PERCENT TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX FOR
GENERAL PURPOSES.

At a regularly scheduled meeting of the City Council of the City of Lindsay, held June 27, 2017, at
the hour of 6:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers at City Hall, Lindsay, California 93247, the following
ordinance was adopted.

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE COUNCIL AND THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF LINDSAY:

SECTION I. AMENDMENT OF CODE.

Lindsay Municipal Code Title 3 is hereby amended by the addition of a new Chapter to read as

follows:

CHAPTER 3.13 TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX FOR GENERAL PURPOSES

3.13.010 Purpose/Title.

3.13.020 Operative Date.

3.13.030 Contract with State.

3.13.040Transactions Tax Rate.

3.13.050 Place of Sale.

3.13.060 Use Tax Rate.

3.13.070 Adoption of Certain Sections of California Revenue & Taxation
Code by Reference.

3.13.080Limitations on Adoption of State Law and Collection of Use
Taxes.

3.13.090 Permit Not Required.

3.13.100 Exemptions and Exclusions.

3.13.110 Amendments.

3.13.120Enjoining Collection Prohibited.

Sec. 3.13.010 Purpose/Title:

This Ordinance shall be known as the City of Lindsay Transactions and Use Tax for General
Purposes ordinance. The city of Lindsay shall hereinafter be called "City." This ordinance shall be
applicable in the incorporated territory of the City. This Ordinance of the Lindsay Municipal Code has
been adopted for the following (and other) purposes, and directs that the provisions hereof be
interpreted in order to accomplish those purposes:

(a)	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the provisions of Part 1.6
(commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code and Section 7285.9 of
Part 1.7 of Division 2 which authorizes the City to adopt this tax ordinance which shall be operative if a
majority of the electors voting on the measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax at an election
called for that purpose.

(b)	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates provisions identical to
those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California insofar as those provisions are not
inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code.

1

(c)	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax and provides a
measure therefor that can be administered and collected by the State Board of Equalization in a manner
that adapts itself as fully as practical to, and requires the least possible deviation from, the existing
statutory and administrative procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization in administering
and collecting the California State Sales and Use Taxes;

(d)	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be administered in a manner
that will, to the greatest degree possible consistent with the provisions of Parts 1.6 and 1.7 of Division 2
of the said Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting the transactions and use taxes,
and at the same time, minimize the burden of record keeping upon persons subject to taxation under
the provisions thereof.

(e)	To provide a source of revenue to be used by the City for general purposes. There shall be
no legal obligation created by this Chapter for use of the funds for specific purposes.

Sec. 3.13.020. Operative Date.

" Operative date" means the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing more than 110
days after the adoption of this Ordinance, the date of such adoption being set forth below.

Sec. 3.13.030. Contract with State.

Prior to the operative date, the City shall contract with the State Board of Equalization to
perform all functions incident to the administration and operation hereof. If the City has not contracted
with the State Board of Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract and in
such a case the operative date shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter following the execution
of such a contract. The Council may make any technical amendments to this Ordinance required by the
State Board of Equalization, except for any changes affecting the tax rate, its manner of collection, or the
purpose for which the revenue from the tax may be used.

Sec. 3.13.040. Transactions Tax Rate.

For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon all
retailers in the incorporated territory of the City at the rate of one percent (1.00%) of the gross receipts
of any retailer from the sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail in the City of Lindsay on and
after the operative date of this Ordinance. This tax is imposed in addition to the tax imposed pursuant
to Chapter 3.12 of this Code.

Sec. 3.13.050 Place of Sale.

For the purposes of this Ordinance, all retail sales are consummated at the place of business of
the retailer, unless the tangible personal property sold is delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-
of-state destination or to a common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts
from such sales shall include delivery charges, when such charges are subject to the State sales and use
tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of
business in the State or has more than one place of business, the place or places at which the retail sales
are consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the
Board of Equalization.

Sec. 3.13.060. Use Tax Rate.

An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use, or other consumption in the City of tangible
personal property purchased from any retailer on or after the operative date of this Ordinance for
storage, use or other consumption in said territory, at the rate of one percent (1.00%) of the sales price
of the property. The sales price shall include delivery charges when such charges are subject to State
sales or use tax regardless of the place to which delivery is made. The tax imposed is in addition to the
tax imposed pursuant to Chapter 3.12 of this Code.

Sec. 3.13.070. Adoption of Certain Sections of California Revenue & Taxation Code by
Reference.

Except as otherwise provided in this Ordinance, and except insofar as they are inconsistent with
the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1
(commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of said Code, as amended and in force and effect on the
operative date of this Ordinance, applicable to use taxes are hereby adopted and made a part of this
section as though fully set forth herein.

Sec. 3.13.080. Limitations on Adoption of State Law and Collection of Use Taxes.

In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code:

(a)	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the name of
this City shall be substituted therefor. However, the substitution shall not be made when:

(1)	The word "State" is used as a part of the title of the State Controller, State Treasurer,
State Board of Control, State Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or the Constitution of the State of
California;

(2)	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against this
City or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by or against the State Board of Equalization,
in performing the functions incident to the administration or operation of this Ordinance.

(3)	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sections referring to the
exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the result of the substitution would be to:

(A)	Provide	an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other

consumption of tangible personal property which would not otherwise be exempt from this tax while
such sales, storage, use or other consumption remain subject to tax by the State under the provisions of
Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

(B)	Impose	this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other consumption of

tangible personal property which would not be subject to tax by the state under the said provision of
that code.

(4)	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711, 6715, 6737, 6797 or
6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

(a) The word "City" shall be substituted for the word "State" in the phrase "retailer engaged in
business in this State" in Section 6203 and in the definition of that phrase in Section 6203.

Sec. 3.13.090. Permit Not Required.

If a seller's permit has been issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, an additional transactor's permit shall not be required by this Ordinance.

Sec. 3.13.100. Exemptions and Exclusions.

(a)	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the use tax the amount
of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or by any city, city and county, or county
pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the amount of any state-
administered transactions or use tax.

(b)	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax the gross
receipts from:

(1)	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum products, to
operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the County in which the sale is made
and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property under
the authority of the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign government.

(2)	Sales of property to be used outside the City which is shipped to a point outside the
City, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by the retailer or his agent, or by delivery
by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at such point. For the purposes of this paragraph,
delivery to a point outside the City shall be satisfied:

(A)	With	respect	to	vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject to registration

pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft
licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels
registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration to an
out-of-City address and by a declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that such
address is, in fact, his or her principal place of residence; and

(B)	With	respect	to	commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of business out-

of-City and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, that the vehicle will be operated
from that address.

(3)	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to furnish the property
for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this Ordinance.

(4)	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such property,
for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by the
lease prior to the operative date of this Ordinance.

(5)	For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4) of this section, the sale or lease of tangible
personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of
time for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or
lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

(c)	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this Ordinance, the storage, use or other
consumption in this City of tangible personal property:

(1)	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a transactions tax
under any state-administered transactions and use tax ordinance.

(2)	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of aircraft and used
or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers

4

of persons or property for hire or compensation under a certificate of public convenience and necessity
issued pursuant to the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign government. This exemption
is in addition to the exemptions provided in Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code
of the State of California.

(3)	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price pursuant to a
contact entered into prior to the operative date of this Ordinance.

(4)	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the tangible personal
property arises under a lease which is continuing purchase of such property for any period of time for
which the lessee is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by a lease prior to the operative
date of this Ordinance.

(5)	For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4) of this section, storage, use, or other
consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power over, tangible personal property shall
be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party
to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice,
whether or not such right is exercised.

(6)	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in business in the City
shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible personal property, unless the
retailer ships or delivers the property into the City or participates within the City in making the sale of
the property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving the order, either directly or indirectly,
at a place of business of the retailer in the City or through any representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor,
subsidiary, or person in the City under the authority of the retailer.

(7)	"A retailer engaged in business in the City" shall also include any retailer of any of
the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of
Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities
Code, or undocumented vessels registered under Chapter 2 of Division 3.5 (commencing with Section
9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to collect use tax from any purchaser who
registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the City.

(d)	Any person subject to use tax under this Ordinance may credit against that tax any
transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district imposing, or retailer liable for a
transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code with respect to the
sale to the person of the property the storage, use or other consumption of which is subject to the use
tax.

Sec. 3.13.110. Amendments/Severability:

All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this Ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6
and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part
1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part of this ordinance,
provided however, that no such amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this
Ordinance. If any provision of this Ordinance or the application thereof to any person or circumstances
is held invalid, the remainder of the Ordinance and the application of such provision to other persons
or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

Sec. 3.13.120 Enjoining Collection Prohibited:

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit,
action, or proceeding in any court against the State or this City, or against any officer of the State or this

5

City, to prevent or enjoin the collection hereunder, or Parts 1.6 and 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.

SECTION II:	STATUTORY AUTHORITY FOR TAX.

This ordinance is adopted pursuant to Revenue and Taxation Code section 7285.9.

SECTION III: ELECTION REQUIRED.

This ordinance shall not become operative unless and until at least a majority of the electors
voting on this measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax at the election to be held on June 6,
2017.

SECTION IV: ANNUAL AUDIT.

By no later than December 31st of each year, the City's independent auditors shall complete a
financial audit report to include the revenue raised and expended by this tax.

SECTION V: EFFECTIVE DATE.

This ordinance relates to the levying and collecting of the City transactions and use taxes and
shall not take effect until approved by the majority of the voters at the general municipal election to be
held on June 6, 2017.

SECTION VI: CERTIFICATION; PUBLICATION.

Upon approval by the voters, the City Clerk shall verify to the passage and adoption of this
ordinance and shall cause it to be published according to law and transmitted to the Board of
Equalization.

PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of Lindsay this 27th day
of June 2017.

ATTEST:	CITY	COUNCIL	OF	THE	CITY OF LINDSAY

	
Carmela Wilson, City Clerk	Pamela Kimball, Mayor

6