MEASURE C

MEASURE SUBMITTED TO THE VOTERS

MEASURE 2017	YES

To maintain essential services and repair critical NO
infrastructure including:	---------

•	Police, fire, and 911 emergency medical response;

•	Local streets, potholes, bridges and storm drains;

•	Neighborhood fire stations/public safely infrastructure;

•	Parks, youth/senior services;

•	Address homelessness;

•	Help retain local businesses;

•	Support other general services;

shall the City of Santa Barbara enact a one-cent sales tax
providing approximately 22 million dollars annually unless
ended by voters; requiring audits, citizens oversight, public
disclosure of spending, and all funds used locally?

CITY ATTORNEY'S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

Measure C would enact the Santa Barbara Critical Infrastructure and Essential
Community Services Measure (the “Measure”). The Measure would increase
the City’s sales and use tax by 1%. In accordance with state law, the
measure was placed on the ballot by a two-thirds vote of the Santa Barbara
City Council. The Measure will not become law unless it is approved by a
majority of the voters who submit ballots.

In 2003, California’s voters amended the state constitution to prevent the
state government from taking local city tax revenues. As a result, all funds
collected under the Measure would be protected and dedicated to local use
for the benefit of the City of Santa Barbara and its residents.

The Measure proposes a general tax which may be used for any lawful
purpose. However, according to the Measure, the Santa Barbara City Council
based its decision to propose the tax increase on the lack of sufficient local
funds for:

•	Police, fire, and 911 emergency medical response;

•	Repairing local streets, potholes, bridges and storm drains;

•	Maintaining neighborhood fire stations and upgrading public safety
infrastructure;

•	Protecting parks, youth and senior services;

•	Addressing homelessness;

•	Helping retain local businesses; and

•	Supporting other general services that are necessary to protect the
public health, safety and general welfare.

State law prevents the City Council from legally binding future councils to
any particular spending program. However, the Measure requires all future
City Councils to prepare an “annual accountability performance report for
the benefit of Santa Barbara citizens and in order to assure accountability
in the expenditure of tax revenues.”

The Annual Accountability Performance Report must publicly disclose
how much revenue is collected, and the amount and purposes of any tax-
supported spending by the City. This report must also be reviewed in public
by a Citizens’ Oversight Committee with the legal duty “to review the annual
accountability performance report and report its findings to the City Council
and to Santa Barbara citizens,” following public meetings and posting to
the City’s website.

A "yes" vote is a vote to approve the Santa Barbara Critical Infrastructure
and Essential Community Services Measure and impose a 1% increase of
the existing sales and use tax.

A "no" vote is a vote not to approve the Santa Barbara Critical Infrastructure
and Essential Community Services Measure and not to impose a 1 % increase
of the existing sales and use tax.

/s/ Ariel Pierre Calonne
City Attorney

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE C

Your YES vote on Measure C will ensure that the Santa Barbara has the
funding to maintain police, fire, and 911 emergency medical response,
AND repair local streets and potholes, upgrade outdated emergency
communication systems, and ensure our police station and neighborhood
fire stations are accessible and functional in a natural disaster.

Over the past five years, the State has taken more than $20 million a year
($100 million so far) in City funding to help balance the state budget. There
simply are not enough local financial resources to repair critical infrastructure
and continue to provide the essential services that residents need and
want. Our roads and buildings are crumbling, and are only becoming more
expensive to fix. Now is the time to act.

The Santa Barbara City Council has surveyed residents and established that
the top priorities for funding are:

•	Maintaining police, fire, and 911 emergency medical response;

•	Repairing local streets and potholes;

•	Upgrading outdated emergency communication systems;

•	Ensuring our police station and neighborhood fire stations are
accessible and functional in a natural disaster;

•	Protecting parks, youth and senior services;

•	Addressing homelessness; and

•	Helping retain local businesses.

Measure C provides strict accountability to taxpayers, including an
annual audit, posting an annual accountability performance report on the
City’s website, and detailing the amount of revenue collected and the nature
and purpose of all expenditures. Measure C requires that a citizens’ oversite
committee review the annual performance report and report to the Council
and the public. All meetings of the committee will be open to the public.
ALL funds generated by Measure C must be used locally. No funds can be
taken by Sacramento or Washington, D.C.

Please join community and business leaders, including Downtown Santa
Barbara and the Santa Barbara Region Chamber of Commerce in supporting
YES on Measure C.

/s/ Lois Capps, Congressmember (ret.)

/s/ Geoff Green, Community Leader
/s/ Olivia Rodriguez, Attorney

/s/ Randy Rowse, Santa Barbara City Councilmember
/s/ Helene Schneider, Mayor, City of Santa Barbara

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE C

Vote NO on the proposed 1 % sales tax.

Revenue from the proposed tax will have no restrictions whatsoever on how
it can be spent - salaries, pensions, water, public artwork, homeless housing,
anything. In other words, it might not be used to improve our roads and build
a new police station at all.

The only way to ensure tax dollars are spent for street improvements and
a new police station is to specify that in a future initiative approved bv vou.

I urge you to vote “No” on this measure. Then in the future we can bring
forward another initiative that will ensure the proceeds will be spent for what
we need - better streets and a new police station.

Also, today’s tax proposal has no end, or “sunset”, clause. We could be taxed
forever. That alone should make you vote, “No,” to this sales tax proposal.

/s/ Frank Hotchkiss

Santa Barbara City Council Member

/s/ Joe Armendariz
Executive Director

Santa Barbara Taxpayers Association

MEASURE C

ORDINANCE NO.

AN ORDINANCE OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SANTA
BARBARA IMPOSING A ONE PERCENT TRANSACTIONS
AND USE TAX TO BE ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE
BOARD OF EQUALIZATION, SUBJECT TO ADOPTION
BY THE ELECTORATE BY APPROVING THE SANTA
BARBARA CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE AND ESSENTIAL
COMMUNITY SERVICES MEASURE

THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SANTA BARBARA DOES ORDAIN
AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. Findings and Purpose. The City Council finds and declares
as follows:

A.	The City of Santa Barbara provides vital municipal services and
facilities, such as:

1.	Police, fire, and 911 emergency medical response;

2.	Repairing local streets, potholes, bridges and storm drains;

3.	Maintaining neighborhood fire stations and upgrading public
safety infrastructure;

4.	Protecting parks, youth and senior services;

5.	Addressing homelessness;

6.	Helping retain local businesses; and

7.	Supporting other general services that are necessary to protect
the public health, safety and general welfare.

B.	The City of Santa Barbara’s existing revenues are insufficient
to fully provide such municipal services and facilities at the level that
residents need and want.

C.	Over the past five years, the state has taken away over $100 million
in local City funding. This measure provides local funding for local needs, and
includes strict accountability requirements including independent oversight
by a citizen’s committee that must meet in public, full disclosure of public
spending available on the City’s website and at other public locations in the
City; annual financial audits; and a requirement that all funds raised be spent
locally and cannot be taken by Sacramento or Washington.

D.	Even before last winter’s damaging rainstorms, 64% of the streets in
Santa Barbara were rated as “at risk, poor or failed” by pavement engineers.

E.	The City of Santa Barbara is 167 years old and has aging infrastructure

which needs to be repaired and upgraded. This measure invests in our
community by helping improve the condition of our streets and sidewalks,
earthquake retrofit local bridges, as well as repair and upgrade deteriorating
storm drains and the seismically unsafe police station. It will cost taxpayers
less to address these infrastructure needs now, rather than letting them
worsen and costing all of us more in the long-run.

F.	There are nearly 800 homeless people living on the streets, in cars
or in temporary shelters in Santa Barbara on any given night, including
nearly 150 veterans and families with young children. This measure will help
the City continue to provide resources to community partners to address
homelessness including mental health, substance abuse treatment services
and job training, to respectfully help individuals, veterans and families with
young children transition away from or stay off the street, as well as to ensure
our business districts, parks and other public areas are safe and secure for
everyone.

G.	Well maintained streets, quality neighborhood parks, and safe and
clean streets, schools and neighborhoods are an investment in public safety
that strengthens local property values and make our community a more
desirable place to live, do business and raise a family.

H.	About 40% of Santa Barbara’s sales tax dollars are paid by tourists
and visitors from surrounding areas. This measure will help make sure that
tourists and visitors are paying their fair share to maintain our community
and not place these costs exclusively upon city residents. Prescription
medications and groceries will not be taxed by this measure.

I.	The funding made available by this measure will enable the City to
restore and improve its general municipal services and facilities. Nothing in
this measure allows tax revenues to be directed into a special fund or for a
special purpose.

SECTION 2. Chapter 4.14 [Transactions and Use Tax] of Title 4 [Revenue,
Finance and Purchasing] of the Santa Barbara Municipal Code is added to
read as follows:

4.14.010 Short Title. This ordinance shall be known as the Santa Barbara
Critical Infrastructure and Essential Community Services Measure. The City
of Santa Barbara hereinafter shall be called “City.” This ordinance shall be
applicable in the incorporated territory of the City.

4.14.020 Operative Date. “Operative Date” means the first day of the
first calendar quarter commencing more than 110 days after November 7,
2017.

4.14.030 Purposes. This ordinance is adopted to achieve the following,
among other purposes, and directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted
in order to accomplish those purposes:

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the
provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code and Section 7285.9 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 which
authorizes the City to adopt this tax ordinance which shall be operative if a
majority of the electors voting on the measure vote to approve the imposition
of the tax at an election called for that purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates
provisions identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State
of California insofar as those provisions are not inconsistent with the
requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a
tax and provides a measure therefore that can be administered and collected
by the State Board of Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as
practicable to, and requires the least possible deviation from, the existing
statutory and administrative procedures followed by the State Board of
Equalization in administering and collecting the California State Sales and
Use Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be
administered in a manner that will be, to the greatest degree possible,
consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting the transactions and use
taxes, and at the same time, minimize the burden of record keeping upon
persons subject to taxation under the provisions of this ordinance.

4.14.040 Contract with State. Prior to the operative date, the City shall
contract with the State Board of Equalization to perform all functions incident
to the administration and operation of this transactions and use tax ordinance;
provided, that if the City shall not have contracted with the State Board of
Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract and
in such a case the operative date shall be the first day of the first calendar
quarter following the execution of such a contract.

4.14.050 Transactions Tax Rate. For the privilege of selling tangible
personal property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in the
incorporated territory of the City at the rate of 1.00% of the gross receipts
of any retailer from the sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail in
said territory on and after the operative date of this ordinance.

4.14.060 Place of Sale. For the purposes of this ordinance, all retail
sales are consummated at the place of business of the retailer unless the
tangible personal property sold is delivered by the retailer or his agent to
an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for delivery to an out-of-
state destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery
charges, when such charges are subject to the state sales and use tax,
regardless of the place to which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has
no permanent place of business in the State or has more than one place of
business, the place or places at which the retail sales are consummated shall
be determined under rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by
the State Board of Equalization.

4.14.070 Use Tax Rate. An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage,
use or other consumption in the City of tangible personal property purchased
from any retailer on and after the operative date of this ordinance for storage,
use or other consumption in said territory at the rate of 1.00% of the sales
price of the property. The sales price shall include delivery charges when
such charges are subject to state sales or use tax regardless of the place to
which delivery is made.

4.14.080 Adoption of Provisions of State Law. Except as otherwise
provided in this ordinance and except insofar as they are inconsistent with
the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code,
all of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2
of the Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a part of
this ordinance as though fully set forth herein.

4.14.090 Limitations on Adoption of State Law and Collection of Use
Taxes. In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing
agency, the name of this City shall be substituted therefor. However, the
substitution shall not be made when:

1.	The word “State” is used as a part of the title of the State
Controller, State Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Board of Equalization,
State Treasury, or the Constitution of the State of California;

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken
by or against this City or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than
by or against the State Board of Equalization, in performing the functions
incident to the administration or operation of this ordinance.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to
sections referring to the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where

the result of the substitution would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales,
storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property which would
not otherwise be exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other
consumption remain subject to tax by the State under the provisions of Part
1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or
other consumption of tangible personal property which would not be subject
to tax by the state under the said provision of that code.

4.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof),
6711,6715, 6737, 6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

B.	The word “City” shall be substituted for the word “State” in the
phrase “retailer engaged in business in this State” in Section 6203 and in
the definition of that phrase in Section 6203.

4.14.100 Permit Not Required. If a seller’s permit has been issued to a
retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional
transactor’s permit shall not be required by this ordinance.

4.14.110 Exemptions and Exclusions.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax
and the use tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the
State of California or by any city, city and county, or county pursuant to the
Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the amount of any
state-administered transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of
transactions tax the gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum
products, to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside
the county in which the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of
such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property under the authority
of the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the City which is shipped to
a point outside the City, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such
point by the retailer or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for
shipment to a consignee at such point. For the purposes of this paragraph,
delivery to a point outside the City shall be satisfied:

a. With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles)

subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000)
of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section
21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels registered
under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by
registration to an out-of-City address and by a declaration under penalty of
perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that such address is, in fact, his or her
principal place of residence; and

b. With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a
place of business out-of-City and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed
by the buyer, that the vehicle will be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated
to furnish the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into
prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale
of such property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to
lease the property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative
date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section,
the sale or lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be
obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which
any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate
the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this ordinance, the
storage, use or other consumption in this City of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to
a transactions tax under any state-administered transactions and use tax
ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators
of aircraft and used or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively
in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property for hire
or compensation under a certificate of public convenience and necessity
issued pursuant to the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign
government. This exemption is in addition to the exemptions provided in
Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State
of California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed
price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this
ordinance.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over,
the tangible personal property arises under a lease which is a continuing
purchase of such property for any period of time for which the lessee is
obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by a lease prior to the
operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section,
storage, use, or other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any
right or power over, tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be
obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which
any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate
the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in
business in the City shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser
of tangible personal property, unless the retailer ships or delivers the property
into the City or participates within the City in making the sale of the property,
including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving the order, either directly
or indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer in the City or through any
representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the City
under the authority of the retailer.

7.	“A retailer engaged in business in the City” shall also include any
retailer of any of the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to
Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code,
aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code,
or undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with
Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to collect
use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or
aircraft at an address in the City.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit against
that tax any transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a
district imposing, or retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6
of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code with respect to the sale to
the person of the property the storage, use or other consumption of which
is subject to the use tax.

4.14.120 Amendments to State Law. All amendments subsequent to the
effective date of this ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and which are not inconsistent
with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code,
and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part of this ordinance, provided
however, that no such amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of
tax imposed by this ordinance.

4.14.130 Enjoining Collection Forbidden. No injunction or writ of mandate
or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit, action or proceeding
in any court against the State or the City, or against any officer of the State or
the City, to prevent or enjoin the collection under this ordinance, or Part 1.6
of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount
of tax required to be collected.

4.14.140 Severability. If any provision of this ordinance or the application
thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of
the ordinance and the application of such provision to other persons or
circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

4.14.150 Effective Date and Submission to Voters. This ordinance relates
to the levying and collecting of City transactions and use taxes and shall
take effect immediately. However, no tax imposed by this ordinance shall
be effective unless that tax has been approved by the voters of the City as
required by Section 2(b) of Article XIIIC of the California Constitution and
applicable law.

4.14.160 Annual Accountability Performance Report. The City Council
shall cause preparation of an annual accountability performance report for
the benefit of Santa Barbara citizens and in order to assure accountability
in the expenditure of tax revenues. The annual accountability performance
report shall be posted on the City’s website and shall include the following
information:

A.	The amount of revenue collected pursuant to the transactions and
use tax imposed by this ordinance;

B.	The amount and general purposes of the expenditures made possible
by this ordinance including, where feasible, a categorization of the nature
and purpose of the expenditures. These categories may include, among
other things:

1.	A listing of general fund service expenditures (such as police,
fire, parks and recreation, libraries, youth and senior programs and
other general fund services).

2.	A listing of capital facility expenditures (such as streets, bridges,
emergency police and fire facilities and other general fund capital
facility expenditures).

3.	Such other categories as the City Council may from time to time
deem necessary or desirable.

4.14.170 Citizens’ Oversight Committee. The City Council shall establish
a citizens’ oversight committee which shall have the duty and responsibility to

review the annual accountability performance report and report its findings to
the City Council and to Santa Barbara citizens. All meetings of the citizens’
oversight committee shall be open to the public.

4.14.180 Audit and Review. The proceeds of the tax imposed pursuant
to this ordinance, as well as the expenditure thereof, shall be audited annually
by an independent accounting firm. The audit results may be combined with
the audit of other City funds, so long as the proceeds are reported separately.
The City Council shall discuss the results of such audit at a meeting of the
City Council that is open to the public. The report of such audit shall be
posted on the City’s website.

4.14.190 Termination and Repeal. The authority to levy the taxes imposed
by this ordinance shall be in effect until and unless this ordinance is repealed.

4.14.200 Declaration. The proceeds of the taxes imposed by this
ordinance may be used for any lawful purpose of the City, as authorized by
ordinance, resolution or action of the City Council or by Ordinance adopted
by the electorate of the City. These taxes do not meet the criteria established
by Section 1 (d) of Article XI11C of the California Constitution for special taxes,
and are general taxes imposed for general government purposes.

4.14.210 Additional Findings. The City Council finds as follows:

A.	The City provides vital municipal services and facilities, such as
police, fire, parks and recreation, streets, bridges, libraries, youth
and senior programs and other general fund services.

B.	The City’s existing revenues are insufficient to fully provide municipal
services and facilities at the level that is necessary or desirable.

C.	The funding made available by this Ordinance will enable the City
to restore and improve its general municipal services and facilities.

SECTION 3. CEQA. This ordinance is not subject to the California
Environmental Quality Act (“CEQA”) pursuant to Section 15060(c)(2) of the
CEQA Guidelines (Title 14, Chapter 3 of the California Code of Regulations)
because the activity will not result in a direct or reasonably foreseeable
indirect physical change in the environment, and Section 15060(c)(3)
because the activity is not a project as defined in Section 15378 of the CEQA
Guidelines because it has no potential for resulting in physical change to
the environment, directly or indirectly.