CITY OF COTATI
MEASURE G

Shall an ordinance be adopted authorizing a City of Cotati

G cannabis business tax on cannabis cultivation businesses
up to $25 per square foot of cultivation area (annually
adjusted by CPI) or 8% of gross receipts, and on cannabis
manufacturing, distribution and dispensary businesses up to 8%
of gross receipts, to maintain local City services and address
cannabis industry impacts with all funds subject to annual audits,
generating approximately $300,000 in revenue per year until
repealed?

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE G

The Cotati City Council has placed Measure G on the ballot, asking voters to con-
sider a Cannabis (marijuana) - specific Business Tax (the “Ordinance”) on certain
cannabis-related businesses operating within City limits. The Ordinance will not
take effect unless a majority of those voting votes “yes.”

Currently, businesses operating in Cotati - including cannabis businesses - must
pay a general business tax. One cannabis dispensary is currently allowed to oper-
ate in the City. The Ordinance does not authorize any new cannabis businesses,
but authorizes imposition of the tax should those businesses be allowed in the fu-
ture. The Ordinance authorizes the Council to add Chapter 5.30 to the Municipal
Code and establish an excise tax on the following types of cannabis businesses in
Cotati: commercial cannabis cultivators (including nurseries), manufacturers, dis-
tributors, and retailers (including dispensaries). In turn, these cannabis businesses
will be exempt from the City’s general business tax. The Ordinance does not im-
pose any sales or use taxes directly on cannabis users or consumers. The excise
tax does not apply to the use of cannabis or the cultivation of cannabis for personal
use as authorized by state law.

The Council can set and adjust the excise tax rate up to the maximum tax rate
stated in the Ordinance. For commercial cultivation, the annual tax rate cannot ex-
ceed $25 per square foot of cannabis cultivation area (adjusted annually by the
CPI) or 8% of annual gross receipts. For cannabis manufacturers, distributors and
retailers, the annual tax rate cannot exceed 8% of annual gross receipts. Initial
rates will be: 2% of gross receipts or $5.00 per square foot of cultivation area for
cultivators, 1% of gross receipts for manufacturer, 3% of gross receipts for retailers
(exempting medical sales), and 0% for distributors. Cannabis testing labs will pay
the City’s general business tax rather than the cannabis business tax. The initial
tax rates set by Council resolution are for three years. The Ordinance allows the
Council to adjust the rates periodically as long as they do not exceed the maximum
rates.

The Ordinance requires all persons engaging in a cannabis business in the City-
whether subject to the cannabis business tax or the general business tax - to
register with the City for purposes of tax collection, and includes procedures for tax
reporting, remittance, enforcement, and appeals.

The tax imposed by the Ordinance is a general tax under state law. All taxes col-
lected under the Ordinance will be placed in the City’s general fund and may be
used for any City purpose. The amount of revenue to be generated by the tax is
estimated at $300,000.

This is an impartial analysis of Measure G. You can obtain a copy of the Measure
at no cost, by calling the Clerk’s Office at (707) 665-3622.

si Robin Donoghue
City Attorney

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE G

Measure G will allow Cotati to impose a tax on cannabis businesses operating
within the City now that the State has enacted the Medical Cannabis Regulation
and Safety Act, and the voters have approved Proposition 64, the Adult Use of
Marijuana Act. Measure G will ensure that the City has the resources we need to
regulate and properly support the cannabis industry without reducing investment
in core city services, such as public safety and maintaining streets and parks.
Measure G is a proposed tax on cannabis businesses and not a sales or property
tax.

Over 40 Cities and Counties in California have enacted similar taxes for cannabis
businesses to address the inherent strain on the local agencies’ budgets resulting
from cannabis legalization. We have identified areas where additional resources
are needed to support this new industry. These include increased public safety
needs, business inspections to ensure safety and environmental quality, and
audits of operations and finances.

Measure G is fiscally responsible, timely, and prudent. Over the past year, the City
of Cotati has addressed critical issues such as housing, police staffing, street con-
dition and traffic safety and has made key investments from a limited pool of re-
sources. By proactively establishing a tax on cannabis businesses, the City’s
budget will be protected from any new or unexpected costs associated with canna-
bis legalization and protect City resources for investment in other key priorities.

Measure G was carefully crafted to find the right balance between generating the
revenue needed while providing certainty for this emerging industry. Adoption of a
fair taxation framework will encourage cannabis businesses to join the regulated
market, ensuring protection for consumers, the environment, and public health.

With unanimous support from the Cotati City Council, we respectfully request a
Yes vote on Measure G.

COTATI CITY COUNCIL
s/ Susan A Harvey, Mayor

NO ARGUMENT WAS SUBMITTED AGAINST MEASURE G

49-503

9585

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE G

ORDINANCE NO.__________

ORDINANCE OF THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF COTATI ADDING
CHAPTER 5.30 TO THE COTATI MUNICIPAL CODE TO IMPOSE A
CANNABIS BUSINESSS TAX ON CERTAIN CANNABIS BUSINESSES
OPERATING IN COTATI AND AMENDING CHAPTER 5.04 TO IMPOSE A
BUSINESS LICENSE TAX ON CERTAIN OTHER CANNABIS BUSINESSES
OPERATING IN COTATI

WHEREAS, the City of Cotati has responsibly and proactively managed its
finances and its taxpayer dollars through transparent budget and decision-making
processes and recently enacted Measure G to ensure the City’s fiscal stability by
securing an additional one percent (1%) sales tax until 2023; and

WHEREAS, on November 5,1996, the California voters enacted Proposi-
tion 215 to legalize medical use of cannabis, and in October 2015, the Governor
signed into law the Medical Marijuana Regulation and Safety Act (known as the
Medical Cannabis Regulation and Safety Act or “MCRSA”), establishing a state
licensing framework and authorizing local regulation of the medical cannabis in-
dustry; and

WHEREAS, on November 8, 2016, California voters enacted Proposition
64 to legalize adult recreational use of cannabis and to allow businesses that sup-
port such cannabis use to operate legally, subject to regulations imposed by state
and local public entities; and

WHEREAS, the State of California Governor’s Office proposed a series of
amendments to the state’s regulatory structure during the budget process, known
as “SB 94”, “the Governor’s Trailer Bill,” in order to better align the requirements of
MCRSA and Proposition 64, now known as the Medical and Adult Use Cannabis
Regulation and Safety Act or “MAUCRSA;” and

WHEREAS, the permitting and support of this industry, in association with
the earlier passage of Proposition 215, and the recent enactment of MCRSA and
passage of Proposition 64, has significant cost implications for the City due to the
substantial costs of adopting and implementing regulations to govern this new
industry, enforcing those regulations, ensuring public safety, addressing environ-
mental concerns, and providing economic development and other related services;
and

WHEREAS, the City must identify a funding source to support regulation of
the industry while not adversely impacting the general fund in order to maintain
consistent funding and financial stability for essential services such as police and
fire protection, 911 emergency response times, streets and road maintenance, af-
fordable housing, recreational programs and other general city services; and

WHEREAS, the City’s existing general business tax ordinance, which gen-
erally levies a limited business tax on all businesses operating in Cotati, is insuffi-
cient to generate the volume of revenue needed to pay the City’s costs of allowing
the new and unique cannabis industry to operate in Cotati; and

WHEREAS, nearly fifty (50) other California jurisdictions — typically in
collaboration with cannabis businesses — have enacted local measures to impose
a general tax on cannabis business for the privilege of operating within the local
jurisdiction; and

WHEREAS, such business taxes are imposed on cannabis businesses,
and not directly on cannabis users or consumers; and

WHEREAS, adopting such a local cannabis industry business tax measure
in the City of Cotati will benefit residents of the City by ensuring that cannabis
businesses contribute reasonably and fairly to paying for the costs associated
with allowing this emerging industry to operate while allowing the City to continue
to maintain stable funding for essential City services and continued quality of life;
and

WHEREAS, the City recognizes the volatility of the newly-legalized canna-
bis market and will therefore set limited initial tax rates to balance the financial
needs of the City and the desire of the City to support and encourage the industry
to engage in the regulated market; and

WHEREAS, such a tax measure will provide locally-controlled revenue that
cannot be taken by the State; and

WHEREAS, such a tax measure will help to maintain the City’s long-term
financial stability, with public oversight and annual fiscal reviews; and

WHEREAS, the City of Cotati wishes to continue its policy engagement and
discussions with stakeholders and the public about how cannabis businesses
operating in Cotati should be regulated, while acting quickly and decisively to ad-
dress any significant financial disruptions or impact to the City’s General Fund and
provision of services to Cotati citizens.

NOW, THEREFORE, THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF COTATI DO
ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1. The above recitals constitute a part of the findings made by the
citizens in enacting this Ordinance.

Section 2. Chapter 5.30 is hereby added to Title 5 of the Cotati Munici-
pal Code to read as follows:

CHAPTER 5.30 CANNABIS BUSINESS TAX

5.30.010. Title. This ordinance shall be known as the Cannabis Business Tax
Ordinance.

5.30.020. General Excise Tax. The cannabis business tax is enacted solely to
raise revenue and not to regulate cannabis activity; regulation of that activity re-
mains the province of the city council. The cannabis business tax is an excise tax
on the privilege of engaging in cannabis business activity in the city; it is not a sales
or use tax. All of the proceeds from the tax imposed by this chapter shall be placed
in the city’s general fund and used for general governmental purposes.

5.30.030. Purpose. This ordinance is adopted to achieve the following purposes,
among others, and shall be interpreted to accomplish those purposes:

A.	To impose an excise tax on certain businesses engaged in the cannabis in-
dustry operating within the City of Cotati pursuant to MAUCRSA and the
“California Control, Regulate and Tax Adult Use of Marijuana Initiative”
approved by the state’s voters on November 8,2016, and/or any other en-
abling legislation, or in violation of such legislation, and notwithstanding
whether such state laws use the term “marijuana” or “cannabis;” and

B.	To specify the type of tax and maximum rate of tax that may be levied and
the method of collection; and

C.	To comply with all requirements to impose a general excise tax, such tax to
become operative only if and to the extent implemented by the city council
by resolution.

5.30.040. Definitions. Terms that are not defined in this chapter shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in Chapter 17.90 of the Cotati Municipal Code. The
following words and phrases shall have the meanings set forth below when used in
this chapter unless the context plainly requires otherwise:

A.	“Business” means professions, trades, occupations and all and every kind
of calling, whether or not carried on for profit.

B.	“Cannabis” means all parts of the plant Cannabis sativa Linnaeus, Canna-
bis indica, or Cannabis ruderalis, or any other strain or varietal of the genus
Cannabis that may exist or hereafter be discovered or developed that has
psychoactive or medicinal properties, whether growing or not, including the
seeds thereof. In addition, and without limiting the foregoing, “Cannabis”
also means cannabis as defined by Section 26001 of the Business and
Professions Code, as may be amended from time to time, and all other
applicable state law.

C.	“Cannabis business” or “cannabis industry” means any business activity in
the city relating to cannabis, including but not limited to cultivation (includ-
ing nurseries), transportation, distribution, manufacture, compounding,
conversion, processing, preparation, testing, storage, packaging, delivery

CONT. NEXT PAGE

49-504

9585

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE G, CONT.

and sales (wholesale and/or retail sales) of cannabis or cannabis products,
whether or not carried on for gain or profit. A cannabis business does not
include any business whose only relationship to cannabis or cannabis
products is the production or sale of cannabis accessories.

D.	“Cannabis cultivation area” means the total aggregate area(s) of cannabis
cultivation by a cannabis business as measured around the outermost
perimeter of each separate and discrete area of cannabis cultivation at the
dripline of the canopy expected at maturity and includes, but is not limited
to, the space between plants within the cultivation area, the exterior dimen-
sions of garden beds, garden plots, hoop houses, green houses, and each
room or area where cannabis plants are grown, excluding non-production
areas, as determined by the community development director or designee.

E.	“Cannabis business tax” means the tax due pursuant to this chapter for
engaging in cannabis business in the city.

F.	“Cannabis concentrate” means cannabis that has undergone a process to
concentrate one or more active cannabinoids, thereby increasing the prod-
uct’s potency. Resin from granular trichomes from a cannabis plant is a
concentrate for purposes of this division. A cannabis concentrate is not
considered food, as defined by Section 109935 of the Health and Safety
Code, or a drug, as defined by Section 109925 of the Health and Safety
Code.

G.	“Cannabis product” means any product containing cannabis, including,
but not limited to, flowers, buds, oils, tinctures, concentrates, extractions,
edibles and those products described in Section 11018.1 of the California
Health and Safety Code.

H.	“Canopy” means all areas occupied by any portion of a cannabis plant,
inclusive of all vertical planes, whether the areas are contiguous or non-
contiguous. The plant canopy need not be contained to a single parcel of
land in determining the total square footage that will be subject to tax under
this chapter.

I.	“City” means the city of Cotati, either the entity or its territorial limits, as the
context requires.

J.	“City Council” or “council” means the city council of the city of Cotati.

K.	“Collector” means the city’s administrative services director or designee.

L.	“Commercial cannabis cultivation” means cultivation conducted by, for, or
as part of a cannabis business. Commercial cannabis cultivation does not
include personal medical cannabis cultivation, or cultivation for personal
recreational use as authorized under the “California Control, Regulate and
Tax Adult Use of Marijuana Initiative” approved by the state’s voters on
November 8,2016 and as amended by MAUCRSA, for which the individual
receives no compensation whatsoever.

M.	“Cultivation” means any activity involving the planting, growing, harvesting,
drying, curing, grading, or trimming of cannabis. “Cultivation” also includes
nurseries. In addition, and without limiting the foregoing, “cultivation” in-
cludes “cultivation” as defined in California Business and Professions
Code section 26001 and any successor statute, as may be adopted and
amended from time to time.

N.	“Retailer” means a facility where cannabis or cannabis products, are offered,
either individually or in combination, for retail sale, including an establish-
ment that engages in delivery of cannabis or cannabis products as part of
a retail sale. In addition, and without limiting the foregoing, “Retailer” in-
cludes “Dispensary” as defined in Chapter 8.24 of this code and retailer as
defined in Section 26070 of the Business and Professions Code including
any successor ordinance or statute, as may be adopted or amended from
time to time.

O.	“Distributor” means a person engaged in procuring cannabis from a culti-
vator, and/or procuring cannabis products from a manufacturer, for sale
to a Retailer. In addition, and without limiting the foregoing, “distributor”

includes “distributor” as defined in Section 26070 of the Business and Pro-
fessions Code and any successor statute, as may be adopted or amended
from time to time. “Distribution” means the procurement, sale, and trans-
port of cannabis and cannabis products between licensees.

P.	“Employee” means each and every person engaged in the operation or
conduct of any cannabis business, whether as owner, member of the
owner’s family, partner, associate, agent, manager or solicitor, and each
and every other person employed or working in such cannabis business for
a wage, salary, commission, barter or any other form of compensation.

Q.	“Evidence of doing business” means when any person shall by use of
signs, circulars, cards, telephone book, or newspapers, advertise, hold
out, or represent that he is in business in the city, or when any person holds
an active license or permit issued by a governmental agency indicating that
he is in business in the city, and such person fails to deny by a sworn state-
ment given to the collector that he is not conducting a business in the city,
after being requested to do so by the collector, then these facts shall be
considered prima facie evidence that he or she is conducting a business in
the city.

R.	“Gross Receipts,” means “Gross Receipts” as that term is defined in Sec-
tion 5.04.010(D) of the Cotati Municipal Code.

S.	“Manufacturer” means a person who conducts the production, preparation,
propagation, or compounding of cannabis or cannabis products either
directly or indirectly or by extraction methods, or independently by means
of chemical synthesis, or by a combination of extraction and chemical
synthesis, or who packages or repackages cannabis or cannabis products
or labels or re-labels its container. In addition, and without limiting the fore-
going, “manufacturer” includes “manufacturer” as defined in California
Business and Professions Code section 26001 and any successor statute,
as may be adopted or amended from time to time.

T.	“Nursery” means a person who produces cannabis clones, immature
plants, and/or seeds for wholesale distribution, used specifically for the
planting, propagation, and cultivation of cannabis. In addition, and without
limiting the foregoing, “nursery” includes “nursery” as defined in California
Business and Professions Code section 26001 and any successor statute,
as may be adopted or amended from time to time.

U.	“Person” means “Person” as that term is defined in Section 5.04.010(B) of
the city of Cotati Municipal Code.

V.	“Personal medical cannabis cultivation” means cultivation, by either a
qualified patient who cultivates cannabis exclusively for his or her personal
medical use or by a caregiver who cultivates cannabis exclusively for
medical use by qualified patients and who is exempt from State licensing
requirements under MAUCRSA.

W.	“Sale” means the transfer, in any manner or by any means whatsoever, of
title to real or personal property for a consideration; the serving, supplying,
or furnishing for a consideration of any property; and a transaction whereby
the possession of property is transferred and the seller retains the title as
security for the payment of the price shall likewise be deemed a sale. The
definitions in this subsection shall be deemed to include any transaction
which is or which, in effect, results in a sale within the contemplation of law.

X.	“State” means the State of California.

Y.	“State license” means a state license issued pursuant to California Busi-
ness & Professions Code Sections 26000 et seq. or other applicable state
law.

Z.	“Vertically Integrated Business,” means a cannabis business with a Type
12 license or any cannabis business holding two or more license types
that internally transfers products between cultivation, manufacturing, dis-
tribution, or retail operations without a recorded sale to determine gross
receipts for purposes of the cannabis business tax.

CONT. NEXT PAGE

49-505

9585

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE G, CONT.

5.30.050. Tax Authorized. A cannabis business tax is hereby imposed on every
person who is engaged in cannabis business in the city as prescribed herein, from
and after the effective date of a city council resolution implementing the tax. It is
unlawful for any person to transact or carry on any cannabis business in the city
without paying, in accordance with this chapter, the cannabis business tax im-
posed by this section.

A.	Tax on Commercial Cannabis Cultivation

There is hereby imposed on every person engaged in commercial
cannabis cultivation in the city, an annual tax at a rate established by
resolution of the city council which rate shall not exceed either $25
per square foot of cannabis cultivation area or eight percent (8%) of
annual gross receipts. The maximum square foot tax shall be
adjusted annually each January 1st based on the year-over-year
percentage change in Bureau of Labor Statistics San Francisco/
Oakland/San Jose Consumer Price Index — All Urban Consumers
(CPI-U) October to October comparison, or if such index is discon-
tinued, a comparable successor consumer price index as deter-
mined by the city council. The tax imposed under this Subsection
(A)(1) shall be due and payable in quarterly installments as provided
in Section 5.30.070 of this chapter. The tax imposed under this Sub-
section (A)(1) shall not be implemented unless and until the city
council acts by resolution to do so.

1.	The city council may by resolution, in its discretion, implement a tax
rate lower than the maximum rates set forth in Subsection (A)(1) for
all persons engaged in commercial cannabis cultivation in the City
or establish differing tax rates for different categories of commercial
cannabis cultivation. For example, and without limitation, the city
council may set different tax rates for cannabis cultivation for medi-
cal or adult recreational use, or for indoor rather than outdoor or
mixed light cultivation. The city council may, by resolution, also de-
crease or increase any such tax rate from time to time, provided that
the tax rate shall not, at any time, exceed the maximum tax rates es-
tablished in Subsection (A)(1). An affirmative vote of at least four (4)
members of the city council is required for any tax increase resulting
in a tax rate of over five percent (5%). Tax rates shall be set for a
minimum of a two (2) year term.

2.	Persons subject to the tax imposed by Subsections (A)(1) and

limitation, the city council may set different rates for businesses
serving medical or adult recreational use, or for different types of
manufacturers, distributors or retailers. The city council may, by res-
olution, also decrease or increase any such tax rate from time to
time, provided that the tax rate shall not, at any time, exceed the
maximum tax rate established in Subsection (B)(1). An affirmative
vote of at least four (4) members of the city council is required for
any tax increase resulting in a tax rate of over 5%. Tax rates shall be
set for a minimum of a two (2) year term.

3.	Persons subject to the tax imposed by Subsections (B)(1) and
(B)(2) shall also register and pay the registration fee described in
Section 5.30.060 of this chapter, but shall be exempt from paying
the general business tax required under Chapter 5.04 of the Cotati
Municipal Code for any such cannabis business. A cannabis busi-
ness not subject to the cannabis business tax imposed by this
chapter shall be subject to the general business tax required under
Chapter 5.04 of the Cotati Municipal Code except as otherwise
provided by Chapter 5.04 of the Cotati Municipal Code or other
applicable law.

C. No further voter approval shall be required for the adoption or increase of a
tax under the authority granted by this Section 5.30.050 of this chapter, it
being the intent of the People of the City of Cotati to authorize such a tax
up to and including the maximum rates set forth above whenever imple-
mented by the city council hereafter.

5.30.060. Registration of Cannabis Business. All cannabis businesses shall be
required to annually register as follows:

A.	All persons engaging in a cannabis business, whether an existing,
newly-established or acquired business, shall register with the collector
within thirty (30) days of commencing operation or by January 1, 2018,
whichever is later, and shall annually renew such registration by January 1
of each year thereafter. In registering, such persons shall furnish to the col-
lector a sworn statement, upon a form provided by the collector, setting
forth the following information:

(1)	The name of the business

(2)	The names and addresses of each owner

(3)	The exact nature or kind of business;

(4)	The place where such business is to be carried on; and

(5)	Any further information which the collector may require.

(A)(2) shall also register and pay the registration fee described in
Section 5.30.060 of this chapter, but shall be exempt from paying
the general business tax required under Chapter 5.04 of the Munici-
pal Code for any such cannabis business. A cannabis business not
subject to the cannabis business tax imposed by this chapter shall
be subject to the general business tax required under Chapter 5.04
of the Cotati Municipal Code except as otherwise provided by Chap-
ter 5.04 or other applicable law.

B. Tax on Cannabis Manufacturers, Distributors, and Retailers

1.	There is hereby imposed on every person engaged in a cannabis
business in the city as a manufacturer, distributor or a retailer an an-
nual tax at a rate established by resolution of the city council which
rate shall not exceed eight percent (8%) of annual gross receipts.
The tax imposed under this Subsection (B)(1) shall be due and pay-
able in quarterly installments as provided in Section 5.30.070 of this
chapter. The tax imposed under this Subsection (B)(1) shall not be
implemented unless and until the city council acts by resolution to
do so.

2.	The city council may by resolution, in its discretion, implement a tax
rate lower than the maximum rate established in Subsection (B)(1)
for all persons engaged in a cannabis business in the city as a man-
ufacturer, distributor or a retailer, or establish differing tax rates for
different categories of cannabis business. For example, and without

B.	Any financial infoimation required under Subsection A will be used only to
calculate and enforce the tax imposed under this chapter, will be exempt
from disclosure under the Public Records Act pursuant to California Gov-
ernment Code section 6254(i), and will not be used by the city for criminal
enforcement except as provided in Sections 5.30.270 and 5.30.280 of this
chapter.

C.	An annual registration fee of one hundred dollars ($100) shall be presented
with the sworn statement submitted under this section. This fee shall not be
considered a tax and may be adjusted by resolution of the city council.

D.	Unless otherwise specifically provided by the collector in writing, the annual
fee under this section shall be due and payable in advance, on the first day
of January, and shall be considered delinquent if unpaid after the last day
of February. The date on which the fee becomes delinquent may be ex-
tended in writing by the collector, upon good cause shown, to a date not
later than March 31st.

E.	For each cannabis business subject to tax under this chapter, a separate
registration and fee payment shall be required under this section for each
branch or location of the business and for each separate type of cannabis
business at each branch or location.

CONT. NEXT PAGE

49-506

9585

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE G, CONT.

F.	Upon receipt of the registration and fee required under this Section, the
collector shall issue to the cannabis business a Certificate of Registration.
Such Certificate of Registration shall be non-transferrable except as oth-
erwise provided by the collector in writing.

5.30.070. Reporting and Remittance of Tax. The cannabis business tax imposed
by this chapter shall be due and payable as follows:

A.	Each person subject to tax under this chapter, except a cannabis cultiva-
tion tax based on a square footage, shall, on or before the last day of the
month following the close of each calendar quarter, prepare and submit a
tax return and remit to the collector the tax due for that quarter. At the time
the return is filed, the full amount of the tax due for the prior quarter shall be
remitted to the collector.

B.	Each person subject to a cannabis cultivation tax based on a square foot-
age shall, on or before the last day of the month following the close of each
calendar quarter, prepare and submit a tax return and remit to the collector
the tax due for that quarter. The tax shall be calculated in accordance with
rules and regulations established by the collector pursuant to Section
5.30.160. The tax return may include a request for adjustment of the tax
due to crop loss or periods without cultivation, along with evidence sub-
stantiating the crop loss or fallow periods. If the cultivation begins sixty
days or more after January 1 or terminates sixty days or more before
December 31 of the calendar year, a request to prorate the tax may be sub-
mitted with evidence supporting the timing of the cultivation. The decision
to prorate or adjust the tax will be made at the sole discretion of the
collector. At the time the return is filed, the full amount of the tax due for
the prior quarter shall be remitted to the collector.

C.	All tax returns shall be completed on forms prescribed by the collector.

D.	Tax returns and payments for all outstanding taxes owed the city under this
chapter are immediately due and payable to the city of Cotati upon cessa-
tion of business for any reason.

5.30.080. Payments and Communications - Timely Remittance. Whenever
any payment, return, report, request or other communication is due under this
chapter, it must be received by the collector on or before the due date. A postmark
will not be accepted as timely remittance. If the due date falls on Saturday, Sunday
or a city holiday, the due date shall be the next regular business day on which the
city is open to the public.

5.30.090. Payment-When Taxes Deemed Delinquent. Unless otherwise spe-
cifically provided under other provisions of this chapter, the taxes required to be
paid pursuant to this chapter shall be deemed delinquent if not received by the city
of Cotati on or before the due date as specified in Section 5.30.070.

5.30.100. Notice Not Required By City. The city of Cotati is not required to send
a delinquency or other notice or bill to any person subject to this chapter. Failure to
send such notice or bill shall not affect the validity of any tax or penalty or interest
due under this chapter.

5.30.110. Delinquent Registration or Taxes - Penalties and Interest. Penalties
and interest shall be applied according to Section 5.04.200 of this code.

5.30.120. Waiver of Penalties. Waiver of penalties shall be applied according to
Section 5.04.205 of this code.

5.30.130. Refunds. Refunds may be paid pursuant to Section 5.04.260 of this
code.

5.30.140. Exemptions from the Tax.

A.	Testing Laboratories, as defined as license Type 8 under Section 26001 of
the Business and Professions Code, and any successor statute, as may be
adopted or amended from time to time, is exempt from the cannabis busi-
ness tax, but shall be subject to the General Business Tax under Chapter
5.04 of this code.

B.	Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed or construed to apply to any person
transacting and carrying on any business that is exempt from the payment
of such taxes as are herein prescribed by virtue of the Constitution or appli-
cable statutes of the United States or of the State.

C.	Any person claiming an exemption pursuant to this Section shall file a
sworn statement with the collector stating the facts upon which exemption
is claimed. Unless and until the collector determines in writing that such
person is exempt from tax under this chapter, such person shall be liable
for the payment of the tax imposed by this chapter.

D.	This chapter shall not be deemed or construed to require the payment of
any general business tax under chapter 5.04 of this code for any cannabis
business that is subject to payment of a cannabis business tax under this
chapter.

5.30.150. Enforcement. It shall be the duty of the collector to enforce each and all
of the provisions of this chapter, in accordance with the procedures of Section
5.04.210 of this code.

5.30.160. Rules and Regulations. The collector may adopt rules and regulations
not inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter as may be necessary or desir-
able to aid in the implementation and enforcement of the provisions of this chapter.
A copy of any such rules and regulations shall be available for public inspection in
the collector’s office.

5.30.170. Apportionment. If a cannabis business subject to a cannabis business
tax is operating both within and outside the city, it is the intent of the city to apply the
cannabis business tax so that the measure of the tax fairly reflects the proportion of
the taxed activity actually carried on in the city. The collector may adopt administra-
tive procedures for apportionment pursuant to section 5.30.160 of this chapter.

5.30.180. Construction.

A.	This tax is intended to be applied in a manner consistent with the United
States and California Constitutions, state and local law. None of the tax
provided for by this chapter shall be applied in a manner that causes an un-
due burden upon interstate commerce, a violation of the equal protection or
due process clauses of the Constitutions of the United States or the State
of California or a violation of any other provision of the California Constitu-
tion, state or local law.

B.	This chapter shall be construed and implemented consistent with the pro-
visions of chapter 5.04 of this code except as this chapter or other law
otherwise requires or the collector otherwise determines in writing as
authorized under this code.

5.30.190. Audit and Examination of Records and Equipment.

A. The collector shall have the power to audit and examine all books and re-
cords of any person engaged in cannabis business in the city, including
both state and federal income tax returns, California sales tax returns, or
other evidence documenting the gross receipts of persons engaged in
cannabis business, and, where necessary, all equipment of any person en-
gaged in cannabis business in the city, for the purpose of ascertaining the
amount of cannabis business tax, if any, required to be paid under this
chapter, and for the purpose of verifying any statements or any item
thereof when filed by any person pursuant to this chapter. If such person,
after written demand by the collector, refuses to make available for audit,
examination or verification such books, records or equipment as the collec-
tor requests, the collector may, after full consideration of all information
within his or her knowledge concerning the cannabis business and activi-
ties of the person so refusing, make an assessment against the cannabis
business of the taxes estimated to be due under this chapter, following
the procedures set forth in chapter 3.12.090 of this code, except that cal-
culation of any penalties and interest for unreported or misreported gross
receipts shall be in accordance with Section 5.30.110 and appeals shall be
in accordance with Section 5.30.260 of this chapter.

CONT. NEXT PAGE

49-507

9585

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE G, CONT.

B.	The cannabis business being audited shall be liable for the cost of the audit
and all reasonable City administrative expenses related to the audit.

C.	It shall be the duty of every person liable for the collection and payment to
the city of any tax imposed by this chapter to keep and preserve, for a period
of at least three (3) years, all records as may be necessary to determine
the amount of such tax as he or she may have been liable for the collection
of and payment to the city, which records the collector shall have the right
to inspect at all reasonable times.

5.30.200. Other Licenses, Permits, Taxes, Fees, or Charges. Except as ex-
pressly provided in this chapter, nothing contained in this chapter shall be deemed
to repeal, amend, be in lieu of, replace or in any way affect any requirements for
any permit or license required by, under or by virtue of any provision of any other ti-
tle or chapter of this code or any other ordinance or resolution of the city, nor be
deemed to repeal, amend, be in lieu of, replace or in any way affect any tax, fee
or other charge imposed, assessed or required by, under or by virtue of any other
title or chapter of this code or any other ordinance or resolution of the city. Any ref-
erences made or contained in any other title or chapter of this code to any per-
mits, licenses, taxes, fees, or charges, or to any schedule of license fees, shall be
deemed to refer to the permits, licenses, taxes, fees or charges, or schedule of
license fees, provided for in other titles or chapters of this code unless otherwise
expressly provided.

5.30.210. Successor’s and Assignee’s Responsibility.

A.	If any person, while liable for any amount under this chapter, sells, assigns
or otherwise transfers the cannabis business, whether voluntarily or invol-
untarily, the person’s successor, assignee or other transferee, or other per-
son or entity obtaining ownership or control of the business (“Transferee”),
shall satisfy any tax liability owed to the city associated with the business
when due hereunder. Failure to do so for the benefit of the c ity will result in
being personally liable to the city for the full amount of the unpaid tax liabil-
ity, interest and penalties. The Transferee shall notify the collector of the
date of transfer at least thirty (30) days before the transfer date; or if the
agreement to sell, transfer, or otherwise dispose of the business was made
less than thirty (30) days before the date of transfer, notice shall be pro-
vided immediately upon the existence of the agreement.

B.	The Transferee shall be deemed to have complied with the requirement of
this section to satisfy the unpaid tax liability if the Transferee complies with
the requirements of California Revenue and Taxation Code Section 7283.5
by withholding from the purchase price, for the benefit of the city, an
amount sufficient to cover the tax liability, or by otherwise paying the tax
liability and obtaining from the collector a “Tax Clearance Certificate”
showing that all outstanding tax liability has been paid and stating that no
amount is due through the date of transfer.

C.	The collector, within ninety (90) days of receiving a written request from a
Transferee, may issue a “Tax Clearance Certificate” stating either the
amount of tax liability due and owing for the business, or stating that there
is no tax liability due and owing for the business through a stated date. The
collector may also request financial records from the current or former
owner or operator to audit the tax that may be due and owing. The collector
shall issue a Tax Clearance Certificate within 30 days of completing the
audit, stating the amount of the tax liability owed, if any, unless the collector
determines that the records provided in connection with the audit are insuf-
ficient to determine whether taxes are due and owed or in what amount. If
the collector determines that the records are insufficient, the collector may
rely on the facts and information available to estimate any tax liability. The
collector may issue a Tax Clearance Certificate stating the amount of the
tax liability, if any, based on such facts and information available. Unless
an appeal is filed in accordance with Section 5.30.260, the Tax Clearance
Certificate shall serve as conclusive evidence of the tax liability associated
with the property through the date stated on the certificate.

5.30.220. Payment of Tax Does Not Authorize Unlawful Business.

A.	The payment of a tax required by this chapter, and its acceptance by the
city, shall not entitle any person to engage in any cannabis business unless
the person has complied with all of the requirements of this code and all
other applicable state or local laws.

B.	No tax paid under this chapter shall be construed as authorizing the con-
duct or continuance of any illegal or unlawful business, or any business in
violation of any state or local laws.

5.30.230. Deficiency Determinations. If the collector is not satisfied that any tax
return or other statement filed as required under this chapter is correct, or that the
amount of tax is correctly computed, he or she may compute and determine the
amount to be paid and make a deficiency determination upon the facts contained
in the tax return or statement or any information in his or her possession or that
may come into his or her possession within three (3) years of the date the tax was
originally due and payable, or such later date as allowable by law. One or more
deficiency determinations of the amount of tax due for a period or periods may be
made. When a person discontinues engaging in a business, a deficiency determi-
nation may be made at any time within three (3) years thereafter, or such later date
as allowable by law, as to any liability arising from engaging in such business
whether or not a deficiency determination is issued prior to the date the tax would
otherwise be due. Whenever a deficiency determination is made, a notice shall be
given to the person concerned in the same manner as notices of assessment are
given under Section 5.30.250.

5.30.240. Failure to Report - Nonpayment.

A.	Under any of the following circumstances and at any time, the collector
may make and give notice of an assessment of the amount of tax owed by
a person under this chapter:

1.	If the person has not filed a complete return or statement required
under this chapter;

2.	If the person has not timely paid any tax, fee, interest and/or penalties
due under this chapter; or

3.	If the person has not, after demand by the collector, filed a corrected
return or statement, or furnished to the collector adequate sub-
stantiation of the information contained in a return or statement filed
previously.

B.	The notice of assessment shall separately set forth the amount of any tax,
fee, interest and/or penalties known by the collector to be due or estimated
by the collector, after consideration of all information within the collector’s
knowledge concerning the business and activities of the person assessed,
to be due under each applicable section of this chapter.

5.30.250. Tax Assessment - Notice Requirements. The notice of assessment
shall be served upon the person liable for the tax under this chapter either by per-
sonal delivery, or by a deposit of the notice in the United States mail, postage
prepaid thereon, addressed to the person at the address of the location of the
business or to such other address as he or she shall register with the Collector for
the purpose of receiving notices provided under this chapter; or, should the person
have no address registered with the Collector for such purpose, then to such per-
son’s last known address. For the purposes of this section, a service by mail is
complete at the time of deposit in the United States mail.

5.30.260. Appeal Procedure. Any taxpayer aggrieved by any decision of the col-
lector with respect to the amount of tax, fee, interest and penalties, if any, due
under this chapter may appeal to the city manager by filing a written appeal with the
deputy city clerk or city clerk of the Cotati City Council within fifteen (15) calendar
days of the mailing of the decision or determination. The deputy city clerk or city
clerk shall schedule the appeal and give fifteen (15) days’ written notice to the
appellant of the time and place of hearing by serving the notice personally or by
depositing in the United States Post Office in the city, postage prepaid, addressed

CONT. NEXT PAGE

49-508

9585

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE G, CONT.

as shown on the appeal papers or, if none, such other address as is known to the
city or, absent any address, by publication in a newspaper of general circulation in
the city. The city manager shall have authority to determine all questions raised on
such appeal. No such determination shall conflict with any substantive provision of
this chapter. The deputy city clerk or city clerk shall be a separate person from the
city manager.

5.30.270. Conviction for Chapter Violation - Taxes not Waived. The conviction
and punishment of any person for failure to pay a required tax, fee, penalty and/or
interest under this chapter shall not excuse or exempt such person from any civil
action for the amounts due under this chapter. No civil action shall prevent a crimi-
nal prosecution for any violation of the provisions of this chapter or of any state law
requiring the payment of all taxes.

5.30.280. Violation Deemed Misdemeanor. Any person who violates any provi-
sion of this chapter or who other than by a sworn statement, knowingly or intention-
ally misrepresents to any officer or employee of the city any material fact herein
required to be provided is guilty of a misdemeanor punishable as provided in
Section 1.20.010 of the Cotati Municipal Code. A person who on a sworn statement
states as true a material fact that he or she knows to be false is guilty of perjury.

5.30.290. Actions to Collect. The amount of any tax, fee, penalty and/or interest
imposed pursuant to this chapter shall be deemed a debt owed to the city. An action
may be commenced in the name of the city in any court of competent jurisdiction,
for the amount of any delinquent tax, fees, penalties and interest thereon.

5.30.300. Remedies Cumulative. All remedies prescribed under this chapter shall
be cumulative and the use of one or more remedies by the city shall not bar the use
of any other remedy for the purpose of enforcing the provisions hereof.

5.30.310. Amendment. As required by Article XIIIC of the California Constitution,
any amendment that increases the maximum rates of tax beyond the levels autho-
rized in Section 5.30.050 above shall not take effect unless approved by a vote of
the People. The city council may, by resolution, implement a tax under this chapter
in any amount or at any rate that does not exceed the maximum rates set forth in
Section 5.30.050.

5.30.320. Other Taxes and Fees. Except as provided herein, persons required to
pay a tax for transacting and carrying on any business under this chapter shall not
be relieved from the payment of any license tax, permit, charge, assessment, or
fee for the privilege of doing such business required under other laws or regula-
tions of the city, and shall remain subject to the provisions of such other laws and
regulations.

Section 3. Chapter 5.04 of the Cotati Municipal Code is hereby amended as
follows:

Section 5.04.010.D Definitions

5.04.010 D. “Gross receipts” means the total amount of the sale price of all sales,
and the total amount charged or received for the performance of any act, service or
employment of whatsoever nature it may be, for which a charge is made or credit
allowed, whether or not such service, act or employment is done as a part of or in
connection with the sale of materials, goods, wares or merchandise. Included in
“gross receipts” shall be all receipts, cash, credits and property of any kind or
nature, and any amount for which credit is allowed by the seller to the purchaser,
without any deduction therefrom on account of the cost of the property sold, the
cost of the materials used, labor or service costs, interest paid or payable, the cost
of transportation of the property prior to its purchase, or losses or other expense
whatsoever. “Gross receipts” shall also include the estimated value of cannabis
products which are internally transferred between cultivation, manufacturing, dis-
tribution. or retail operations, using a valuation methodology which may be devel-
oped in the sole discretions of the collector, for the purposes of estimating gross
receipts when there is no recorded sale for purposes of the cannabis business tax.
Excluded from “gross receipts” shall be cash discounts allowed and taken on
sales; any tax required by law to be included in or added to the purchase price, and
collected from the consumer or purchaser; and such part of the sale price of property

returned by purchasers upon rescission of the contract of sale as is refunded either
in cash or by credit.

Section 5.04.250.A General License Schedule is hereby amended to add the
following business type:

5.04.250. A. Cannabis testing labs,

Section 4. CEQA. The approval of this Ordinance is exempt from the Cal-
ifornia Environmental Quality Act (California Public Resources Code §§ 21000 et
seq., “CEQA,” and 14 Cal. Code Reg. §§ 15000 etseq., “CEQA Guidelines”). The
cannabis business tax to be submitted to the voters is a general tax that can be used
for any legitimate governmental purpose; it is not a commitment to any particular
action nor does it authorize any private activity, but merely taxes such activity as
otherwise occurs. As such, under CEQA Guidelines section 15378(b)(4), neither
the cannabis business tax nor the general business tax is a project within the
meaning of CEQA because both create a government funding mechanism that
does not involve any commitment to any specific project that may result in a po-
tentially significant physical impact on the environment. If revenue from either tax
is used for a purpose that would have either such effect, the City will undertake
the required CEQA review for that project. Therefore, pursuant to CEQA Guide-
lines section 15060 CEQA analysis is not required at this time.

Section 5. Severability. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, or
phrase of this Ordinance is for any reason held to be unconstitutional or invalid,
such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portion of this Ordinance.
The People of the City of Cotati hereby declare that they would have passed this
Ordinance and every section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irre-
spective of the fact that any one or more sections, subsections, sentences, clauses
or phrases be declared unconstitutional or invalid.

Section 6. Effective and Operative Dates. This ordinance shall take
effect ten (10) days after the election result is certified as provided by Elections
Code but the taxes imposed by this ordinance shall take effect only when and to
the extent implemented by resolution of the city council.

Section 7. Certification; Publication. Upon approval by the voters, the
Deputy City Clerk shall certify to the passage and adoption of this Ordinance and
shall cause it to be published according to law.

49-509

9585

RESOLUTION NO. 2017 - 46
RESOLUTION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF COT ATI (1) ORDERING AND
GIVING NOTICE OF AN ELECTION TO BE HELD ON TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 7,
2017 FOR THE PURPOSE OF SUBMITTING TO COT ATI VOTERS AN ORDINANCE
OF THE CITY OF COTATI ADDING CHAPTER 5.30 TO THE COTATI MUNICIPAL
CODE TO IMPOSE A CANNABIS BUSINESS TAX ON CERTAIN CANNABIS
BUSINESSES OPERATING IN COTATI, AND AMENDING CHAPTER 5.04 TO
IMPOSE A BUSINESS LICENSE TAX ON CERTAIN OTHER CANNABIS
BUSINESSES OPERATING IN COTATI (2) APPROVING BALLOT LANGUAGE, (3)
PERMITTING THE FILING OF BALLOT ARGUMENTS, (4) DIRECTING THE CITY
ATTORNEY TO PROVIDE AN IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS AND (5) SETTING INITIAL

TAX RATES FOR A THREE- YEAR TERM.

WHEREAS, the City of Cotati has responsibly and proactively managed its finances
and its taxpayer dollars through transparent budget and decision-making processes and
recently enacted Measure G to ensure the City’s fiscal stability by securing an additional one
percent (1%) sales tax until 2023; and

WHEREAS, on November 5, 1996, the California voters enacted Proposition 215 to
legalize medical use of cannabis, and in October 2015, the Governor signed into law the
Medical Marijuana Regulation and Safety Act (now known as the Medical Cannabis
Regulation and Safety Act or “MCRSA”), establishing a state licensing framework and
authorizing local regulation of the medical cannabis industry; and

WHEREAS, on November 8, 2016, California voters enacted Proposition 64 to
legalize adult recreational use of cannabis and to allow businesses that support such
cannabis use to operate legally, subject to regulations imposed by state and local public
entities; and

WHEREAS, the State of California Governor’s Office proposed a series of
amendments to the state’s regulatory structure during the budget process, known as “SB 94”,
“the Governor’s Trailer Bill,” in order to better align the requirements of MCRSA and
Proposition 64, now known as the Medical and Adult Use Cannabis Regulation and Safety Act
or “MAUCRSA,”

WHEREAS, the permitting and support of this industry, in association with the earlier
passage of Proposition 215, and the recent enactment of MCRSA and passage of Proposition
64, has significant cost implications for the City due to the substantial costs of adopting and
implementing regulations to govern this new industry, enforcing those regulations, ensuring
public safety, addressing environmental concerns, and providing economic development and
other related services; and

WHEREAS, the City must identify a funding source to support regulation of the
industry while not adversely impacting the general fund in order to maintain consistent
funding and financial stability for essential services such as police and fire protection, 911

emergency response times, streets and road maintenance, affordable housing, recreational
programs and other general city services; and

WHEREAS, the City’s existing general business tax ordinance, which generally
levies a limited business tax on all businesses operating in Cotati, is insufficient to generate
the volume of revenue needed to pay the City’s costs of allowing the new and unique
cannabis industry to operate in Cotati; and

WHEREAS, nearly fifty (50) other California jurisdictions - typically in collaboration
with cannabis businesses - have enacted local measures to impose a general tax on cannabis
business for the privilege of operating within the local jurisdiction; and

WHEREAS, such business taxes are imposed on cannabis businesses, and not directly
on cannabis users or consumers; and

WHEREAS, adopting such a local cannabis business tax measure in the City of Cotati
will benefit residents of the City by ensuring that cannabis businesses contribute reasonably and
fairly to paying for the costs associated with allowing this emerging industry to operate while
allowing the City to continue to maintain stable funding for essential City services and
continued quality of life; and

WHEREAS, the City recognizes the volatility of the newly-legalized cannabis market
and will therefore set limited initial tax rates to balance the financial needs of the City and the
desire of the City to support and encourage the industry to engage in the regulated market;
and

WHEREAS, such a tax measure will provide locally-controlled revenue that cannot be
taken by the State; and

WHEREAS, such a tax measure will help to maintain the City’s long-term financial
stability, with public oversight and annual fiscal reviews; and

WHEREAS, the City of Cotati wishes to continue its policy engagement and
discussions with stakeholders and the public about how cannabis businesses operating in
Cotati should be regulated, while acting quickly and decisively to address any significant
financial disruptions or impact to the City’s General Fund and provision of services to Cotati
citizens; and

WHEREAS, the City Council desires to consolidate the election regarding the
adoption of an Ordinance authorizing the imposition of a cannabis business tax on cannabis
business with the other elections to be conducted by the Sonoma County Registrar of Voters
on the established election date of November 7, 2017; and

WHEREAS, it is desirable that the County Elections Department of the County of
Sonoma canvass the returns of said election and that the elections be handled in all respects
as if there were only one election.

NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF COT ATI
RESOLVES AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1. Pursuant to the requirements and laws of the State of California relating to
general law cities, there is called and ordered to be held in the City of Cotati, California, on
Tuesday, November 7, 2017, a general election.

Section 2. Pursuant to Section 10403 of the California Elections Code, the Board of
Supervisors of the County of Sonoma is hereby requested to consent and agree to
consolidation of said election with the County-wide elections taking place on said date.

Section 3. The City Council proposes an amendment to the City’s Municipal Code, adding
Chapter 5.30 to impose a cannabis business tax on certain cannabis businesses operating
within the City and making corresponding modifications to Chapter 5.04, including
imposing the City’s general business tax on certain other cannabis businesses.

Section 4. The City Council, pursuant to its right and authority, does hereby direct the
Deputy City Clerk to attach the full text of the draft ordinance, attached hereto as Exhibit A
and incorporated herein by reference, to the ballot and orders submitted to the voters at the
said election the following question:

Shall an ordinance be adopted authorizing a City of Cotati
cannabis business tax on cannabis cultivation businesses up to
$25 per square foot of cultivation area (annually adjusted by
CPI) or 8% of gross receipts, and on cannabis manufacturing,
distribution and dispensary businesses up to 8% of gross
receipts, to maintain local City services and address cannabis
industry impacts with all funds subject to annual audits,
generating approximately $300,000 in revenue per year until
repealed?

Yes

No

Section 5. The Mayor is hereby authorized to file a written argument, not to exceed three
hundred (300) words, in favor of the proposed measure, on behalf of the City Council. At the
Mayor’s discretion, the argument may also be signed by members of the City Council or bona
fide associations or by individual voters who are eligible to vote. In the event that an argument
is filed against the measure, the mayor is also authorized to file a rebuttal argument, not to
exceed two hundred fifty (250) words, on behalf of the City Council. The rebuttal argument

may also be signed by members of the City Council or bona fide associations or by individual
voters who are eligible to vote.

Section 6. The County Elections Department is authorized to canvass the return of said
election. The election shall be held in all respects as if there were only one election, and
only one form of ballot shall be used.

Section 7. The Deputy City Clerk is hereby directed to issue instructions to the County
Elections Department to take any and all steps necessary for the holding of the election.

Section 8. The Deputy City Clerk is hereby directed to file a certified copy of this
Resolution with the Board of Supervisors and the County Elections Department of the
County of Sonoma.

Section 9. The polls for the elections shall be open at 7:00 a.m. on the date of the
election and shall remain open continuously from that time until 8:00 p.m. of the same
day, when the polls shall be closed, except as provided in section 14401 of the
California Elections Code.

Section 10. In all particulars not recited in this Resolution, the election shall be held
and conducted as provided by law for holding municipal elections.

Section 11. Notice of the time and place of holding the election is hereby given and the
Deputy City Clerk is authorized, instructed and directed to give further and/or additional
notice of the election, in time, form and manner as required by law.

Section 12. The provisions of California Elections Code section 9285 shall hereby
apply.

Section 13. The Deputy City Clerk is directed to transmit a copy of this resolution to
the City Attorney, who shall prepare an impartial analysis of the measure in accordance
with California Elections Code Section 9280.

Section 14. The Deputy City Clerk shall certify the passage and adoption of this
Resolution and file it with the City's original resolutions.

Pursuant to California Elections Code sections 1000 and 1400, and California
Government Code sections 53723 and 53724, the Council hereby orders an election to

be held in the City of Cotati, California, on Tuesday, the 7^ day of November 2017,
for the purposed of submitting to the qualified voters of the City an ordinance entitled
“AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF COTATI ADDING CHAPTER 5.30 TO THE
COTATI MUNICIPAL CODE TO IMPOSE A CANNABIS BUSINESS TAX ON
CERTAIN CANNABIS BUSINESSES OPERATING IN COTATI, AND AMENDING

CHAPTER 5.04 TO IMPOSE A BUSINESS LICENSE TAX ON CERTAIN OTHER
CANNABIS BUSINESSES OPERATING IN COTATI” in the form attached hereto as
Exhibit A, which is incorporated by this reference as if fully set forth herein. The full
text of the provisions of the Ordinance submitted to the voters shall be available to any
member of the public in the Office of the Registrar of Voters.

1.	Arguments for and against the proposition may be submitted to the qualified
voters of the City in accordance with Sections 9282 through 9287 of the
California Elections Code. The deadline date for submitting ballot arguments
for or against the proposition shall be set by the Deputy City Clerk. Proposed
arguments shall not exceed three hundred (300) words and shall be submitted
to the Office of the Deputy City Clerk. The deadline for submitting rebuttal
arguments shall be set by the Deputy City Clerk. Proposed rebuttal arguments
shall not exceed two hundred fifty (250) words and shall be submitted to the
office of the Deputy City Clerk. The provisions of Section 9285(a) of the
California Elections Code shall apply to the submittal of rebuttal arguments.

2.	Initial cannabis business tax rates, should the proposed ballot initiative pass
on November 7, 2017, shall be set as follows for a term of three (3) years
beginning the day the Ordinance goes into effect:

a.	Cultivation Initial Rate: two percent (2%) of gross receipts or $5.00
per square foot of cannabis cultivation area, at the taxpayer’s
election, except that vertically integrated businesses, as defined in
Section 5.30 of this code, must use the per square foot rate.

b.	Manufacturing Initial Rate: one percent (1%) of gross receipts

c.	Distribution Initial Rate: zero percent (0%)

d.	Retailers Initial Rate: three percent (3%) of gross receipts. Sales to
persons with a physician’s recommendation or a state issued medical
identification card, issued for medical purposes, shall be excluded
from the calculation of gross receipts for the purpose of the cannabis
business tax. Physician’s recommendation means a recommendation
by a physician and surgeon that a patient use cannabis provided in
accordance with the Compassionate Use Act of 1996 (Proposition
215), found at Section 11362.5 of the Health and Safety Code. State
issued medical identification card means a document issued by the
State Department of Public Health that identifies a person authorized
to engage in the medical use of cannabis and the person’s designated
primary caregiver, if any, in accordance with Section 11362.71 of the
Health and Safety Code.

IT IS HEREBY CERTIFIED that the foregoing resolution was duly adopted at a regular
meeting of the City Council of the City of Cotati held on the August 8th, 2017, by the following
vote, to wit:

RESULT:	ADOPTED [UNANIMOUS]

MOVER:	John A. Dell'Osso, Mayor

SECONDER: John C. Moore, Councilmember

AYES:	Skillman, Moore, Dell'Osso, Harvey, Landman

Approved:____________

Mayor

Attest:____________________________

Lauren Berges, City Clerk

Approved as to form:

City Attorney
Attachments:

Attachment A - Cannabis Tax Ordinance (PDF)

ORDINANCE NO.___________

ORDINANCE OF THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF COT ATI ADDING
CHAPTER 530 TO THE COT ATI MUNICIPAL CODE TO IMPOSE A
CANNABIS BUSINESSS TAX ON CERTAIN CANNABIS BUSINESSES
OPERATING IN COTATI AND AMENDING CHAPTER 5.04 TO IMPOSE A
BUSINESS LICENSE TAX ON CERTAIN OTHER CANNABIS BUSINESSES

OPERATING IN COTATI

WHEREAS, the City of Cotati has responsibly and proactively managed its finances
and its taxpayer dollars through transparent budget and decision-making processes and
recently enacted Measure G to ensure the City’s fiscal stability by securing an additional one
percent (1%) sales tax until 2023; and

WHEREAS, on November 5,1996, the California voters enacted Proposition 215 to
legalize medical use of cannabis, and in October 2015, the Governor signed into law the
Medical Marijuana Regulation and Safety Act (known as the Medical Cannabis Regulation
and Safety Act or “MCRSA”), establishing a state licensing framework and authorizing local
regulation of the medical cannabis industry; and

WHEREAS, on November 8,2016, California voters enacted Proposition 64 to
legalize adult recreational use of cannabis and to allow businesses that support such
cannabis use to operate legally, subject to regulations imposed by state and local public
entities; and

WHEREAS, the State of California Governor’s Office proposed a series of
amendments to the state’s regulatory structure during the budget process, known as “SB 94”,
“the Governor’s Trailer Bill,” in order to better align the requirements of MCRSA and
Proposition 64, now known as the Medical and Adult Use Cannabis Regulation and Safety Act
or “MAUCRSA;” and

WHEREAS, the permitting and support of this industry, in association with the earlier
passage of Proposition 215, and the recent enactment of MCRSA and passage of Proposition
64, has significant cost implications for the City due to the substantial costs of adopting and
implementing regulations to govern this new industry, enforcing those regulations, ensuring
public safety, addressing environmental concerns, and providing economic development and
other related services; and

WHEREAS, the City must identify a funding source to support regulation of the
industry while not adversely impacting the general fund in order to maintain consistent
funding and financial stability for essential services such as police and fire protection, 911
emergency response times, streets and road maintenance, affordable housing, recreational
programs and other general city services; and

WHEREAS, the City’s existing general business tax ordinance, which generally

levies a limited business tax on all businesses operating in Cotati, is insufficient to generate
the volume of revenue needed to pay the City’s costs of allowing the new and unique
cannabis industry to operate in Cotati; and

WHEREAS, nearly fifty (50) other California jurisdictions - typically in collaboration
with cannabis businesses - have enacted local measures to impose a general tax on cannabis
business for the privilege of operating within the local jurisdiction; and

WHEREAS, such business taxes are imposed on cannabis businesses, and not directly
on cannabis users or consumers; and

WHEREAS, adopting such a local cannabis industry business tax measure in the City of
Cotati will benefit residents of the City by ensuring that cannabis businesses contribute
reasonably and fairly to paying for the costs associated with allowing this emerging industry to
operate while allowing the City to continue to maintain stable funding for essential City
services and continued quality of life; and

WHEREAS, the City recognizes the volatility of the newly-legalized cannabis market
and will therefore set limited initial tax rates to balance the financial needs of the City and the
desire of the City to support and encourage the industry to engage in the regulated market;
and

WHEREAS, such a tax measure will provide locally-controlled revenue that cannot be
taken by the State; and

WHEREAS, such a tax measure will help to maintain the City’s long-term financial
stability, with public oversight and annual fiscal reviews; and

WHEREAS, the City of Cotati wishes to continue its policy engagement and
discussions with stakeholders and the public about how cannabis businesses operating in
Cotati should be regulated, while acting quickly and decisively to address any significant
financial disruptions or impact to the City’s General Fund and provision of services to Cotati
citizens.

NOW, THEREFORE, THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF COTATI DO ORDAIN AS
FOLLOWS:

Section 1: The above recitals constitute a part of the findings made by the citizens in
enacting this Ordinance.

Section 2. Chapter 5.30 is hereby added to Title 5 of the Cotati Municipal
Code to read as follows:

CHAPTER 5.30 CANNABIS BUSINESS TAX

5.30.010. Title. This ordinance shall be known as the Cannabis Business Tax Ordinance.

5.30.020. General Excise Tax. The cannabis business tax is enacted solely to raise revenue
and not to regulate cannabis activity; regulation of that activity remains the province of the
city council. The cannabis business tax is an excise tax on the privilege of engaging in
cannabis business activity in the city; it is not a sales or use tax. All of the proceeds from the
tax imposed by this chapter shall be placed in the city's general fund and used for general
governmental purposes.

5.30.030. Purpose. This ordinance is adopted to achieve the following purposes, among
others, and shall be interpreted to accomplish those purposes:

A.	To impose an excise tax on certain businesses engaged in the cannabis industry
operating within the City of Cotati pursuant to MAUCRSA and the "California
Control, Regulate and Tax Adult Use of Marijuana Initiative" approved by the state’s
voters on November 8,2016, and/or any other enabling legislation, or in violation of
such legislation, and notwithstanding whether such state laws use the term
"marijuana” or "cannabis;" and

B.	To specify the type of tax and maximum rate of tax that may be levied and the method
of collection; and

C.	To comply with all requirements to impose a general excise tax, such tax to
become operative only if and to the extent implemented by the city council by
resolution.

5.30.040. Definitions. Terms that are not defined in this chapter shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in Chapter 17.90 of the Cotati Municipal Code. The following words and
phrases shall have the meanings set forth below when used in this chapter unless the context
plainly requires otherwise:

A.	"Business" means professions, trades, occupations and all and every kind of calling,
whether or not carried on for profit.

B.	"Cannabis" means all parts of the plant Cannabis sativa Linnaeus, Cannabis indica, or
Cannabis ruderalis, or any other strain or varietal of the genus Cannabis that may exist or
hereafter be discovered or developed that has psychoactive or medicinal properties,
whether growing or not, including the seeds thereof. In addition, and without limiting the
foregoing, “Cannabis” also means cannabis as defined by Section 26001 of the Business
and Professions Code, as may be amended from time to time, and all other applicable
state law.

C.	"Cannabis business" or “cannabis industry” means any business activity in the city
relating to cannabis, including but not limited to cultivation (including nurseries),
transportation, distribution, manufacture, compounding, conversion, processing,
preparation, testing, storage, packaging, delivery and sales (wholesale and/or retail sales)
of cannabis or cannabis products, whether or not carried on for gain or profit. A cannabis
business does not include any business whose only relationship to cannabis or cannabis

products is the production or sale of cannabis accessories.

D.	“Cannabis cultivation area” means the total aggregate area(s) of cannabis cultivation by a
cannabis business as measured around the outermost perimeter of each separate and
discrete area of cannabis cultivation at the dripline of the canopy expected at maturity and
includes, but is not limited to, the space between plants within the cultivation area, the
exterior dimensions of garden beds, garden plots, hoop houses, green houses, and each
room or area where cannabis plants are grown, excluding non-production areas, as
determined by the community development director or designee.

E.	"Cannabis business tax” means the tax due pursuant to this chapter for engaging in
cannabis business in the city.

F.	“Cannabis concentrate” means cannabis that has undergone a process to concentrate one
or more active cannabinoids, thereby increasing the product’s potency. Resin from
granular trichomes from a cannabis plant is a concentrate for purposes of this division. A
cannabis concentrate is not considered food, as defined by Section 109935 of the Health
and Safety Code, or a drug, as defined by Section 109925 of the Health and Safety Code.

G.	"Cannabis product" means any product containing cannabis, including, but not limited to,
flowers, buds, oils, tinctures, concentrates, extractions, edibles and those products
described in Section 11018.1 of the California Health and Safety Code.

H.	"Canopy" means all areas occupied by any portion of a cannabis plant, inclusive of all
vertical planes, whether the areas are contiguous or noncontiguous. The plant canopy
need not be contained to a single parcel of land in determining the total square footage
that will be subject to tax under this chapter.

I.	“City” means the city of Cotati, either the entity or its territorial limits, as the
context requires.

J.	“City Council” or “council” means the city council of the city of Cotati.

K.	"Collector” means the city’s administrative services director or designee.

L.	"Commercial cannabis cultivation" means cultivation conducted by, for, or as part
of a cannabis business. Commercial cannabis cultivation does not include
personal medical cannabis cultivation, or cultivation for personal recreational use
as authorized under the "California Control, Regulate and Tax Adult Use of
Marijuana Initiative" approved by the state’s voters on November 8,2016 and as
amended by MAUCRSA, for which the individual receives no compensation
whatsoever.

M.	"Cultivation" means any activity involving the planting, growing, harvesting,
drying, curing, grading, or trimming of cannabis. “Cultivation” also includes
nurseries. In addition, and without limiting the foregoing, “cultivation” includes
“cultivation” as defined in California Business and Professions Code section

26001 and any successor statute, as may be adopted and amended from time to
time.

N.	"Retailer" means a facility where cannabis or cannabis products, are offered, either
individually or in combination, for retail sale, including an establishment that
engages in delivery of cannabis or cannabis products as part of a retail sale. In
addition, and without limiting the foregoing, “Retailer” includes “Dispensary” as
defined in Chapter 8.24 of this code and retailer as defined in Section 26070 of the
Business and Professions Code including any successor ordinance or statute, as may
be adopted or amended from time to time.

O.	"Distributor" means a person engaged in procuring cannabis from a cultivator,
and/or procuring cannabis products from a manufacturer, for sale to a Retailer. In
addition, and without limiting the foregoing, “distributor” includes “distributor” as
defined in Section 26070 of the Business and Professions Code and any successor
statute, as may be adopted or amended from time to time. "Distribution" means the
procurement, sale, and transport of cannabis and cannabis products between
licensees.

P.	"Employee" means each and every person engaged in the operation or conduct of
any cannabis business, whether as owner, member of the owner's family, partner,
associate, agent, manager or solicitor, and each and every other person employed
or working in such cannabis business for a wage, salary, commission, barter or any
other form of compensation.

Q.	"Evidence of doing business" means when any person shall by use of signs,
circulars, cards, telephone book, or newspapers, advertise, hold out, or represent
that he is in business in the city, or when any person holds an active license or
permit issued by a governmental agency indicating that he is in business in the
city, and such person fails to deny by a sworn statement given to the collector that
he is not conducting a business in the city, after being requested to do so by the
collector, then these facts shall be considered prima facie evidence that he or she is
conducting a business in the city.

R.	"Gross Receipts," means “Gross Receipts” as that term is defined in Section
5.04.010(D) of the Cotati Municipal Code.

S.	“Manufacturer” means a person who conducts the production, preparation,
propagation, or compounding of cannabis or cannabis products either directly or
indirectly or by extraction methods, or independently by means of chemical
synthesis, or by a combination of extraction and chemical synthesis, or who
packages or repackages cannabis or cannabis products or labels or re-labels its
container. In addition, and without limiting the foregoing, “manufacturer”
includes “manufacturer” as defined in California Business and Professions Code
section 26001 and any successor statute, as may be adopted or amended from time
to time.

T.	"Nursery" means a person who produces cannabis clones, immature plants, and/or
seeds for wholesale distribution, used specifically for the planting, propagation,
and cultivation of cannabis. In addition, and without limiting the foregoing,
“nursery” includes “nursery” as defined in California Business and Professions
Code section 26001 and any successor statute, as may be adopted or amended
from time to time.

U.	"Person" means “Person” as that term is defined in Section 5.04.010(B) of the city
of Cotati Municipal Code.

V.	"Personal medical cannabis cultivation" means cultivation, by either a qualified
patient who cultivates cannabis exclusively for his or her personal medical use or
by a caregiver who cultivates cannabis exclusively for medical use by qualified
patients and who is exempt from State licensing requirements under MAUCRSA .

W.	"Sale" means the transfer, in any manner or by any means whatsoever, of title to
real or personal property for a consideration; the serving, supplying, or furnishing
for a consideration of any property; and a transaction whereby the possession of
property is transferred and the seller retains the title as security for the payment of
the price shall likewise be deemed a sale. The definitions in this subsection shall
be deemed to include any transaction which is or which, in effect, results in a sale
within the contemplation of law.

X.	"State" means the State of California.

Y.	"State license" means a state license issued pursuant to California Business &
Professions Code Sections 26000 et seq. or other applicable state law.

Z.	“Vertically Integrated Business,” means a cannabis business with a Type 12
license or any cannabis business holding two or more license types that internally
transfers products between cultivation, manufacturing, distribution, or retail
operations without a recorded sale to determine gross receipts for purposes of the
cannabis business tax.

530.050. Tax Authorized. A cannabis business tax is hereby imposed on every person who is
engaged in cannabis business in the city as prescribed herein, from and after the effective date
of a city council resolution implementing the tax. It is unlawful for any person to transact or
carry on any cannabis business in the city without paying, in accordance with this chapter, the
cannabis business tax imposed by this section.

A.	Tax on Commercial Cannabis Cultivation

There is hereby imposed on every person engaged in commercial
cannabis cultivation in the city, an annual tax at a rate established by
resolution of the city council which rate shall not exceed either $25 per

square foot of cannabis cultivation area or eight percent (8%) of annual
gross receipts The maximum square foot tax shall be adjusted annually
each January 1st based on the year-over-year percentage change in
Bureau of Labor Statistics San Francisco/Oakland/San Jose Consumer
Price Index - All Urban Consumers (CPI-U) October to October
comparison, or if such index is discontinued, a comparable successor
consumer price index as determined by the city council. The tax
imposed under this Subsection (A)(1) shall be due and payable in
quarterly installments as provided in Section 5.30.070 of this chapter.

The tax imposed under this Subsection (A)(1) shall not be implemented
unless and until the city council acts by resolution to do so.

1.	The city council may by resolution, in its discretion, implement a tax rate
lower than the maximum rates set forth in Subsection (A)(1) for all persons
engaged in commercial cannabis cultivation in the City or establish
differing tax rates for different categories of commercial cannabis
cultivation. For example, and without limitation, the city council may set
different tax rates for cannabis cultivation for medical or adult recreational
use, or for indoor rather than outdoor or mixed light cultivation. The city
council may, by resolution, also decrease or increase any such tax rate from
time to time, provided that the tax rate shall not, at any time, exceed the
maximum tax rates established in Subsection (A)(1). An affirmative vote of
at least four (4) members of the city council is required for any tax increase
resulting in a tax rate of over five percent (5%). Tax rates shall be set for a
minimum of a two (2) year term.

2.	Persons subject to the tax imposed by Subsections (A)(1) and (A)(2) shall
also register and pay the registration fee described in Section 5.30.060 of
this chapter, but shall be exempt from paying the general business tax
required under Chapter 5.04 of the Municipal Code for any such cannabis
business. A cannabis business not subject to the cannabis business tax
imposed by this chapter shall be subject to the general business tax required
under Chapter 5.04 of the Cotati Municipal Code except as otherwise
provided by Chapter 5.04 or other applicable law.

B.	Tax on Cannabis Manufacturers, Distributors, and Retailers

1. There is hereby imposed on every person engaged in a cannabis business in
the city as a manufacturer, distributor or a retailer an annual tax at a rate
established by resolution of the city council which rate shall not exceed
eight percent (8%) of annual gross receipts. The tax imposed under this
Subsection (B)(1) shall be due and payable in quarterly installments as
provided in Section 5.30.070 of this chapter. The tax imposed under this
Subsection (B)(1) shall not be implemented unless and until the city
c ouncil acts by resolution to do so.

2.

The city council may by resolution, in its discretion, implement a tax rate
lower than the maximum rate established in Subsection (B)(1) for all
persons engaged in a cannabis business in the city as a manufacturer,
distributor or a retailer, or establish differing tax rates for different categories
of cannabis business. For example, and without limitation, the c ity council
may set different rates for businesses serving medical or adult recreational
use, or for different types of manufacturers, distributors or retailers. The city
council may, by resolution, also decrease or increase any such tax rate from
time to time, provided that the tax rate shall not, at any time, exceed the
maximum tax rate established in Subsection (B)(1). An affirmative vote of
at least four (4) members of the c ity council is required for any tax increase
resulting in a tax rate of over 5%. Tax rates shall be set for a minimum of a
two (2) year term.

3.	Persons subject to the tax imposed by Subsections (B)(1) and (B)(2) shall
also register and pay the registration fee described in Section 5.30.060 of
this chapter, but shall be exempt from paying the general business tax
required under Chapter 5.04 of the Cotati Municipal Code for any such
cannabis business. A cannabis business not subject to the cannabis
business tax imposed by this chapter shall be subject to the general
business tax required under Chapter 5.04 of the Cotati Municipal Code
except as otherwise provided by Chapter 5.04 of the Cotati Municipal Code
or other applicable law.

C.	No further voter approval shall be required for the adoption or increase of a tax
under the authority granted by this Section 5.30.050 of this chapter, it being the
intent of the People of the City of Cotati to authorize such a tax up to and
including the maximum rates set forth above whenever implemented by the city
council hereafter.

5.30.060 Registration of Cannabis Business. All cannabis businesses shall be required to
annually register as follows:

A.	All persons engaging in a cannabis business, whether an existing, newly-
established or acquired business, shall register with the collector within thirty (30)
days of commencing operation or by January 1,2018, whichever is later, and shall
annually renew such registration by January 1 of each year thereafter. In
registering, such persons shall furnish to the collector a sworn statement, upon a
form provided by the c ollector, setting forth the following information:

(1)	The name of the business

(2)	The names and addresses of each owner

(3)	The exact nature or kind of business;

(4)	The place where such business is to be carried on; and

(5)	Any further information which the collector may require.

B.	Any financial information required under Subsection A will be used only to
calculate and enforce the tax imposed under this chapter, will be exempt from

disclosure under the Public Records Act pursuant to California Government Code
section 6254(i), and will not be used by the city for criminal enforcement except as
provided in Sections 5.30.270 and 5.30.280 of this chapter.

C.	An annual registration fee of one hundred dollars ($100) shall be presented
with the sworn statement submitted under this section. This fee shall not be
considered a tax and may be adjusted by resolution of the city council.

D.	Unless otherwise specifically provided by the collector in writing, the annual fee
under this section shall be due and payable in advance, on the first day of
January, and shall be considered delinquent if unpaid after the last day of
February. The date on which the fee becomes delinquent may be extended in
writing by the collector, upon good cause shown, to a date not later than March
31st.

E.	For each cannabis business subject to tax under this chapter, a separate registration
and fee payment shall be required under this section for each branch or location of
the business and for each separate type of cannabis business at each branch or
location.

F.	Upon receipt of the registration and fee required under this Section, the collector
shall issue to the cannabis business a Certificate of Registration. Such Certificate of
Registration shall be non-transferrable except as otherwise provided by the collector
in writing.

5.30.070. Reporting and Remittance of Tax. The cannabis business tax imposed by this
c hapter shall be due and payable as follows:

A.	Each person subject to tax under this chapter, except a cannabis cultivation tax based
on a square footage, shall, on or before the last day of the month following the close of
each calendar quarter, prepare and submit a tax return and remit to the collector the tax
due for that quarter. At the time the return is filed, the full amount of the tax due for
the prior quarter shall be remitted to the collector.

B.	Each person subject to a cannabis cultivation tax based on a square footage shall, on or
before the last day of the month following the close of each calendar quarter, prepare
and submit a tax return and remit to the collector the tax due for that quarter. The tax
shall be calculated in accordance with rules and regulations established by the collector
pursuant to Section 5.30.160. The tax return may include a request for adjustment of
the tax due to crop loss or periods without cultivation, along with evidence
substantiating the crop loss or fallow periods. If the cultivation begins sixty days or
more after January 1 or terminates sixty days or more before December 31 of the
calendar year, a request to prorate the tax may be submitted with evidence supporting
the timing of the cultivation. The decision to prorate or adjust the tax will be made at
the sole discretion of the collector. At the time the return is fded, the full amount of
the tax due for the prior quarter shall be remitted to the collector.

C.	All tax returns shall be completed on forms prescribed by the collector.

D.	Tax returns and payments for all outstanding taxes owed the city under this chapter
are immediately due and payable to the city of Cotati upon cessation of business for
any reason.

5.30.080. Payments and Communications - Timely Remittance. Whenever any payment,
return, report, request or other communication is due under this chapter, it must be received by
the collector on or before the due date. A postmark will not be accepted as timely remittance.
If the due date falls on Saturday, Sunday or a city holiday, the due date shall be the next
regular business day on which the city is open to the public.

530.090. Payment - When Taxes Deemed Delinquent. Unless otherwise specifically
provided under other provisions of this chapter, the taxes required to be paid pursuant to this
chapter shall be deemed delinquent if not received by the city of Cotati on or before the due
date as specified in Section 5.30.070.

530.100. Notice Not Required By City. The city of Cotati is not required to send a
delinquency or other notice or bill to any person subject to this chapter. Failure to send such
notice or bill shall not affect the validity of any tax or penalty or interest due under this
chapter.

5.30.110. Delinquent Registration or Taxes - Penalties and Interest. Penalties and
interest shall be applied according to Section 5.04.200 of this code.

5.30.120. Waiver of Penalties. Waiver of penalties shall be applied according to Section
5.04.205 of this code.

5.30.130. Refunds. Refunds may be paid pursuant to Section 5.04.260 of this code.

5.30.140. Exemptions from the Tax.

A.	Testing Laboratories, as defined as license Type 8 under Section 26001 of the
Business and Professions Code, and any successor statute, as may be adopted or
amended from time to time, is exempt from the cannabis business tax, but shall be
subject to the General Business Tax under Chapter 5.04 of this code.

B.	Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed or construed to apply to any person
transacting and carrying on any business that is exempt from the payment of such
taxes as are herein prescribed by virtue of the Constitution or applicable statutes of
the United States or of the State.

C.	Any person claiming an exemption pursuant to this Section shall file a sworn
statement with the collector stating the facts upon which exemption is claimed.
Unless and until the collector determines in writing that such person is exempt
from tax under this chapter, such person shall be liable for the payment of the tax

imposed by this chapter.

D.	This chapter shall not be deemed or construed to require the payment of any
general business tax under chapter 5.04 of this code for any cannabis business
that is subject to payment of a cannabis business tax under this chapter.

5.30.150. Enforcement. It shall be the duty of the collector to enforce each and all of the
provisions of this chapter, in accordance with the procedures of Section 5.04.210 of this code.

5.30.160. Rules and Regulations. The collector may adopt rules and regulations not
inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter as may be necessary or desirable to aid in the
implementation and enforcement of the provisions of this chapter. A copy of any such rules
and regulations shall be available for public inspection in the collector’s office.

5.30.170. Apportionment. If a cannabis business subject to a cannabis business tax is
operating both within and outside the city, it is the intent of the city to apply the cannabis
business tax so that the measure of the tax fairly reflects the proportion of the taxed activity
actually carried on in the city. The collector may adopt administrative procedures for
apportionment pursuant to section 5.30.160 of this chapter.

5.30.180. Construction.

A.	This tax is intended to be applied in a manner consistent with the United States and
California Constitutions, state and local law. None of the tax provided for by this
chapter shall be applied in a manner that causes an undue burden upon interstate
commerce, a violation of the equal protection or due process clauses of the
Constitutions of the United States or the State of California or a violation of any
other provision of the California Constitution, state or local law.

B.	This chapter shall be construed and implemented consistent with the provisions
of chapter 5.04 of this code except as this chapter or other law otherwise requires
or the c ollector otherwise determines in writing as authorized under this code.

5.30.190. Audit and Examination of Records and Equipment.

A.	The collector shall have the power to audit and examine all books and records of
any person engaged in cannabis business in the city, including both state and
federal income tax returns, California sales tax returns, or other evidence
documenting the gross receipts of persons engaged in cannabis business, and,
where necessary, all equipment of any person engaged in cannabis business in the
city, for the purpose of ascertaining the amount of cannabis business tax, if any,
required to be paid under this chapter, and for the purpose of verifying any
statements or any item thereof when filed by any person pursuant to this chapter. If
such person, after written demand by the collector, refuses to make available for
audit, examination or verification such books, records or equipment as the
collector requests, the collector may, after full consideration of all information

within his or her knowledge concerning the cannabis business and activities of the
person so refusing, make an assessment against the cannabis business of the taxes
estimated to be due under this chapter, following the procedures set forth in
chapter 3.12.090 of this code, except that calculation of any penalties and interest
for unreported or misreported gross receipts shall be in accordance with Section
5.30.110 and appeals shall be in accordance with Section 5.30.260 of this chapter.

B.	The cannabis business being audited shall be liable for the cost of the audit and all
reasonable City administrative expenses related to the audit.

C.	It shall be the duty of every person liable for the collection and payment to the
city of any tax imposed by this chapter to keep and preserve, for a period of at
least three (3) years, all records as may be necessary to determine the amount of
such tax as he or she may have been liable for the collection of and payment to
the city, which records the c ollector shall have the right to inspect at all
reasonable times.

5.30.200. Other Licenses, Permits, Taxes, Fees, or Charges. Except as expressly provided in
this chapter, nothing contained in this chapter shall be deemed to repeal, amend, be in lieu of,
replace or in any way affect any requirements for any permit or license required by, under or
by virtue of any provision of any other title or chapter of this code or any other ordinance or
resolution of the city, nor be deemed to repeal, amend, be in lieu of, replace or in any way
affect any tax, fee or other charge imposed, assessed or required by, under or by virtue of any
other title or chapter of this code or any other ordinance or resolution of the city. Any
references made or contained in any other title or chapter of this code to any permits, licenses,
taxes, fees, or charges, or to any schedule of license fees, shall be deemed to refer to the
permits, licenses, taxes, fees or charges, or schedule of license fees, provided for in other titles
or chapters of this code unless otherwise expressly provided.

5.30.210. Successor’s and Assignee’s Responsibility.

A.	If any person, while liable for any amount under this chapter, sells, assigns or
otherwise transfers the cannabis business, whether voluntarily or involuntarily, the
person’s successor, assignee or other transferee, or other person or entity obtaining
ownership or control of the business (“Transferee”), shall satisfy any tax liability
owed to the city associated with the business when due hereunder. Failure to do so for
the benefit of the c ity will result in being personally liable to the city for the full
amount of the unpaid tax liability, interest and penalties. The Transferee shall notify
the collector of the date of transfer at least thirty (30) days before the transfer date; or
if the agreement to sell, transfer, or otherwise dispose of the business was made less
than thirty (30) days before the date of transfer, notice shall be provided immediately
upon the existence of the agreement.

B.	The Transferee shall be deemed to have complied with the requirement of this section
to satisfy the unpaid tax liability if the Transferee complies with the requirements of
California Revenue and Taxation Code Section 7283.5 by withholding from the

purchase price, for the benefit of the city, an amount sufficient to cover the tax
liability, or by otherwise paying the tax liability and obtaining from the collector a
“Tax Clearance Certificate” showing that all outstanding tax liability has been paid and
stating that no amount is due through the date of transfer.

C.	The collector, within ninety (90) days of receiving a written request from a Transferee,
may issue a “Tax Clearance Certificate” stating either the amount of tax liability due
and owing for the business, or stating that there is no tax liability due and owing for
the business through a stated date. The collector may also request financial records
from the current or former owner or operator to audit the tax that may be due and
owing. The collector shall issue a Tax Clearance Certificate within 30 days of
completing the audit, stating the amount of the tax liability owed, if any, unless the
collector determines that the records provided in connection with the audit are
insufficient to determine whether taxes are due and owed or in what amount. If the
collector determines that the records are insufficient, the collector may rely on the facts
and information available to estimate any tax liability. The collector may issue a Tax
Clearance Certificate stating the amount of the tax liability, if any, based on such facts
and information available. Unless an appeal is filed in accordance with Section
5.30.260, the Tax Clearance Certificate shall serve as conclusive evidence of the tax
liability associated with the property through the date stated on the certificate.

5.30.220. Payment of Tax Does Not Authorize Unlawful Business.

A.	The payment of a tax required by this chapter, and its acceptance by the city, shall
not entitle any person to engage in any cannabis business unless the person has
complied with all of the requirements of this code and all other applicable state or
local laws.

B.	No tax paid under this chapter shall be construed as authorizing the conduct or
continuance of any illegal or unlawful business, or any business in violation of any
state or local laws.

5.30.230. Deficiency Determinations. If the collector is not satisfied that any tax return or
other statement filed as required under this chapter is correct, or that the amount of tax is
correctly computed, he or she may compute and determine the amount to be paid and make a
deficiency determination upon the facts contained in the tax return or statement or any
information in his or her possession or that may come into his or her possession within three
(3) years of the date the tax was originally due and payable, or such later date as allowable by
law. One or more deficiency determinations of the amount of tax due for a period or periods
may be made. When a person discontinues engaging in a business, a deficiency determination
may be made at any time within three (3) years thereafter, or such later date as allowable by
law, as to any liability arising from engaging in such business whether or not a deficiency
determination is issued prior to the date the tax would otherwise be due. Whenever a
deficiency determination is made, a notice shall be given to the person concerned in the same
manner as notices of assessment are given under Section 5.30.250.

5.30240. Failure to Report - Nonpayment.

A.	Under any of the following circumstances and at any time, the collector may make
and give notice of an assessment of the amount of tax owed by a person under this
chapter:

1.	If the person has not filed a complete return or statement required under this chapter;

2.	If the person has not timely paid any tax, fee, interest and/or penalties due under
of this chapter; or

3.	If the person has not, after demand by the collector, filed a corrected return or
statement, or furnished to the collector adequate substantiation of the
information contained in a return or statement filed previously.

B.	The notice of assessment shall separately set forth the amount of any tax, fee, interest
and/or penalties known by the collector to be due or estimated by the collector, after
consideration of all information within the collector's knowledge concerning the
business and activities of the person assessed, to be due under each applicable section of
this chapter.

5.30.250. Tax Assessment - Notice Requirements. The notice of assessment shall be served
upon the person liable for the tax under this chapter either by personal delivery, or by a deposit
of the notice in the United States mail, postage prepaid thereon, addressed to the person at the
address of the location of the business or to such other address as he or she shall register with
the Collector for the purpose of receiving notices provided under this chapter; or, should the
person have no address registered with the Collector for such purpose, then to such person's
last known address. For the purposes of this section, a service by mail is complete at the time
of deposit in the United States mail.

5.30.260. Appeal Procedure. Any taxpayer aggrieved by any decision of the collector with
respect to the amount of tax, fee, interest and penalties, if any, due under this chapter may
appeal to the city manager by filing a written appeal with the deputy city clerk or city clerk of
the Cotati City Council within fifteen (15) calendar days of the mailing of the decision or
determination. The deputy city clerk or city clerk shall schedule the appeal and give fifteen
(15) days’ written notice to the appellant of the time and place of hearing by serving the
notice personally or by depositing in the United States Post Office in the city, postage
prepaid, addressed as shown on the appeal papers or, if none, such other address as is known
to the city or, absent any address, by publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the
city. The city manager shall have authority to determine all questions raised on such appeal.

No such determination shall conflict with any substantive provision of this chapter. The
deputy city clerk or city clerk shall be a separate person from the city manager.

5.30.270. Conviction for Chapter Violation - Taxes not Waived. The conviction and
punishment of any person for failure to pay a required tax, fee, penalty and/or interest under
this chapter shall not excuse or exempt such person from any civil action for the amounts due

under this chapter. No civil action shall prevent a criminal prosecution for any violation of the
provisions of this chapter or of any state law requiring the payment of all taxes.

530.280. Violation Deemed Misdemeanor. Any person who violates any provision of this
c hapter or who other than by a sworn statement, knowingly or intentionally misrepresents to
any officer or employee of the city any material fact herein required to be provided is guilty of
a misdemeanor punishable as provided in Section 1.20.010 of the Cotati Municipal Code. A
person who on a sworn statement states as true a material fact that he or she knows to be false
is guilty of perjury.

530390. Actions to Collect. The amount of any tax, fee, penalty and/or interest imposed
pursuant to this chapter shall be deemed a debt owed to the city. An action may be
commenced in the name of the city in any court of competent jurisdiction, for the amount of
any delinquent tax, fees, penalties and interest thereon.

5.30300. Remedies Cumulative. All remedies prescribed under this chapter shall be
cumulative and the use of one or more remedies by the city shall not bar the use of any other
remedy for the purpose of enforcing the provisions hereof.

5.30310 Amendment. As required by Article XIIIC of the California Constitution, any
amendment that increases the maximum rates of tax beyond the levels authorized in Section
5.30.050 above shall not take effect unless approved by a vote of the People. The city council
may, by resolution, implement a tax under this chapter in any amount or at any rate that does
not exceed the maximum rates set forth in Section 5.30.050.

5.30320 Other Taxes and Fees. Except as provided herein, persons required to pay a tax for
transacting and carrying on any business under this chapter shall not be relieved from the
payment of any license tax, permit, charge, assessment, or fee for the privilege of doing such
business required under other laws or regulations of the city, and shall remain subject to the
provisions of such other laws and regulations.

Section 3. Chapter 5.04 of the Cotati Municipal Code is hereby amended as follows:

Section 5.04.010.D Definitions

5.04.010 D. “Gross receipts” means the total amount of the sale price of all sales, and the total
amount charged or received for the performance of any act, service or employment of
whatsoever nature it may be, for which a charge is made or credit allowed, whether or not such
service, act or employment is done as a part of or in connection with the sale of materials, goods,
wares or merchandise. Included in “gross receipts” shall be all receipts, cash, credits and
property of any kind or nature, and any amount for which credit is allowed by the seller to the
purchaser, without any deduction therefrom on account of the cost of the property sold, the cost
of the materials used, labor or service costs, interest paid or payable, the cost of transportation of
the property prior to its purchase, or losses or other expense whatsoever. “Gross receipts” shall
also include the estimated value of cannabis products which are internally transferred between
cultivation, manufacturing, distribution, or retail operations, using a valuation methodology

which may be developed in the sole discretions of the collector, for the purposes of estimating
gross receipts when there is no recorded sale for purposes of the cannabis business tax. Excluded
from “gross receipts” shall be cash discounts allowed and taken on sales; any tax required by law
to be included in or added to the purchase price, and collected from the consumer or purchaser;
and such part of the sale price of property returned by purchasers upon rescission of the contract
of sale as is refunded either in cash or by credit.

Section 5.04.250.A General License Schedule is hereby amended to add the following business
type:

5.04.250 A. Cannabis testing labs,

Section 4. CEO A. The approval of this Ordinance is exempt from the California
Environmental Quality Act (California Public Resources Code §§ 21000 et seq., “CEQA,” and
14 Cal. Code Reg. §§ 15000 et seq., “CEQA Guidelines”). The cannabis business tax to be
submitted to the voters is a general tax that can be used for any legitimate governmental
purpose; it is not a commitment to any particular action nor does it authorize any private
activity, but merely taxes such activity as otherwise occurs. As such, under CEQA Guidelines
section 15378(b)(4), neither the cannabis business tax nor the general business tax is a project
within the meaning of CEQA because both create a government funding mechanism that
does not involve any commitment to any specific project that may result in a potentially
significant physical impact on the environment. If revenue from either tax is used for a
purpose that would have either such effect, the City will undertake the required CEQA review
for that project. Therefore, pursuant to CEQA Guidelines section 15060 CEQA analysis is not
required at this time.

Section 5. Severability. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase of this
Ordinance is for any reason held to be unconstitutional or invalid, such decision shall not affect
the validity of the remaining portion of this Ordinance. The People of the City of Cotati
hereby declare that they would have passed this Ordinance and every section, subsection,
sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections,
subsections, sentences, clauses or phrases be declared unconstitutional or invalid.

Section 6. Effective and Operative Dates. This ordinance shall take effect ten (10)
days after the election result is certified as provided by Elections Code but the taxes
imposed by this ordinance shall take effect only when and to the extent implemented by
resolution of the city c ouncil.

Section 7. Certification: Publication. Upon approval by the voters, the Deputy City
Clerk shall certify to the passage and adoption of this Ordinance and shall cause it to be
published according to law.