VOTER INFORMATION
GUIDE

ISLA VISTA RECREATION & PARK DISTRICT
SPECIAL MAIL BALLOT ELECTION
MAY 9, 2017

INSTRUCTIONS TO VOTERS

Step 1	Locate	your	OFFICIAL	BALLOT	and	ballot	identification	return

envelope in the mail ballot packet.

Step 2	Read	and	follow	the	Instructions	to	Voters	located	at	the top

of your Official Ballot to vote for your measure choice.

Step 3	After	voting,	remove	the	VOTER	STUB	and	fold	your	ballot

along the fold lines in the manner it was received.

This will be the only official mailing for this election. The OFFICAL BALLOT,
ballot return envelope, and this Voter Information Guide which contains
ballot information and instructions on voting and returning your ballot, are
included in this ballot packet.

DEADLINE TO RETURN BALLOT: Tuesday, May 9, 2017

Step 4	Seal the OFFICIAL BALLOT in the ballot identification return

envelope.

Step 5	CRITICAL!	Sign	and	write	the	date	of	signing	on	the	spaces

provided on the ballot identification return envelope. If you do
not sign your envelope, we cannot count your ballot.

No polling locations have been established for this election.

On Election Day, you can return your ballot to the County Elections Office
between 7:00 am and 8:00 pm.

BALLOT STATUS: Check the status of your returned ballot by calling the
County Elections Office at 805-568-2200.

LZJ QUESTIONS REGARDING VOTING?

D CALL 1-805-568-2200 OR 1-800-SBC-VOTE (1-800-722-8683)

@ TDD: 1-800-833-8683

13 OR VISIT OUR WEBSITE AT: WWW.SBCVOTE.COM

If you are unable to sign your name, you may affix your mark
or use a signature stamp (if used on your affidavit of
registration) in the signature box and have your mark
witnessed by one (1) person who must sign their name next to
your mark in the signature box.

If your name has changed, please sign both your old name
and new name in the signature box.

Step 6	Return	your ballot to the elections official. Your voted ballot

must be received by 8:00 pm on Election Day. Your ballot
can be returned:

By Mail	To	be	received in our office by Election Day or postmarked by

Election Day, May 9 and received in our office by Friday, May 12.

AVISO A LOS VOTANTES

Si usted esta interesado en recibir informacion en espanol relacionada
con el voto, Name con confianza a la Oficina Electoral del Condado. Todo
es gratis. Para pedir informacion electoral en espanol Name al (805) 568-
2200 o al 1-800-SBC-VOTE y se le mandara todo en espanol.

THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION PERTAINING TO THE BALLOT
MEASURE IS PRINTED AS SUBMITTED BY THE AUTHORS.

THE ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF THE MEASURE IS THE OPINION OF
THE AUTHORS.

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS
Measure 02017

This Measure was placed on the ballot by the Board of Directors of the Isla Vista
Recreation and Park District (District), which is the governing board of the District.

If approved by two-thirds of the votes cast by voters voting on the proposition, this
Measure authorizes the District to levy a special tax on parcels within the District.
The Measure states that the annual fixed tax rate would be $.07185 per square
foot for “Non-Residential Units” and $28.75 per bedroom on a parcel for “Dwelling
Units.” The special tax would be collected by the Treasurer-Tax Collector for the
County of Santa Barbara at the same time and shall be subject to the same
interest, penalties, and costs as general ad valorem property taxes.

The Measure provides that the Available Revenues as defined in the Measure
raised by the levy of the tax shall be deposited in a separate account for the
District and used for the following purposes:

A.	To fund proposed capital projects that may include recycled water
infrastructure, safety and recreational lighting infrastructure, repair and
improvements to public park lands and facilities, and operations and
maintenance within the boundaries of the District;

B.	To fund the development and operation, of recreation and cultural
programs for adults and children; and

C.	To set aside as reserves, so long as the funds are planned for use within
the term of the Measure and in a manner consistent with the allocations
provided in the Measure.

The special tax, if approved, would begin on November 1, 2017 and continue for a
period of 10 years.

s/Michael C. Ghizzoni
County Counsel

February 2, 2017

In Person At the Elections Office at 4440-A Calle Real, in Santa Barbara
from 8:00 am to 5:00 pm, Monday-Friday. On Election Day, Tuesday, May 9,
2017 we will be open from 7:00 am to 8:00 pm.

At Drop Box A drive up drop box is located in the parking lot at our Santa
Barbara Elections Office at 4440-A Calle Real. The drop box will be open 24
hours a day, beginning April 10 through 8:00 pm on Election Day, May 9, 2017.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR
Measure 02017

Now is the time to say "YES" to improved parks and programs. Isla Vista
Recreation and Park District (IVRPD) maintains 25 parks and beach access
points in Isla Vista. Governed by an elected Board of 5 Isla Vista residents,

IVRPD employs 10 full time and 8-12 part-time employees.

The mission of IVRPD is to improve and protect the quality of life in Isla Vista
through park stewardship and recreation and cultural programming. These
services are paid for by taxes levied on property owners.

IVRPD maintains over 50 acres of parkland and provides limited recreation
programming for children. Community events and festivals are achieved by
partnering with other agencies, community organizations and student groups.

IVRPD's funding allows for minimal levels of park maintenance; however
infrastructure has deteriorated overtime and needs repair. In addition, regional
water reserves are at all-time lows, and infrastructure for recycled water is
necessary to reduce dependency on local drinking water for irrigation.

Community outreach shows residents desire improved lighting, BBQ areas, more
community gardens, skate park, outdoor exercise equipment for children and
adults, and increased recreation and cultural programming.

To meet the needs and desires of the community, we the undersigned support a
special tax in the amount of $28.75 per bedroom and $.07185 per square foot of
non-residential units to be charged annually to property owners. This mirrors
amounts paid by property owners for a park bond which ended this year.
Effectively, most property owners would not see an increase from their 2015-2016
taxes.

The proposed tax is for ten years and would raise approximately $2,500,000 for
deferred maintenance and improved infrastructure allowing for safer parks and
increased recreational and cultural activities.

It is truly our hope that the residents of Isla Vista will see the great benefit to the
health and vitality of the community, and vote to approve this measure.

The undersigned authors of the Argument in Favor of ballot measure 02017 at
the Special Mail Ballot Election for the Isla Vista Recreation and Park District to
be held on May 9, 2017 hereby state that such argument is true and correct to the
best of their knowledge and belief.

s/Pegeen Soutar, Board Director, Isla Vista Recreation and Park District 2/1/17
s/Paola Dela Cruz, Board Director, Isla Vista Recreation and Park District 2/1/17
s/Ethan Bertrand, Director-Elect, Isla Vista Community Service District 2/1/17
s/Ana Cifuentes, Resident	2/2/17

s/Byron Roos-Collins, Director, Excursion Club at UCSB	2/1/17

TURN OVER FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

FULL TEXT
MEASURE 02017
ISLA VISTA RECREATION AND PARK DISTRICT
ISLA VISTA RECREATION AND PARK DISTRICT 2016 SPECIAL TAX MEASURE

1.	Title and Purpose.

This measure shall be known as the “Isla Vista Recreation and Park District 2017 Special Tax Measure” (“Measure”). The revenues raised by the
Measure are to be used to improve the level of park maintenance, park improvements, and increased recreation and cultural activities provided by the
Isla Vista Recreation and Park District (“District”).

2.	Allocation of Funds.

Available Revenues raised by the levy of the tax authorized by the Measure are to be allocated to the following purposes and shall be deposited into a
separate account for the District, in accordance with Government Code Section 50075.1, and shall be expended according to a plan developed annually,
and approved and adopted by the Isla Vista Recreation and Park District Board of Directors (the “Board”). This plan shall insure a minimum of 50% of the
funds are used for Capital Projects and improvements to infrastructure.

3.	Definition of Purposes.

The Available Revenues shall be used for the following purposes:

A.	To fund proposed capital projects that may include recycled water infrastructure, safety and recreational lighting infrastructure, repair and
improvements to the public park lands and facilities and operations and maintenance within the boundaries of the District;

B.	To fund the development and operation, of recreation and cultural programs for adults and children; and

C.	To set aside as reserves, so long as the funds are planned for use within the term of the Measure and in a manner consistent with the allocations
provided in the Measure.

4.	Amount and Basis of Tax.

This special tax shall authorize the District to levy a special tax as follows:

A.	“Dwelling Units”: $28.75 per Bedroom on a parcel; and

B.	“Non-Residential Units”: $0.7185 per square foot.

This special tax shall begin on November 1, 2017 and continue for a period of 10 years.

This special tax is estimated to raise $256,348.00 in annual local funding for the District based on the amount of the tax for the 2017-18 tax year. The
amount of annual local funding raised by this special tax will vary from year-to-year due to a number of factors, including changes in the number of
parcels subject to the levy. Any proceeds from this special tax not spent during those fiscal years may be spent on all authorized purposes until
exhausted.

5.	Collection and Administration.

The Special Tax shall constitute a lien on real property in accordance with California Revenue and Taxation Code Section 2187. For fiscal year 2016-17,
the lien shall attach at 12:01 a.m. on May 10, 2017 and for subsequent years the lien shall attach at 12:01 a.m. on March 1 preceding the fiscal year for
which the taxes are levied. The Special Tax shall be collected by the tax collector for the County of Santa Barbara at the same time and shall be subject
to the same interest, penalties, and costs as general ad valorem property taxes. The Special Tax on each parcel shall be billed on the secured tax roll
bills, but may be transferred to the unsecured tax roll in accordance with the laws, rules and procedures applicable to general ad valorem property taxes.
Failure to pay on or before the delinquency date shall result in the imposition of penalties, interest, and costs in the same manner as if the taxes were
general ad valorem property taxes. The County of Santa Barbara shall be entitled to deduct the reasonable costs of collection and administration of the
Special Tax before remitting the tax revenues collected to the District.

6.	Exemption.

An exemption from this Special Tax may be granted annually upon application on any of the following:

A.	Any Dwelling Unit or Non-Residential Unit the District is prohibited by law from levying the Special Tax.

7.	Claims and Exemption Procedures.

With respect to all general property tax matters within its jurisdiction, the County of Santa Barbara Treasurer-Assessor shall make all final determinations
of tax exemption or relief for any reason, and that decision shall be final and binding. With respect to matters specific to this Special Tax, within ten (10)
days after the tax bills containing the Special Tax have been mailed, the governing body of the District shall cause a notice of right to appeal to be
published once a week for two consecutive weeks in a newspaper of general circulation within the District. Such notice shall be titled “Notice of Appeal
Procedure for Isla Vista Recreation and Park District 2017 Special Tax”, and shall contain to procedures by which any taxpayer subject to the Special Tax
may appeal the imposition of said Special Tax. The procedures described therein, and any additional procedures established by the District, shall be the
exclusive claims procedures for claimants seeking an exemption, refund, reduction, or re-computation of this Special Tax. The failure of the District to
provide such notice of appeal shall not affect the validity of any tax levied hereunder.

8.	Appropriations Limit.

Pursuant to California Constitution Article XIIIB and applicable laws, the appropriations limit for the District will be adjusted periodically by the aggregate
sum collected by levy of this Special Tax.

9.	Definitions.

The following definitions shall apply throughout this Measure:

A.	“Available Revenues” means the amount of money resulting from the levy of this Special Tax authorized by this Measure after deduction of
authorized charges for services provided by the County of Santa Barbara for the preparation and collection of the tax, legal and audit fees.

B.	“Dwelling Unit” means a space within a building, located on a parcel, used or designed as a separate living space for one or a small group of persons,
including but not limited to, a room or suite in fraternities, sororities, dormitories, rooming houses or other congregate living facilities.

C.	“Bedroom” means a room available for sleeping within a Dwelling Unit.

D.	“Non-Residential Building” means any building, or portion thereof, not containing a Dwelling Unit, located on a Parcel.

E.	“Non-Residential Unit” means a portion of a Non-Residential Building used for a discrete business, service, or other non-residential use.

F.	“Parcel” means the land designated by an assessor’s parcel map and parcel number and carried on the secured property tax roll of the County of
Santa Barbara. For purposes of this Measure, Parcel does not include any land located outside the boundaries of the District.

10.	Savings Clause.

The provisions of this Measure shall not apply to any person, association, or corporation or to any property as to whom or which is beyond the power of
the District to impose the Special Tax. The board of directors of the District hereby declares, and the voters by approving this Measure concur, that every
sentence, clause, section, and part of this Measure has independent value and the Board and the voters would have adopted each provision hereof
regardless of every other provision hereof. If any sentence, clause, section, or part of this Measure or any tax against any individual or and of the several
groups specified herein is found unconstitutional, illegal, or invalid, such unconstitutionality, illegality, or invalidity shall effect only such clause, sentence
or part of this Measure and shall not affect or impair any of the remaining provisions, sentences, clauses, sections, or other parts of this Measure. It is
hereby declared to be the intention of the Board and of the electorate that this Measure would have been adopted had such unconstitutional, illegal, or
invalid sentence, clause, section, or part thereof, not been included.

11.	Incorporation.

In the event the territory of the District is included within an incorporated city that assumes the functions of the District, the Special Tax will continue to be
levied by the governing body of the city, for the purpose and as required by this Measure and shall be applicable to all parcels of land within the
boundaries of the District at the time of incorporation.

12.	Change of Organization.

In the event of a reorganization, annexation, or detachment affecting the District, the Special Tax shall remain in effect and shall be applicable to all
parcels within the boundaries of the District as such boundaries exist at that time.

TURN OVER FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION