ORDINANCE OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF HAWTHORNE ENACTING A
TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX TO BE ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE BOARD
OF EQUALIZATION, SUBJECT TO ADOPTION BY THE ELECTORATE

The City Council of the City of Hawthorne does ordain as follows:

Section 1. TITLE, This ordinance shall be known as the “City of Hawthorne
Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance of 2017,” The City of Hawthorne hereinafter shall be
called "City." This ordinance shall be applicable in the incoiporated territory of the City,

Section 2,	OPERATIVE DATE, "Operative Date" means April 1,2018.

Section 3.	PURPOSE. This ordinance is adopted to achieve the following, among

other purposes, and directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish those
purposes:

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the
provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code and Section 72S5.9 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 which authorizes the City to adopt
this tax ordinance which shall be operative if a majority of the electors voting on the measure
vote to approve the imposition of the tax at an election called for that purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates
provisions identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California insofar as
those provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6
of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax and
provides a measure therefore that can be administered and collected by the State Board of
Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as folly as practicable to, and requires the least
possible deviation from, the existing statutory and administrative procedures followed by the
State Board of Equalization in administering and collecting the California State Sales and Use
Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be
administered in a manner that will be, to the greatest degree possible, consistent with the
provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of
collecting the transactions and use taxes, and at the same time, minimize the burden of record
keeping upon persons subject to taxation under the provisions of this ordinance.

Section 4. CONTRACT WITH STATE. Prior to the operative date, the City shall
contract with the State Board of Equalization to perform all functions incident to the
administration and operation of this transactions and use tax ordinance; provided, that if the City
shall not have contracted with the State Board of Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall
nevertheless so contract and in such a ease the operative date shall be the first day of the first
calendar quarter following the execution of such a contract.

Section 5. TRANSACTIONS TAX RATE. For the privilege of selling tangible
personal property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated territory
of the City at the rate of 0.75% of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible
personal property sold at retail in said territory on and after the operative date of this ordinance.

Section 6. PLACE OF SALE. For the purposes of this ordinance, all retail sales are
consummated at the place of business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is
delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for
delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery
charges, when such charges are subject to the state sales and use tax, regardless of the place to
which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the State or
has more than one place of business, the place or places at which the retail sales are

consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by
the State Boat'd of Equalization,

Section 7. USE TAX RATE. An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or
other consumption in the City of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on and
after the operative date of this ordinance for storage, use or other consumption in said territory at
the rate of 0.75% of the sales price of the property. The safes price shall include delivery charges
when such charges are subject to state sales or use tax regardless of the place to which deliver}' is
made.

Section 8. ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW. Except as
otherwise provided in this ordinance and except insofar as they are inconsistent with the
provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the provisions of
Part I (commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are
hereby adopted and made a part of tilts ordinance as though fully set forth herein.

Section 9. LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF STATE LAW AND
COLLECTION OF USE TAXES. In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing
agency, the name of this City shall be substituted therefor. However, the substitution shall not be
made when:

1.	The word "State" is used as a part of the title of the State Controller,
State Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or the
Constitution of the State of California;

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or
against this City or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by or against the Stale
Board of Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the administration or operation of

this Ordinance.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sections
refemng to the exterior boundaries of the State of Cali foraia, where the result of the substitution
would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales,
storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property which would not otherwise be
exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other consumption remain subject to tax by
the State under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or
other consumption of tangible personal property which would not be subject to tax by the state
under the said provision of that code.

4.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711,
6715, 6737, 6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

B.	The word "City" shall be substituted for the word "State" in the phrase
"retailer engaged in business in this State" in Section 6203 and in the definition of that phrase in
Section 6203.

Section 10. PERMIT NOT REQUIRED, if a seller's permit has been issued to a
retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional transactor's permit
shall not be required by this ordinance.

Section 11. EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS.

A. There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the
use tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or by any city,
city and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Bums Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law
or the amount of any state-administered transactions or use tax,

B.	Th ere are exempted from the coni petal ion of the amount of transactions

(ax the gioss receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum
products, to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the county in which
the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common earners of
persons or property under the authority of the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign
government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the City which is shipped to a
point outside the City, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by the retailer or
his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at such point. For
the purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point outside the City shall be satisfied:

a. With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles)
subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of
the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities
Code, and undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840)
of the Vehicle Code by registration to an out-of-City address and by a declaration under penalty
of perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that such address is, in fact, his or her principal place of
residence; and

b. With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a
place of business out-of-City and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, that
the vehicle will be operated from that address.

3,	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to
furnish the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative
date of this ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of
such property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the property for an
amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, the
sale or lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a
contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the
unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is
exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this ordinance, the
storage, use or other consumption in this City of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a
transactions tax under any state-administered transactions and use tax ordinance.

2.	Other than luel or petroleum products purchased by operators of
aircraft and used or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the use of such
aircraft as common earners of persons or property for hire or compensation under a certificate of
public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to (he laws of this State, the United States, or
any foreign government. This exemption is in addition to the exemptions provided in Sections
6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of California.

3,	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed
price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

4,	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the
tangible personal property arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such property
for any period of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed
by a lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For (he purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section,
storage, use, or other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power over,
tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for
any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to
terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in
business in the City shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchase]- of tangible
personal property, unless the retailer ships or delivers the property into the City or participates
within the City in making the sale of the property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or
receiving the order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer in the City or
through any representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the City under the
authority of the retailer.

7.	"A retailer engaged in business in the City" shall also include any
retailer of any of’the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1
(commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in
compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels registered
under Division 3,5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be
required to collect use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or
aircraft at an address in the City.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit against that
tax any transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district imposing, or
retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code with respect to the sale to the person of the property the storage, use or other
consumption of which is subject to the use tax,

Section 12. AMENDMENTS TO STATE LAW. All amendments subsequent
to the effective date of this ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code
relating to sales and use taxes and which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part of this
ordinance, provided however, that no such amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax
imposed by this ordinance.

Section 13. ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN. No injunction or writ
of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit, action or proceeding in any
court against the State or the City, or against any officer of the State or the City, to prevent or
enjoin the collection under this ordinance, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.

Section 14. SEVERABILITY. If any provision of this ordinance or the application
thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, (he remainder of the ordinance and the
application of such provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

Section 15. EFFECTIVE DATE AND SUBMISSION TO VOTERS. This ordinance
relates to the levying and collecting of City transactions and use taxes and shall take effect
immediately. However, no tax imposed by this ordinance shall be effective unless that tax has
been approved by the by the voters of the City as required by Section 2(b) of Article XllIC of the
California Constitution and applicable law.

Section 16. AUDIT AND REVIEW. The proceeds of the tax imposed pursuant to
this Ordinance, as well as the expenditure thereof, shall be audited annually by an independent
accounting firm. The City Council shall discuss the results of such audit at a meeting of the City
Council that is open to the public. The report of such audit shall be posted on the City’s website.

Section 17. CITIZEN’S OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE. The City Council shall
appoint a Citizens Oversight Committee, which shall have five members. The Citizen’s
Oversight Committee shall review the audit prepared pursuant to Section 16, and may make such
recommendations to the City Council as it deems necessary or useful. The Citizen’s Oversight
Committee may, by a majority vote of its membership, choose to publish an annual report, in
which event such report, if approved by a majority of the members, shall be published on the

City’s internet page. Members of the Citizen’s Oversight Committee shall be appointee! to terms
of a length set by the City Council, and any member may be removed from the Committee prior
to the end of his or her term by a unanimous vote of the Council, In the event the City Council,
the Citizen’s Oversight Committee, the City, any employee of the City, or any member of the
City Council or the Citizen’s Oversight Committee fails to take an action required by this
Section, any court of competent jurisdiction may order that the action be taken, However, such
failure to act shall not invalidate the City’s authority to levy any tax or in any way affect the
ongoing collection of any tax pursuant to this Ordinance.

Section 18. TERMINATION AND REPEAL. The authority to levy the taxes
imposed by this ordinance shall continue indefinitely unless this ordinance is earlier repealed.
This ordinance may be repealed by ordinance of the City Council.

Section 19. DECLARATION. The proceeds of the taxes imposed by this ordinance
may be used for any lawful purpose of the City, as authorized by ordinance, resolution or action
of the City Council or by Ordinance adopted by the electorate of the City. These taxes do not
meet the criteria established by Section 1(d) of Article XIIIC of the California Constitution for
special taxes, and are general taxes imposed for general government purposes

PASSED, APPROVED, and ADOPTED this ^Way of June, 2017.

ATTEST:

/%

,frvAR(?AS, MAYOR

A LTrXV ARC A S, MAYOR	/,

City of Hihvthorne, California

D . -x. .. ,

X	Y

NORBERT HUF^R,

CIJTY CLERK

City of Hawthorne, California

APPROVED AS TO FORM:

RUSSELL 1. MIYAHIRA'
CITY ATTORNEY V
City of Hawthorne, California

STATE OF CALIFORNIA )
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES) §
CITY OF HAWTHORNE )

I, Monica Dicrisci, the duly appointed Deputy City Clerk of the
City of Hawthorne, California, DO HEREBY CERTIFY that the
foregoing Ordinance, No. 2144 was duly adopted by the City
Council of the City of Hawthorne, at their regular meeting of
the City Council held June 27, 2017 and that it was adopted by
the following vote, to wit:

AYES: Councilmembers Awad, Reyes English, Valentine, Mayor
Vargas.

NOES: None.

ABSTAIN: None.

ABSENT: Counciimember Micheiin.

	
D-€	putf'CTTy^l-er-l^--

City of Hawthorne, California

RESOLUTION NO. 7947

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OF HAWTHORNE, CALIFORNIA, RECITING
THE FACTS OF THE SPECIAL MUNICIPAL
ELECTION RE: BALLOT MEASURE HH, HELD IN
SAID CITY ON TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2017 AND
DECLARING THE RESULTS THEREOF AND SUCH
OTHER MATTERS AS ARE PROVIDED BY LAW.

WHEREAS, on June 13, 2017, the City Council adopted Resolution No. 7904

regarding the submittal of the following questions (aka as Measure HH) to the voters of

the City of Hawthorne:

To fund general city services, such as police, fire, senior services,

streets, parks, paramedics, 9-1-1, anti-gang units, and other general city

services , shall the City of Hawthorne Transactions and Use Tax	Yes

Ordinance of 2017 be approved, imposing a 0.75% transactions and use

(sales) tax, with annual audit and appointment of a Citizen’s Oversight No

Committee, to be collected until repealed by the voters or the City

Council and estimated to raise approximately $8.5 million per year?”_______

WHEREAS, a special municipal election was held and conducted in the City of
Hawthorne, California, on Tuesday, November 7, 2017, as required by law; and

WHEREAS, the election was consolidated with the local and municipal
consolidated elections and the Registrar-Recorder of the County of Los Angeles
canvassed the returns of said election and has certified the results to this City Council,
and said results are received, attached and made a part hereof as "'Exhibit A”; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Election Code section 10264(c), the number of votes
given at each precinct to each candidate are provided in Exhibit A and is attached and
made a part hereof; and

WHEREAS, notice of said election was given in time, form and manner as
provided by law, and that in all respects said election was held and conducted and the
votes were cast, received and canvassed and the returns made and declared in time, form
and manner as required by the provisions of the Election Code of the State of California.

Resolution No. 7947

NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
HAWTHORNE, CALIFORNIA, does hereby resolve, declare, determine and order as
follows:

SECTION 1. That the whole number of votes cast in the City relative to Measure
HH except absent voter ballots was 1673. That the whole number of absent voter ballots
cast in the City was 2354 making a total of 4027 votes cast in the City.

SECTION 2. That a total of 2745 votes in favor Measure HH was received and
that a total of 1239 votes was received against Measure HH.

SECTION 3. The City Council does declare and determine that the voters of the
City of Hawthorne have approved Measure HH adopting Ordinance No. 2144
(“Ordinance of the City of Hawthorne Enacting A Transactions & Use Tax to be
Administered by the State Board of Equalization, Subject to Adoption by the
Electorate”).

SECTION 4. That the City Clerk shall immediately certify to the passage and
adoption of this Resolution and enter it into the book of original Resolutions.

PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTEDjhis 28™ day of November, 2017.

/I / /V.

ATTEST:

City of Hawthorne

APPROVED AS TO FORM:

City Attorney
City of Hawthorne

Resolution No. 7947

STATE OF CALIFORNIA )
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES) §
CITY OF HAWTHORNE )

L Monica Dicrisci, the duly appointed Deputy City Clerk of the
City of Hawthorne, California, DO HEREBY CERTIFY that the
foregoing Resolution, being Resolution No. 7947 was duly
adopted by the City Council of the City of Hawthorne, at the
regular meeting of the City Council held November 28, 2017
and that it was adopted by the following vote, to wit:

AYES: Councilmembers Awad, Michelin, Valentine,

Mayor Vargas.

NOES: None.

ABSTAIN: None.

ABSENT: Councilmember Reyes English.

Deputy City Clerk

City of Hawthorne, California

DEAN C. LOGAN

ftegistrar-Recorder/County Clerk

November 20, 2017

Mr. Norbert Huber, City Clerk
City of Hawthorne
4455 West 126th Street
Hawthorne, California 90250

Dear Mr. Huber:

Enclosed are the Official Canvass Certificate and the Official Statement of Votes Cast by precinct for the
City of Hawthorne Special Municipal Election consolidated with the Local and Municipal Consolidated
Elections held on November 7, 2017.

Please call the Election Planning Section at (562) 462-2317, if you have any questions.

Sincerely,

DEAN C. LOGAN
Registrar-Recorder/County Clerk

FRANCIS GUIJARO, Head
Election Planning Section

Enclosures

Official Canvass Certificate
Official Statement of Votes Cast

IjVMrF.Miv'flin'wusCmCiijirtm





Certificate of the Canvass of the Electku Returns

I, DEAN C. LOGAN, Registrar-Recorder/County Clerk of the County of
Los Angeles, of the State of California, DO HEREBY CERTIFY that pursuant to the
provisions of Section 15300 et seq> of the California Elections Code, I did canvass the
returns of the votes cast for each elective office and/or measure(s) for

at the Local and Municipal Consolidated Elections, held on the 7th day of November 2017.

I FURTHER CERTIFY that the Statement of Votes Cast, to which this certificate
is attached, shows the total number of ballots cast in said jurisdiction, ami that the
whole number of votes cast for each candidate and/or measure(s) in said jurisdiction
in each of the respective precincts therein, and the totals of the respective columns
and the totals as shown for each candidate and/or measure(s) are full, true and correct.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed my seal this
20th day of November 2017,

Registrar-Recorder/County Clerk
County of Los Angeles

COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES-	LOCAL AND MUNICIPAL CONSOLIDATED ELECTIONS										11/07/17			14.1	-PAGE-	40 of 75
FINAL OFFICIAL STATEMENT OF VOTES CAST BY PRECINCT				HAWTHORNE CITY SPEC MUNI MEASURE HH												
LOCATION		REGIST-  RATION	BALLOTS  CAST			£										
HAWTHORNE-2700001A		3982	172		136	36										
VOTE BY MAIL	SERIAL 0065	0	173		132	39										
TOTAL		3982	345		268	75										
HAWTHORNE - 270001OA		2406	124		87	37										
VOTE BY MAIL	SERIAL 0066	0	176		109	65										
TOTAL		2406	300		196	102										
HAWTHORNE-2700014A		2772	67		55	11										
VOTE BY MAIL	SERIAL 0067	0	137		100	36										
TOTAL		2772	204		155	47										
HAWTHORN E - 2700017A		2729	95		67	26										
VOTE BY MAIL	SERIAL 0068	0	114		81	30										
TOTAL		2729	209		148	56										
HAWTHORNE - 2700018A		1588	81		58	23										
VOTE BY MAIL	SERIAL 0069	0	65		42	23										
TOTAL		1588	146		100	46										
HAWTHORNE-2700021A		2404	74		56	18										
VOTE BY MAIL	SERIAL 0070	0	71		45	23										
TOTAL		2404	145		101	41										
HAWTHORNE-2700025A		3618	250		158	90										
VOTE BY MAIL	SERIAL 0071	0	204		177	104										
TOTAL		3618	534		335	194										
HAWTHORNE - 2700029A		2846	52		40	11										
VOTE BY MAIL	SERIAL 0072	0	99		68	29										
TOTAL		2846	151		108	40										
HAWTHORNE-2700041A		3168	289		176	111										
VOTE BY MAIL	SERIAL 0073	0	563		367	191										
TOTAL		3168	852		543	302										
HAWTHORNE-2700091A		3931	110		80	29										
VOTE BY MAIL	SERIAL 0074	0	159		104	53										
TOTAL		3931	269		184	82										
HAWTHORNE -2700092A		1609	150		121	27										
VOTE BY MAIL	SERIAL 0075	0	150		124	24										
TOTAL		1609	300		245	51										
HAWTHORNE-2700095A		2767	152		96	55										
VOTE BY MAIL	SERIAL 0076	0	220		123	94										
TOTAL		2767	372		219	149										
HAWTHORNE-2700106A		4038	57		44	13										
VOTE BY MAIL	SERIAL 0077	0	143		99	41										
TOTAL		4038	200		143	54										

COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - LOCAL AND MUNICIPAL CONSOLIDATED ELECTIONS									11/07/17			142	-PAGE-	41 of 75
			HAWTHORNE CITY SPEC MUNI											
			MEASURE HH											
FINAL OFFICIAL STATEMENT OF VOTES CAST BY PRECINCT														
LOCATION	REGIST-  RATION	BALLOTS  CAST		£										
PRECINCT TOTAL	37858	1673	1174	487										
VBM TOTAL	0	2354	1571	752										
GROUPTOTAL	0	0	0	0										
GRAND TOTAL	37858	4027	2745	1239										

Measure H will provide vital funding for the City of Hawthorne to maintain local police and fire
protection, paramedics, 9-1-1 emergency response times, anti-gang and anti-drug police units; repair
streets, potholes, and street lights; trim trees; reduce homelessness; remove graffiti; protect drinking
water supplies; and prevent cuts to programs for seniors, youth, and parks.

EMERGENCY RESPONSE TIMES

Most calls to the Fire Department are related to medical emergencies. Future reductions to fire services
could result in some neighborhoods experiencing longer response times. This measure wifi keep fire
stations open, and ensure firefighters and paramedics can quickly respond to emergencies and save
lives.

NEIGHBORHOOD SAFETY

Right now, the Hawthorne Police Department is operating with far fewer officers than recommended,
and that number could rise as our population grows. Measure H provides vital funding to retain and
recruit officers so neighborhoods and streets are safer, community policing expands, and emergency
response times improve.

YES on Measure H prevents dangerous cuts to neighborhood and school patrols, understaffed anti-gang
units, and crime prevention programs that keep kids off the streets and out of trouble.

STREETS, PARKS, & PROGRAMS

YES on Measure H funds critical road repairs, including repaving and pothole filling, fixing sidewalks and
street lights, trimming trees, and keeping parks open and clean. It also funds programs protecting our
drinking water supplies, removing graffiti, reducing homelessness, and engaging our seniors and youth.

ACCCOUNTABILITY & TRANSPARENCY

Measure H includes strict accountability—annua! independent financial audits and a Citizen's Oversight
Committee. Ail funds will remain in the City of Hawthorne, and cannot be taken by the State. These
fiscal safeguards will ensure funds are used efficiently, effectively, and as promised.

Join Hawthorne Police, Firefighters and Emergency Responders, Small Businesses, Neighborhood and
Community Leaders: Vote YES on Measure H. www.YESonMeasureH.info

Impartial Analysis of Measure U/=1

Russell Miyahira, City Attorney

If approved by a majority of voters, this measure would impose a three-quarters of one percent
(0.75%) transactions and use tax in the City of Hawthorne. This sort of tax is commonly referred
to by members of the public as a “local sales tax.” On a $100 sale of taxable goods, the total
new tax would be seventy-five cents. This is in addition to existing state, county, and municipal
sales and use taxes.

The transactions and use tax would generally be collected by retailers along with existing sales
taxes or payable to the State Board of Equalization along with the existing use taxes. Generally,
transactions that are exempt from the statewide sales tax (or the statewide use tax) are also
exempt from the new tax. Therefore, the tax would not apply to most sales of unheated food
from grocery stores and other stores; to most sales of prescription medicines; to sales of gas,
electricity, or water; to charges for most services; or to sales of real property. Sales and leases of
vehicles, vessels and aircraft, would be taxed not based on the point of sale, but based on the
location where the vehicle, vessel or aircraft will be registered.

The tax would be administered for the City by the State Board of Equalization. Proceeds of the
tax, aside from administrative expenses retained by the State Board of Equalization, would be
available to the City for any lawful municipal purpose. Examples of permissible municipal
expenditures include police, fire, senior services, streets, parks, paramedics, 9-1-1, and anti-gang
units.

The measure requires an independent annual financial audit of the revenue generated by this
measure. The measure also requires the appointment of a Citizen’s Oversight Committee, which
would review the annual audit and make recommendations to the City Council.

Collection of the tax would begin on April 1, 2018. Collection would continue unless the tax is
repealed by the City Council or by the voters. The tax is anticipated to generate $8.5 Million in
revenue per year.

This measure was placed on the ballot by the City Council of the City of Hawthorne. A “yes”
vote is a vote to approve the City of Hawthorne Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance of 2017,
which would impose the tax. A “no” vote is a vote against Ordinance.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure A. If you desire a copy of the City
of Hawthorne Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance of 2017, please call the Office of the
City Clerk at 310-349-2915 and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you.

LOS ANGELES COUNTY
REGISTRAR-RECORDER/COUNTY CLERK

ELECTION COORDINATION UNIT
(562) 462 - 2912

LOCAL AND MUNICIPAL CONSOLIDATED ELECTIONS

NOVEMBER 7, 2017

MEASURES APPEARING ON THE BALLOT

LOCAL JURISDICTION MEASURES - (11)

ANTELOPE VALLEY HEALTH CARE DISTRICT

|-|	-	Shall the proposed lease and transfer of Antelope Valley Hospital by the elected Board

of The Antelope Valley Health District to a public benefit non-profit corporation, pursuant
to state law, for the continued operation of the Hospital as a non-profit and locally
governed Hospital, with all revenues from the Hospital reinvested into improving the
Hospital facilities, to improve medical technologies, treatments, and patient care without
any new taxes or fees and at no additional cost to taxpayers, be adopted?

COMPTON CITY

^	-	Shall the Compton City Charter be amended to set the salary of Council members to

$43,000, and to set the Mayor’s annua! salary to $54,000?

EL MONTE CITY

EM ~ El Monte Temporary City Services Preservation Measure. To preserve and stabilize
funding for various essential City services such as fire and emergency response
services; police staffing; street maintenance; senior and youth programs; park
maintenance; graffiti removal; State-mandated storm drain upgrades; and to restore the
City’s “rainy day” general fund reserves, shall the City’s existing half percent (1/2%)
transactions and use tax be extended for ten years, subject always to the voters’ power
of repeal?

GLENDORA UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT

GG - To upgrade and modernize classrooms, science labs, career training facilities, computer
systems, and instructional technology to support high quality instruction/student
achievement in science, technology, engineering, math/skilled trades, acquire,
construct, and repair classrooms, facilities, sites/equipment, repair aging plumbing,
electrical, heating/ventilation systems, improve student safety and campus security
systems, shall Glendora Unified School District issue $98,000,000 in bonds at legal
interest rates, with independent citizen oversight, no money for administrator salaries
and all money staying local?

HAWTHORNE CITY

HH - To fund general city services, such as police, fire, senior services, streets, parks,
paramedics, 9-1-1, anti-gang units, and other general city services , shall the City of
Hawthorne Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance of 2017 be approved, imposing a
0.75% transactions and use (sales) tax, with annual audit and appointment of a Citizen’s
Oversight Committee, to be collected until repealed by the voters or the City Council and
estimated to raise approximately $8.5 million per year?

S:\ECSWVORD\W006MeasuresAppearing\2017\LocalandMunicipalConsolidatedE!ections\MeasuresAppearingonBallot11717.doc

Page 1 of 2