RESOLUTION 17-08
OF

RESORT IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT NO. 1 AND SHELTER COVE SEWER AND
OTHER FACILITIES MAINTENANCE DISTRICT NO. 1, CALLING A SPECIAL
ELECTION TO SUBMIT TO THE VOTERS OF THE DISTRICT THE ADOPTION OF
AN ORDINANCE PROPOSING A NEW ADDITIONAL FIRE PROTECTION SPECIAL
TAX MEASURE, AND ORDERING THAT THE SPECIAL ELECTION BE
CONSOLIDATED WITH THE DISTRICT ELECTION TO BE CONDUCTED ON

NOVEMBER 7TH, 2017

WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 13070(c), of Chapter 5, Powers, of Division 11, Resort
Improvement District Law, of the California Public Resources Code, the Resort Improvement
District No. 1 and Shelter Cove Sewer and Other Facilities Maintenance District No. 1 (the
"District”) is authorized to exercise any of the powers, functions, and duties which are vested in,
or imposed upon, a fire protection district pursuant to the Fire Protection District Law of 1987,
Part 3 (commencing with Section 13800) of Division 12 of the Health and Safety Code, and the
Shelter Cove Fire Department is a Department of the District and provides fire protection
services throughout the Shelter Cove area; and

WHEREAS, the Shelter Cove Fire Department is a full-service fire department and provides
additional unique services that are essential to Shelter Cove, including Advanced Life Support
emergency medical services, ocean rescue, and emergency medical transport when the situation
warrants; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the authority of Sections 13911 and 13913 of the California Health and
Safety Code, and other applicable law, the District may levy a special tax on all parcels of real
property in the District for the purpose of providing fire protection and emergency services,
subject to the approval by a two-thirds vote of the qualified voters of the District voting in an
election on the issue; and

WHEREAS, the special tax of $25 per parcel approved by the qualified voters of Shelter Cove
in 1995, specifically for fire protection purposes, has not been increased over the years while the
cost of providing high quality fire protection and advanced life support services have steadily
increased. The revenue to the District from the tax has actually decreased due to parcel mergers,
which has reduced the total number of taxable parcels in the District; and.

WHEREAS, Shelter Cove is isolated within the Kings Range National Conservation Area and is
unable to receive expeditious mutual aid due to this seclusion, the community of Shelter Cove
relies on the fire department as the sole provider for many disciplines from firefighting and
emergency medical services, to ocean rescue and vehicle extrication. These disciplines are costly
to offer to the community. After reviewing the current budget’s short falls and planning for the
future, the Shelter Cove Fire Department has devised an annual budgetary goal of approximately
$430,000 to fund the department into the future. The new additional Fire Protection Tax will be
specifically used for the purpose of obtaining, furnishing, operating and maintaining fire protection,
suppression and emergency medical services If this tax increase is voted in. the community of

Shelter Cove will have a modern, well-funded, well equipped, well-trained and proficient fire
department to serve and protect the people and property of Shelter Cove; and

Whereas, the additional special tax if approved shall be levied once during the 2018/19 fiscal
year at flat rates based on the use of each taxable parcel of real property, in accordance with the
schedule below, and then levied once during each fiscal year thereafter, as follows:

A.

B.

C.

D.

E.

Parcel Use

Residential Dwelling:
Commercial Residential:
Commercial Building:
Vacant Residential:
Vacant Commercial:

Current Tax Rate

$25 per fiscal year.
$25 per fiscal year.
$25 per fiscal year.
$25 per fiscal year

Proposed Additional
Tax

$100 per fiscal year
$225 per fiscal year
$225 per fiscal year
$74 per fiscal year
$74 per fiscal year

$25 per fiscal year
A. Residential Dwelling: Any building or structure which is occupied
for living purposes with the exception of duplex, triplex, fourplex, etc.,
hotel or motel

2018/19 Total Tax
Including Additional

$125 per fiscal year.
$250 per fiscal year.
$250 per fiscal year.
$99 per fiscal year.
$99 per fiscal year,
or intended to be used
or apartment house.

B.	Commercial Residential: Any apartment house, condominium, hotel, motel, or any other
building or structure containing two or more residential units.

C.	Commercial Buildings: Any building or structure used or intended to be used for storage,
wholesale (other than wholesale nurseries), retail or other commercial activities.

D.	Vacant Residential Lot: Any uninhabited or vacant ground or property which is intended
to be used or developed for dwelling.

E.	Vacant Commercial Lot: Any uninhabited or vacant ground or property which is intended to
be used or developed for any commercial building or development of any

WHEREAS, the reason for the different tiers of the tax are due to the cost of equipment and
training for protecting a house vs. a vacant lot. The increase to the commercial properties is due
to the size, manner of use (restaurant, store, hotel), and visitors these properties attract. This
again adds to the training and equipment needed to protect these commercial properties, and

WHEREAS, pursuant to its rights and authority under State law, the Board of Directors of the
District may call a Special Election to be held in the District on November 7th, 2017 for the
purpose of submitting a ballot measure to the voters of the District; and

NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Directors of the Resort
Improvement District No. 1 as follows:

SECTION 1. The foregoing findings are true and correct:

Over the last 22 years since the $25 annual Shelter Cove Fire Parcel tax was voted in, the
community of Shelter Cove has grown and changed with the times. This parcel tax should be the
sole funding for the Shelter Cove Fire Department, but the department is currently being

Resort Improvement District Resolution 17-08 Page | 2

subsidized by other District funds. The Shelter Cove Fire Department can't keep up with the
emergency response needs of this community at the current 22-year old tax rate. All aspects of
the fire department's operations have seen a large increase in cost over the last 22 years. Call
volume and fire danger have also increased in 22 years as well as the number of retirement age
community members needing special and increased medical care. The Shelter Cove Fire
Department is proposing a new additional parcel tax to meet the current Fire Department needs.
The proposed tax is a special parcel tax with three-tiers reflecting the Shelter Cove Fire
Departments cost of protecting life and property associated with property type. The proposed tax
rates are as follows $99 for a vacant parcel, $125 for a parcel with one residence and $250 for a
commercial residential parcel (multi-family) or commercial parcel with a home or business. Due
to the increase of operation costs and the current budget decreasing due to lots being combined
or bought by the District, these tax rates have been determined to be reasonable by the Shelter
Cove Fire Department. The tax will be collected by the County of Humboldt Treasurer-Tax
Collector in the same manner and subject to the same penalty as other taxes collected by the
District, and the effective date will be July 2018.

SECTION 2. The Board of Directors of the District has adopted an ordinance (Ordinance No. 74)
authorizing an additional special tax for fire protection provided by the District, which ordinance
will take effect if it is approved by two-thirds of the voters of the District voting upon it, and a
copy of said ordinance is attached hereto as Exhibit “A,! and is incorporated herein by this
reference. The full text of Ordinance No. 74 shall be printed on the voter pamphlet.

SECTION 3. Pursuant to Elections Code Section 12001 and Government Code Section 53978 a
special election is hereby called and ordered to be held within the District on November 7th,
2017, to submit to the voters of the District whether Ordinance 74 hereby attached as Exhibit
“A” should be approved and orders the following question to be submitted to the voters at the
Special District Election:

Resort Improvement District No. 1 Emergency YES
Services Protection Parcel Tax Measure__.

In order to sustain the Shelter Cove Fire

Department with the right equipment and	_____

training and to maintain rapid fire protection NO
and emergency medical response, shall an
additional annual special tax of $74 for vacant
parcels, $100 for residential dwellings, $225
for commercial businesses and multi-family
buildings, raising $329,150 annually, be
imposed beginning July 2018. remaining in
effect until ended by voters, with all funds used
exclusively for Fire Department activities?

SECTION 4. Pursuant to Elections Code sectionl0400 et seq., the special election called by this
resolution shall be, and is hereby ordered to be consolidated with the District election to be held
on November 7th, 2017

SECTION 5. Specific purpose of the special tax:

The new additional Fire Protection Tax will be specifically used for the purpose of obtaining,
furnishing, operating and maintaining fire protection, suppression and emergency medical
services. The additional levy will raise $329,150 per year and will be reviewed after ten years.

SECTION 6. The District recognizes the following requirements:

•	the special tax only be applied to the specific purpose identified above.

•	requirement that a specific account be created.

•	requirement that an annual report be prepared that identifies the amount that is expended
during the year and the status of any projects that are associated with the specific purpose
of the special tax.

SECTION 7. Notice of the time and place of holding the election is given, and the District Clerk
is authorized, instructed and directed to give further or additional notice of the election in time,
form and manner as required by law.

SECTION 8. County Elections is authorized to canvass the returns of the Special District
Election. The election shall be held in all respects as if there were only one election, and only
one form of ballot shall be used.

SECTION 9. The District recognizes that additional costs will be incurred by the County by
reason of this consolidation and agrees to reimburse the County for such costs.

SECTION 10 That the District Clerk is hereby directed to file a certified copy of this resolution
with the Board of Supervisors and the County Election Department of the County of Humboldt
forthwith.

SECTION 11. That the District Clerk shall certify to the passage and adoption of this Resolution
and enter it into the official records of the District.

PASSED AND ADOPTED this 20th day of July 2017, at a Regular Meeting of the Board of
Directors of the Resort Improvement District No. 1, by the following vote:

AYES:	Fox, Sommer,	Corey.

NOES:	None.

ABSENT:	Caldwell.	Hargrave.

ABSTAIN:	None.

RESORT IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT NO. 1

Board of Directors