IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE

The City Council of the City of Brisbane has placed Measure Y_ on the ballot proposing the adoption of
an Ordinance to impose a business license tax on soil recycling establishments, as that term is defined in
the Ordinance.

The City of Brisbane imposes on businesses in the City a tax, often based on the gross receipts of a
business. In Chapter 5.20 of the Brisbane Municipal Code, the City imposes a business license tax, based
on gross receipts, on certain “recycling establishments” but not on establishments primarily engaged in
the recycling of soil, including the incidental recycling of rock, stone, concrete and rebar.

The City also charges a truck haul fee of $0.47 per cubic yard of material. Based on truck hauling fees,
the City collects from soil recycling businesses in Brisbane about $600,000 annually.

This Ordinance, if adopted by the voters, would add Chapter 5.12 to the Brisbane Municipal Code and
impose an annual business license tax on soil recycling establishments, at a rate of up to 20% of an
establishment’s gross receipts or up to $200,000, whichever is greater. The Ordinance would authorize
the City Council to set the amount of the business license tax in any given calendar year up to the
maximum tax permitted under the Ordinance. City staff estimates the tax will generate $300,000 to
$400,000 more revenue from soil recycling establishments than the City currently receives in truck
hauling fees from such businesses.

Because this tax is for general municipal purposes and the proceeds deposited into the City’s General
Fund, it will be adopted only if a majority of voters voting on the measure vote in favor of it. If the voters
approve this tax, the tax cannot be increased in the future without voter approval.

A “Yes” vote is a vote in favor of imposing a business license tax on soil recycling establishments.

A “No” vote is a vote against imposing a business license tax on soil recycling establishments.

A complete copy of the proposed Ordinance is printed in the ballot pamphlet.

Dated: August 1,2017

Michael H. Roush

City Attorney, City of Brisbane

P I Cn,NTHE OFFICE OF THE
rlUL-U CHIEF ELECTIONS OFFICER
OF SAN MATEO COUNTY, CALIF.

JUL 2 6 2017

RESOLUTION NO. 2017-27

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE cflf'
OF BRISBANE, CALIFORNIA CALLING A SPECIAL
MUNICIPAL ELECTION TO BE CONSOLIDATED WITH
THE GENERAL ELECTION ON NOVEMBER 7, 2017, FOR
SUBMISSION TO THE VOTERS OF A PROPOSED
ORDINANCE TO IMPOSE A BUSINESS LICENSE TAX ON
SOIL RECYCLING ESTABLISHMENTS

fevHHHHBL

\ T	UfcMU J V LLbMK	\)

WHEREAS, the City has established a business license tax, as set forth in Chapter 5.20
of the Brisbane Municipal Code but this tax, under Section 5.20. 100 A 4 of the Brisbane
Municipal Code, is not imposed on establishments primarily engaged in soil recycling; and

WHEREAS, the City Council desires to place a ballot measure before the voters at the
November 7, 2017 election to impose a tax on certain soil recycling establishments in order to
provide additional revenue for general municipal expenses; and

WHEREAS, the City’s business license tax is a general tax and any increase thereof is
subject to approve of a majority of the voters voting upon the proposed increase at a regularly-
scheduled election at which members of the Brisbane City Council will be elected and it is
desirable to consolidate this special election with that general election;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY
OF BRISBANE, CALIFORNIA, AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1.	ELECTION	CALLED

The City Council of the City of Brisbane hereby calls a special municipal election, to be
consolidated with the general election on Tuesday, November 7, 2017, at which there shall be
submitted for approval by the voters of the City of Brisbane a proposed ordinance amending
Chapter 5.20 of the Brisbane Municipal Code by adding Section 5.20.12 to impose a business
license tax on soil recycling establishments.

SECTION 2.	FULL	TEXT	OF	PROPOSED	ORDINANCE

The complete text of the propose ordinance shall read as follows:

P AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF BRISBANE ADDING
<pf Pi4 (/	SECTION 5.20.12 OF THE BRISBANE MUNICIPAL CODE TO

I J '	IMPOSE A BUSINESS LICENSE TAX ON SOIL RECYCLING

T £ rT	ESTABLISHMENTS”

The People of the City of Brisbane hereby ordain as follows:

Section 1. A new section 5.20.12 is added to Chapter 5.20 of the Brisbane Municipal
Code to read as follows:

“Section 5.20.12 Soil Recycling Establishment

A.	Definition of Soil Recycling Establishment. As used in this Section 5.20.12, the term
“soil recycling establishment’ means an establishment engaged primarily in the
recycling of soil, including the incidental recycling of rock, stone, or rebar.

B.	Any soil recycling establishment shall pay an annual business license tax of twenty
(20) percent of its gross receipts or two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000),
whichever is greater; provided, however, the City Council may by resolution impose
a business license tax for a soil recycling establishment for any calendar year in an
amount below the maximum tax that could be charged under this subsection. The
business license tax shall be paid in two equal installments, due not later than January
1 and July 1 of each year.

C.	Beginning January 1, 2019 and on January 1 of each subsequent year (the
“adjustment date”), the $200,000 referred to in subsection B of this section 5.20.12
may be increased by multiplying the $200,000 by a fraction, the numerator of which
shall be the Consumer Price Index published by the United States Department of
Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics, for Urban Wage Earners and Clerical Workers, All
Items, for the San Francisco-Oakland-Hayward Statistical Area (“CPI”) published
nearest to the adjustment date and the denominator of which shall be the CPI /
published nearest to the date the business license tax was set at $200,000 per year.” I

SECTION 3. TAX OF BALLOT MEASURE

The proposed ordinance to impose a business license tax charged to certain soil recycling
establishments shall be presented for approval by the voters as the following ballot measure:

To pay for general municipal expenses, shall the City impose an
annual business license tax on a soil recycling establishment of up
to twenty (20%) of its gross receipts or up to two hundred thousand
dollars ($200,000), whichever is greater?

The ballot measure shall be designated on the ballot by a letter printed on the left margin of the
square containing the description of the measure, as provided in California Election Code
Section 13116.

SECTION 4. REQUEST TO CONSOLIDATE, CONDUCT ELECTION AND CANVASS
RETURNS

The Board of Supervisors of the County of San Mateo is hereby requested to authorize
the County Clerk;/Registrar of Voters to render all services necessary and proper for the conduct
of the special municipal election called by the Resolution. Pursuant to California Elections Code
Section 10403, the City Council hereby requests that the San Mateo County Board of
Supervisors consolidathThaUelection witfnhe election to 6e~Held on November 7, 2017, and
order the special municipal election to be conducted by the Registrar of Voters. The San Mateo
County Elections Department is authorized to canvass the returns of the special election.

The City Clerk’s Office is authorized, instructed and directed to work with the County
Elections Division as needed in order to properly and lawfully conduct the election. The ballots
to be used in the election shall be in the form and content as required by law. In all particulars
not recited in this Resolution, the election shall be held and conducted as provided by law for
holding municipal elections.

SECTION 5. REQUIRED VOTER APPROVAL AND EFFECTIVE DATE

-2-

^ If a majorjtyjrf the voters voting upon the ballot measure vote in its favor, the proposed
ordinance TjEalloecome a valid and binding ordinance of the City of Brisbane, The ordinance
shall be considered as adopted on the date that the vote is declared by the City Council and shall
go into effect on that date or such other date as may be specified by the City Council

SECTION 6. PROCEDURE FOR ARGUMENTS AND REBUTTALS

As provided in Elections Code, section 9285, the City Council authorizes, on behalf of
the City Council, a committee of the City Council to file a written Argument For the measure,
and a committee of the City Council to file a Rebuttal argument (should an Argument Against
the measure be filed) and other Council members may sign such Argument/Rebuttal. Any
individual voter who is eligible to vote on the measure or bona fide association of citizens or
combination of voters and associations may also submit a written argument for or against the
measure. Such argument, whether For or Against, shall not exceed 300 words and be
accompanied by the printed narne(s) and signature(s) of the person(s) submitting it, or if
submitted on behalf of an organization, the name of the organization, and the printed name and
signature of at least one of its principal officers, in accordance with Articled, Chapter3,
Division 9 of the Election Code of the State of California. Primary arguments For or Against the
measure must be submitted to the City Clerk by August 1, 2017. The Rebuttal arguments must
be submitted to the City Clerk by August 11, 2017 and shall not exceed 250 words.

SECTION 7.	IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

Pursuant to Elections Code Section 9280, the City Council directs the City Clerk to
transmit a copy of the measure to the City Attorney, and directs the City Attorney to prepare an
impartial analysis of the measure showing the effect of the measure on existing law and the
operation of the measure. The analysis shall be printed preceding the arguments For and Against
the measure. The analysis shall not exceed 500 words in length. The impartial analysis shall be
filed by the date set by this resolution for the filing of primary arguments.

J SECTION 8.	FULL TEXT OF ORDINANCE

The full text of the Ordinance shall be printed in the Voter Information Pamphlet.
SECTION 9.	CONDUCT OF ELECTION

The election on said ballot measure shall be consolidated with the general municipal
election to be held on November 7, 2017.

SECTION 10.	CEQA

The approval of this Resolution is exempt from the California Environmental Quality Act
(Public Resources Code Sections 21000 et seq., “CEQA,” and 14 Cal Code Reg. Sections 15000
et seq.,”CEQA Guidelines”). The tax to submitted to the voters is a general tax that can be used
for any legitimate governmental purpose; it is not a commitment to any particular action or
actions. As such, under CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4) the tax is not a project within the
meaning of CEQA because it creates a government funding mechanism that does not involve any
commitment to any specific project that may result in a potentially significant impact on the
environment. If revenue from the tax were used for a purpose that would have such effect, the
City would undertake the required CEQA review for that particular project. Therefore,
Guidelines Section 15060 review under CEQA is not required.

SECTION 11. PASSAGE OF THIS RESOLUTION

-3-

This business license tax is a general tax requiring the approval of a majority of qualified
electors casting votes. This Resolution must be approved by a two-thirds vote of the Council.

I hereby certify that the foregoing Resolution No. 2017-27 was duly and regularly
adopted at the meeting of the Brisbane City Council on July 20, 2017 by the following vote:

AYES: Councilmembers Conway, Davis and Mayor Liu

NOES: Councilmember O’Connell

ABSENT: None

-4-

SUBMITTED AS ARGUMENT AGAINST BALLOT MEASURE TO EXACT A
BUSINESS LICENSE TAX AGAINST SOIL RECYCLING BUSINESS

There is a right way and a wrong way to do things, even for the
government. This proposed tax is wrong, and should be voted down, because it
is: (1) discriminatory—it singles out one business all by itself to pay a huge tax,

(2)	double or triple taxation—it overlaps other City taxes as well as the sizable
truck hauling fee, (3) unfair—it taxes a regional facility for business done outside
the city, and (4) overreaching—it levies a tax more than 20 times greater than
ordinary businesses in Brisbane.

(1)	Discriminatory. We all know there is only one soil recycling business in
Brisbane, and there will never be another one because of the constraints of land,
zoning, and environment. It is against the law to single out one specific business
for a punitive tax.

(2)	Double or triple taxation. First the soil recycling business already comes
under the tax classification of Brisbane Code §5.20.180 for businesses
“conducting or carrying on the business of recycling non-water-soluble, non-
decomposable wastes and industrial wastes.” This proposal would be a new
second tax. And third, a “truck haul fee” -a tax in its own right—is already
charged and nets the City over $600,000 a year.

(3)	Unfair. The soil recycling takes dirt from construction excavations, and turns
it into clean fill dirt, not just in Brisbane but sites scattered all around the Bay
Area. But this unfair tax presumes that all of this business activity is confined to
Brisbane alone.

(4)	Overreaching. This tax would take 20% of the gross receipts of this targeted
business. The tax for ordinary businesses in Brisbane is under 1% of gross
receipts. There is no rational reason given for this overreaching amount.

If you believe in fair and balanced taxation, please vote NO on this tax.

August 1, 2017

Brisbane, CA 94005

Argument in Favor of Measure__

We encourage you to vote yes to establish a new business license tax for soil processing
businesses, such as the Brisbane Soils Processing business which operates on the Brisbane
Baylands. This new business license tax will increase city revenues to promote communitywide
services.

Why we need the Business License Tax? Over the past several years, our community has
adopted several measures to expand our tax base and solidify our revenues. These include new
business license taxes on high gross receipts businesses, increased taxes on hotel guests and new
business license taxes on recycling businesses and liquid storage facilities.

Does this mean that we will always have this type of business in town? The answer is NO,
but it does provide for revenue to the City as long as it does exist. The business license tax is for
revenue purposes only; it does not grant any short term or long term permit to operate. A five (5)
year interim use permit is currently under review by the Planning Commission.

What is the Fiscal Benefit? The tax is up to 20% of gross receipts or a minimum of $200,000
per year, whichever is greater. Based on current activity, it is estimated that the tax will generate
approximately $400,000 more per year than what is currently generated through an existing fee
structure. The financial impact may go up or down depending on the economy and amount of
activity in the construction trades, but in all cases the tax will generate more revenue than if we
maintain the current fee structure.

Is this tax fair? This tax is set at a rate that allows for both profitability for the business owner
as well as steady and predictable revenue in the short term for the City.

SUPPORT OUR COMMUNITY’S FISCAL HEALTH. VOTE YES ON MEASURE____________________

Date: August 1. 2017

Signed:

Lori S. Liu, Mayor'
City of Brisbane

Signed:

W. Clarke Conway, Mayor Pro-tern
City of ferisbflfre>

Signed:,

Madison Davis, Councilmember
City of Brisbane

Signed:

City of Brisbane

Rebuttal to Argument Against Ballot Measure

Residents of Brisbane have lived with businesses which provide services and benefits to the entire Bay
Area since its founding. Brisbane provides these businesses with a well-run government and services at
the highest level. It is only right that regional businesses assist residents in paying for these services.

As most businesses do the tax will be passed along to its regional customers. Soils processing provides
support to many projects throughout the Bay Area and therefore the tax will be borne by these projects
and businesses not solely the soils processer.

The City will no longer collect truck haul fees from businesses affected by this new tax, therefore it is not
double or triple taxation.

The activity of turning waste dirt from other areas into clean fill, does in fact take place in Brisbane, as
anyone who drives on Highway 101 can plainly see. We are affected by trucks damaging our roads,
creating traffic problems, and polluting our town. We need to ensure that businesses which impact us
pay their fair share.

Businesses of varying sizes and types pay a wide range of taxes. Larger businesses that are regional
should pay more than small local owned businesses since their impact is far greater.

We request a yes voteon Measure to ensure that Brisbane continues to be a jewel of the Bay Area
where people and businesses want to locate.

Mayor Lori S. Liu
City of Brisbane

Dated: August 10, 2017

REBUTTAL AGAINST BRISBANE’S PROPOSED SOIL RECYCLING
BUSINESS LICENSE TAX

IF YOU ALLOW CITY GOVERNMENT TO IMPOSE ANOTHER TAX THAT
IS FUNDAMENTALLY UNFAIR TO ONE TAXPAYER, WHAT STOPS
THEM FROM COMING UP WITH ANOTHER TAX UNFAIR TO YOU?

One taxpayer now pays over $600,000 per year, and, per the City’s
projected budget, the same taxpayer will pay $780,000 in FY2016/17, and
$796,000 in FY 2017/18 in “truck haul fees.”

Now, the City wants to add another tax to the same taxpayer of no less
than 20% of gross revenue or $200,000.00 per year. Could you survive
financially if the City used the same formula to add another tax on top of all
the other taxes you pay? Even the City’s “Impartial Analysis” projects that
this new tax will actually impose $300,000~$400,000 per year additional
tax burden to the same taxpayer over-and-above the truck haul fees it
already pays. This new tax will hit a single taxpayer to pay well over a
million dollars a year! Do you think that’s fair?

The City’s justification seems to be that it is simple to stick it to this one
taxpayer and is betting that acting unfairly against a “less-than-popular”
taxpayer will be a cinch to sell to the voters. Don’t buy it. Put a stop to
discriminatory, duplicative, and unfair taxation. Vote NO.

August 10, 2017

Brisbane, CA 94005