S-impartial

Impartial Analysis of Measure S

Anthony P. Condotti, City Attorney, City of Santa Cruz
V4 Cent Sales Tax Ballot Measure

The City Council of the City of Santa Cruz has placed a measure on the ballot asking voters to approve a Vk percent (0.25%) transac-
tions and use tax within the City. The proposed tax would add a Va of a penny to the price of an item that costs a dollar, or one dollar
to the price of an item that costs $400. Because the measure does not limit the use of tax revenue, it is a “general tax,” not a “special
tax” that restricts the funds to specific purposes. Therefore, as explained in the ballot question, the City may use the funds for a vari-
ety of purposes, including but not limited to maintaining current levels of police services, crime prevention and investigation
resources; police staffing; earthquake preparedness; afterschool programs for children and teens; senior services; library services and
parks and recreation programs.

Currently, the cumulative tax on retail sales in Santa Cruz is 9%, of which Santa Cruz receives only 1.5%. The remainder primarily
goes to the State of California, with a small percentage allocated to county-wide transportation funding, the Santa Cruz Metro Transit
District, and the Santa Cruz City-County Library System.

Technically, the existing “sales tax” is a combination of “sales and use tax” and “transactions and use tax.” With some exceptions, both
are levied on the sale or use of tangible personal property sold at retail. Retailers collect the tax at the time of sale and remit the funds
to the State Board of Equalization, which administers the tax.

This proposed measure would authorize an additional 0.25% transactions and use tax, which would increase the total sales tax rate to
9.25%. If approved, this additional increment would go exclusively to the City’s general fund and be available to support the full range
of local municipal services.

A “Yes” vote is a vote to approve the enactment of the lA cent tax. A “No” vote is a vote against the tax. The measure would be
approved if it received a simple majority of “Yes” votes.

S-favor

Argument for Measure S

Santa Cruz residents value their City services, including protection by firefighters and police, popular parks and recreation programs,
maintenance of critical infrastructure, and support for programs that enhance the quality of life for all.

Now, in spite of managing its finances responsibly through recent years, the City faces a deepening fiscal crisis that threatens to erode
these services. Measure S will help avoid a major deficit in coming years, to help sustain essential City services and
facilities.

The surprising fact is that local governments have not shared in the current economic recovery. Like most California cities, Santa Cruz
is feeling the impact of several trends that undermine its long-term fiscal prospects. Local government budgets are increasingly
strained by declining revenues due to changes in consumer spending patterns, increased costs of providing services, steep assessments
by the state for its investment shortfalls, declining federal support for core services, and the urgent need to deal with aging infrastruc-
ture and unanticipated emergencies.

The plain truth: If additional funds are not provided, our community faces painful service cuts and deteriorating facilities. That’s not
the future we want, and that’s why we urge you to vote YES on MEASURE S.

If Measure S fails, the City will face a deficit of $5.5 million in the next year alone, and even more in future years. Potential cuts
include

•	Reducing crime prevention programs

•	Delaying repair of aging infrastructure and facilities

•	Cutting maintenance at City parks and open spaces

•	Reducing support for programs helping seniors, children, and those in need

Passing Measure S allows the City of Santa Cruz to sustain its current level of funding for public safety, parks, and community pro-
grams. All funds from Measure S will stay right here in our community.

Protect the services we count on. Vote YES on MEASURE S.

Maggie Duncan Merrell

Friends of Parks and Recreation Board Member

Cody Muhly

President, Santa Cruz Firefighters Local 1716
Zachary Davis

Co-founder, The Penny-Ice Creamery

Sibley V. Simon

President, New Way Homes

Janet Fardette

President, Leveelies

RESOLUTION NO. NS-29,366

RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SANTA CRUZ REQUESTING
THAT THE CONSOLIDATED JUNE 2018 SPECIAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION INCLUDE A
BALLOT MEASURE FOR THE CITY OF SANTA CRUZ TO IMPOSE A RETAIL

TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX

WHEREAS, pursuant to Elections Code Section 10002, the governing body of any city may
by resolution request the Board of Supervisors of the county to permit the county elections official to
render specified services to the city relating to the conduct of an election; and

WHEREAS, the resolution of the governing body of the city shall specify the services
requested; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Elections Code Section 10002, the city shall reimburse the county
in full for the services performed upon presentation of a bill to the city; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Elections Code Section 10400, whenever two or more elections,
including bond elections, of any legislative or congressional district, public district, city county, or
other political subdivision are called to be held on the same day, in the same territory, or in territory
that is in part the same, they may be consolidated upon the order of the governing body or bodies or
officer or officers calling the elections; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Elections code Section 10400, such election for cities and special
districts may be either completely or partially consolidated; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Elections Code Section 10403, whenever an election called by a
district, city or other political subdivision for the submission of any question, proposition, or office to
be filled is to be consolidated with a statewide election, and the question, proposition, or office to be
filled is to appear upon the same ballot as that provided for that statewide election, the district, city or
other political subdivision shall, at least 88 days prior to the date of the election, file with the board
of supervisors, and a copy with the elections official, a resolution of its governing board requesting
the consolidation, and setting forth the exact form of any question, proposition, or office to be voted
upon at the election, as it is to appear on the ballot. Upon such request, the Board of Supervisors may
order the consolidation; and

WHEREAS, the resolution requesting the consolidation shall be adopted and filed at the same
time as the adoption of the ordinance, resolution, or order calling the election; and

WHEREAS, various district, county state and other political subdivision elections may be or
have been called to be held on June 5, 2018.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED AND ORDERED by the City Council of the City
of Santa Cruz that it hereby orders an election be called and consolidated with any and all elections
also called to be held on June 5, 2018 insofar as said elections are to be held in the same territory that
is in part the same as the territory of the City of Santa Cruz, and hereby requests the Board of
Supervisors of the County of Santa Cruz to order such consolidation under Elections Code Section
10401 and 10403.

RESOLUTION NO. NS-29,366

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED AND ORDERED that the City Council of the City of Santa
Cruz hereby requests the Board of Supervisors to permit the Santa Cruz County Elections Department
to provide any and all services necessary for conducting the election and agrees to pay for said
services, and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED AND ORDERED that the Santa Cruz County Elections
Department shall conduct the election for the following measure to be voted on as the June 5, 2018
election:

Measure to be voted on:

Ballot Question:

To protect Santa Cruz’s quality of life by maintaining: police community and neighborhood
services and crime prevention; homeless and treatment services; funding for local non-profits
providing children/senior/working family services; City programs for children/at-risk youth;
support for parks/beaches/open spaces; fire prevention programs and other essential city services,
shall the City of Santa Cruz enact a permanent lA percent sales tax to provide about $3 million
annually for use in our local community?

Yes_____________No_____________

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED AND ORDERED THAT Santa Cruz County Elections Department
is requested to print the attached measure text exactly as filed or indicated on the filed document in the
county Voter Information Guide for the June 5, 2018 election. Cost of printing and distribution of the
measure text will be paid for by the City.

PASSED AND ADOPTED this 27th day of February, 2018, by the following vote:

AYES:	Councilmembers Krohn, Mathews, Chase, Brown, Noroyan; Vice Mayor

Watkins; Mayor Terrazas.

NOES:	None.

ABSENT:	None.

2

RESOLUTION NO. NS-29,366

TEXT OF BALLOT MEASURE

The people of the City of Santa Cruz ordain as follows:

BE IT ORDAINED by the electorate of the City of Santa Cruz that Section 3.19 of the Santa Cruz
Municipal Code is hereby added as follows:

Section 1. Chapter 3.18 - TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX of the City of Santa Cruz
Municipal Code is hereby amended to add Section 3.18.055 “ADDITIONAL TRANSACTIONS
AND USE TAX” to read as follows:

“3.18.055 ADDITIONAL TRANSACTIONS TAX RATE.

For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, an additional tax is hereby
imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated territory of the City at the rate of 0.25% of
the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail
in said territory on and after the operative date of this ordinance.”

Section 2. Chapter 3.18- TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX is hereby further amended to
add Section 3.18.075 “ADDITIONAL USE TAX RATE” to read as follows:

“3.18.075 ADDITIONAL USE TAX RATE.

An additional excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other consumption in the
City of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on and after the operative date
of this ordinance for storage, use or other consumption in said territory at the rate of 0.25% of
the sales price of the property. The sales price shall include delivery charges when such
charges are subject to state sales or use tax regardless of the place to which delivery is made.”

Section 3. EFFECTIVE DATE. This ordinance relates to the levying and collecting
of the City transactions and use taxes and shall take effect immediately if the tax imposed is
approved by a simple majority of voters voting on the question at the June 5, 2018 election, and
shall become operative on the first date of the first calendar quarter commencing more than 110
days after the adoption of this ordinance, the date of such adoption being as set forth below.

PASSED AND ADOPTED by a majority vote of the electorate of the City of Santa Cruz on June
5, 2018. Pursuant to Section 3, above, the ordinance became effective immediately upon such
adoption.

Attest:	______________________

(Signature)

3

(Title)

SC sales tax text

Full text of Measure

The people of the City of Santa Cruz ordain as follows:

BE IT ORDAINED by the electorate of the City of Santa Cruz that Section 3.19 of the Santa Cruz Municipal Code is hereby added as fol-
lows:

Section 1. Chapter 3.18 - TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX of the City of Santa Cruz Municipal Code is hereby amended to add Section
3.18.055 “ADDITIONAL TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX” to read as follows:

“3.18.055 ADDITIONAL TRANSACTIONS TAX RATE.

For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, an additional tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in the incorpo-
rated territory of the City at the rate of 0.25% of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible personal property sold
at retail in said territory on and after the operative date of this ordinance.”

Section 2. Chapter 3.18 - TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX is hereby further amended to add Section 3.18.075 “ADDITIONAL USE TAX
RATE” to read as follows:

“3.18.075 ADDITIONAL USE TAX RATE.

An additional excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other consumption in the City of tangible personal property pur-
chased from any retailer on and after the operative date of this ordinance for storage, use or other consumption in said territory at the
rate of 0.25% of the sales price of the property. The sales price shall include delivery charges when such charges are subject to state
sales or use tax regardless of the place to which delivery is made.”

Section 2. EFFECTIVE DATE. This ordinance relates to the levying and collecting of the City transactions and use taxes and shall take
effect immediately if the tax imposed is approved by a simple majority of voters voting on the question at the June 5, 2018 election,
and shall become operative on the first date of the first calendar quarter commencing more than 110 days after the adoption of this
ordinance, the date of such adoption being as set forth below.