CITY OF DAVIS MEASURE 1	
Shall Ordinance 2522 be adopted to add Article 15.21 to the Davis Municipal Code to establish a Street and Bike Path Maintenance Tax of $99 per year on residential units and on non-residential units in amounts specified in the Ordinance, to fund maintenance of streets, bike lanes and paths, sidewalks, and related transportation infrastructure, which is estimated to raise $2.8 million, with a 2% annual inflator, for a period of 10 years?	YES
	NO

r

CITY ATTORNEY'S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF
MEASURE I

Measure I, if approved by two-thirds of the voters voting on the measure, will adopt the Street and Bike Path
Maintenance Special Tax (“Tax”). This measure was placed on the ballot by the City Council.

The Tax, as set forth in Ordinance No. 2522, will provide funding for the maintenance, repair and rehabilitation of
public streets and bike paths, including ancillary improvements such as traffic lights, curbs and gutters. As a special
tax, the tax revenue must be placed in a special fund and can only be used for these purposes and incidental expenses
related to these purposes. The City Council is required to designate one or more city commissions to annually review
expenditures of these Tax funds and propose expenditures for the next fiscal year. Each designated commission will
make recommendations to the City Council for use of the tax revenues by the City, within the allowable Street and Bike
Path Tax purposes.

The Measure requires a “maintenance of effort” by the City so that Tax revenue supplements, and does not replace,
the funds currently used for street and bike path maintenance. Each year this tax is in effect, the City must designate
at least $3 million dollars in the General Fund for the maintenance of effort in order to impose the Tax at the maximum
tax rate, if this amount is not budgeted, the tax levy must be reduced so that the total tax revenue does not exceed
the total General Fund contribution.

If approved by the voters, the Tax will be imposed on parcels within the City based on the use of the property. For
fiscal year 2018-2019 the maximum annual (Julyl - June 30) tax rates will be:

Single-family residential	$99.00 per unit
Multi-family residential	$99.00 per unit
Group Living	$40.00 per resident
Commercial	$80.00 per 1,000 square feet of Improved Building Space up to a maximum of 10,000 square feet
Industrial	$25.86 per employee up to a maximum of 30 employees
Commercial Day Care Facilities	$29.90 per 1,000 square feet of Improved Building Space up to a maximum of 10,000 square feet
Vacant Land	$99.00 per Assessor's Parcel



Starting fiscal year 2019-20 and each fiscal year thereafter, the maximum tax rates will be increased on July 1
by two percent (2%). For each fiscal year the City Council will set the actual tax rate, which may be lower than the
maximum tax rate. The tax rate in any year cannot exceed that year’s maximum tax rate.

Measure I contains exemptions to the tax, including an. exemption for public property and a requirement for a low
income refund program.

The Tax would be collected with the ad valorem property taxes for each parcel, unless the City later decided to
collect the tax with other City taxes and charges.

Measure I would sunset and be repealed on June 30, 2028, and could not be collected after that time unless two-
thirds of the voters voting in an election approved an extension or re-authorization of the tax.

/s/ Harriet A. Steiner
Davis City Attorney

<§

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
MEASURE I

Davis is a nice place to live. We have good schools, nice
parks, low crime rates and a friendly community.

Measure I will raise funds specifically to repair and maintain
our roads, sidewalks and bike paths.

Independent experts have determined that we need to
spend approximately $6 million to $8 million per year on
an ongoing basis to properly maintain our roads, sidewalks
and bike paths.

Historically, the State of California and the Federal
Government have provided local communities with
substantial funding for road maintenance and repairs. Over
the past 15 years, State and Federal funding for local road
repairs have diminished substantially.

15 years ago, Davis received nearly 4 million dollars a
year from State and Federal sources to assist with road
maintenance and repairs. Today we receive less than a
% of that.

The City of Davis understands that it is responsible for
providing good, well maintained roads and bike paths. As
such, the City has begun using general fund money to help
accomplish this. From just under $500,000 a few years
ago to now over $3 million per year, the City has ramped
up its own spending on roads.

However, to close the gap between what we are spending
and what we need to spend we need the community’s help.
The additional funding that we receive due to the passage
of Measure I will be spent in addition to the $3 million per
year we are currently spending.

Due to the long term cuts in Federal and State funding, we
are asking the residents to approve a $99/year parcel tax.
This will allow us to do a better job of fixing and repairing
two of our most essential parts of our infrastructure - our
roads and bike paths.

Thank you

/s/ Brett Lee, Mayor Pro Tern, City of Davis

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
MEASURE I

Davis objectively has the worst road conditions in Yolo
County. But instead of maintaining our streets over the
past decade, the City has chosen to provide unsustainable
compensation increases to its employees.

But now there is a large new source of state funds for road
maintenance. Last year California passed Senate Bill SB1
- the Road Repair and Accountability Act of 2017 which
raises the gasoline tax from $0.24/gallon to $0.417/gallon.

It is estimated this will raise $1.5 billion/year statewide for
local street repairs. Davis’ fair share of this money will
be about $3,000,000/year - about the same amount
as would be raised by this new tax.

The City has not disclosed this new funding source to
voters and is instead pleading poverty. Given the City’s
profligate past behavior in excessively compensating
employees while deferring critical roads maintenance, it
has no right to ask voters for $3 million per year while
keeping silent on the expected receipt of these millions
of new dollars from the state.

The City must at least wait until they more accurately
determine exactly how much money will be received from
the State before asking for our tax money for the next
10 years!

if state monies are subsequently found to be insufficient
to repair our streets, then the City can honestly disclose
this and come back to voters with a realistic assessment
of our needs.

Until then, this knowing misrepresentation by omission
on the part of our City should not be rewarded.

Please Vote “NO” on Measure I

www.DavisTaxProtestVote. Com

/s/ Michael Nolan, Acting President of Yolo County
Taxpayers Association

/s/ John Munn, Former Member of the Board of

Education of the Davis Joint Unified School District

/s/ Don Price, Emeritus Professor of History,

University of California Davis

/s/ Pam Nieberg, Former Co-chair, Yes on Measure O
(City of Davis Open Space Ordinance)

Is/ Lucas Frerichs, Councilmember
Is/ Robert Davis, Mayor, City of Davis
Is/ Rochelle Harry Swanson, Councilmember
Is/ Will Arnold, City Councilmember

ARGUMENT AGAINST
MEASURE I

Our City is again asking taxpayers for new money for
transportation infrastructure repairs that have been
deferred for the past decade so employee salaries could
be raised to unsustainable levels.

However, our City is now promising that this time they
really will use ALL of the new taxes only for transportation
infrastructure needs. Additionally, they promise that now
these new taxes,

"...shall not be used to supplant existing funding for
street and bike path maintenance improvements. The
baseline maintenance of effort budget for this purpose
shall be $3.000,000..."

But this promise is hollow. $3,000,000 is actually
the annual amount the City is now budgeting only for
road repavement alone. But this new tax measure also
proposes to fund a wide variety of additional transportation
infrastructure repairs including,

“...sidewalks, bike paths, curbs, gutters, street and bike
path drainage, signs, striping, and pavement markings,
traffic signals and street lighting."

The current budget for maintenance of all of these other
infrastructure needs is an additional $4,550,000 annually.
So the City is really only promising to continue spending
$3,000,000 annually for road repavement but there is no
guarantee they will continue to spend the additional
$4,550,000 annually now budgeted for all of our other
transportation infrastructure needs.

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST
MEASURE I

Over the past 4-5 years the Davis City Council has
transparently and comprehensively laid out our City’s
infrastructure maintenance needs. We now allocate over
$3 million per year to address these needs. This amount
is less than half of what is needed annually to maintain
roads, streets and sidewalks.

Measure I revenue must be spent exclusively on streets,
sidewalks, and bike paths.

It requires the City to maintain its current “level of effort,"
meaning that all revenue from the new tax will be added to
the $3 million currently being spent and cannot replace it. It
cannot be spent on new construction, only on maintaining
what we have.

The vast majority of paving and maintenance projects
are outsourced to private firms using competitive bidding
processes. This reduces costs and assures high quality
work. Having a predictable revenue stream means the City
can go out to bid at the most propitious moments, further
lowering maintenance costs by allowing us to enter the
market at the best times.

Less than a quarter of your property taxes are returned to
the City to provide for basic city infrastructure. In contrast
100% of the revenue from Measure I stays in the city,
making it the most efficient means to raise money to fund
critical needs.



One might fairly ask if the City has any other spending
plans for this $4,550,000 if they do not spend it on
transportation infrastructure repairs. Well, on December
19, 2017 Davis Mayor Robb Davis stated,

“...over the next 10-years our pension costs alone
are going to go up by over $6,000,000 a year."

Davis voters have seen years of repeated broken promises
by our City about how they will spend our taxes. And
now they are using deceptive language in this ballot
measure to do it again. Enough is enough!

Please vote “No” on Measure I.

www.DavisTaxProtestVote. com

/s/ Michael Nolan

Acting President of Yolo County Taxpayers Association

/s/ John Munn

Former President of the Board of Education of the
Davis Joint Unified School District

/s/ Don Price

Emeritus Professor of History,

University of California Davis

/s/ Pam Nieberg

Former Co-Chair, Yes on Measure O
(City of Davis Open Space Ordinance)

Today, government agencies at all levels recognize the
critical need to repair aging infrastructure. For only 27
cents per day we can, collectively, demonstrate our
commitment to dealing with this challenge in our City.

Thank you.

/s/ Robb Davis

Mayor, City of Davis

/s/ Rochelle Swanson
Councilmember

/s/ Elaine Roberts Musser

Utility Rate Advisory Commissioner

1st Kenneth J. Wagstaff

Former Mayor, City of Davis

/s/ DanWolk

Former Mayor, City of Davis

MEASURE I

ORDINANCE NO. 2522

ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF DAVIS ADDING ARTICLE 15.21 OF CHAPTER 15 OF THE DAVIS MUNICIPAL
CODE TO ESTABLISH A STREET AND BIKE PATH MAINTENANCE SPECIAL TAX TO FUND MAINTENANCE OF
STREETS, SIDEWALKS, BIKE LANES AND BIKE PATHS, FOR TEN YEARS
SUBJECT TO THE APPROVAL OF THE VOTERS

THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF DAVIS DOES HEREBY ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. Article 15.21 of Chapter 15 of the Davis City Code is hereby added to read as follows:

ARTICLE 15.21
STREET AND BIKE PATH MAINTENANCE TAX

15.21.010 Findings.

15.21.020 Legal Authority.

15.21.030 Definitions.

15.21.040 Street and Bike Path Maintenance Tax.

15.21.050 Collection.

15.21.060 Annual Adjustment of Tax Rate
15.21.070 Limitation on Disposition of Revenue.

15.21.080 Exemptions.

15.21.090	Effective Date; Renewal Provision.

15.21.100 Appeals.

15.21.105	Maintenance of Effort

15.21.110 Annual Review of Expenditures by City Advisory Commission(s).

15.21.115 Severability.

15.21.010. Findings.

The Street and Bike Path Maintenance Tax is intended to provide funding to supplement the General Fund for the
maintenance of streets, bike lanes and bike paths, and sidewalks, curbs and gutters and related street, sidewalk
and bike path repair and maintenance. This special tax, if approved by an affirmative vote of two-thirds of Davis
voters, will be in effect for a period ten (10) years to provide funding for the maintenance of these facilities.

The City Council strongly believes that it is in the public interest to increase the available amount of funding
for the repair and maintenance of the City’s street, sidewalk and bike path infrastructure to provide for the safe
movement of the community on our transportation infrastructure and to protect the community’s transportation-
related assets. To that end, the City engaged Nichols Consulting Engineers, Inc. to perform an analysis of the
state of repair of the City’s 160 miles of roads and 52 miles of bike paths and make recommendations on repairs
and costs. As set forth in that report dated April 2016, the average pavement condition index was 63 for the City’s
street network and 51 for bike paths, while 70-100 is considered to be in “good” condition. In addition, outside
funding from state and federal levels has fluctuated in recent years, making it difficult to plan and execute street
and bike path maintenance on a regular basis.

The special tax levied herein, if approved by a two-thirds vote of the voters, will provide the added revenue,
which in addition to current funding allocations, is expected to fund over 70% of the total identified infrastructure
maintenance needs and will, through this maintenance protect the City's and the residents’ $238 million
transportation infrastructure asset. The City will continue to fund street, sidewalk and bike path repairs through
other funds and this tax provides for a “maintenance of effort” by the City which would continue the general
funding for streets, sidewalks and bike paths and help assure that this tax provides added revenue to this purpose.
This tax is proposed to continue for ten years thereby providing a stable revenue and also provides an annual two
percent adjustment to the amount of the tax to assist in accounting for annual inflation.

15.21.020. Legal Authority.

This special tax is levied under each of the following legal authorities: Government Code section 37100.5, which
authorizes general law cities to levy any tax that may be levied by charter cities, subject to voter approval; and

Government Code section 50075 through section 50077, which authorizes cities to impose special taxes. This tax
is a special tax authorized under Article 13A, section 4 of the California Constitution and Proposition 218. This tax is
an excise tax and is based, to the extent practicable, upon the use to which a property is put and the benefit that the!
use of property receives from the public facilities supported by this tax. This tax is based, among other things, on
the benefit that different land uses of property receive from the availability of properly maintained streets, sidewalks
and bike paths. This tax is not a property tax; it is not based on the status of ownership of property; nor is it based
on the value of property.

15.21.030. Definitions.

The following terms shall have the following definitions when used in this article:

"Assessor's parcel" or "parcel" means a lot or parcel shown in an assessor’s parcel map with an assigned
assessor's parcel number.

"Assessor's parcel map" means an official map of the county assessor of the county of Yolo designating
parcels by assessor's parcel number.

“City" means the city of Davis as its jurisdictional boundaries exist on July 1st of each year that this tax is
in effect.

"Commercial property" means all parcels that are used for nonresidential land uses that do not classify the
parcel as industrial property or day care property, as defined below.

"Common area” means a separate legal or assessor's parcel owned by a common interest development
association or as tenants in common by the owners of separate interests in a common interest development
provided that the common area: (1) in the case of residential property, cannot be used as an independent
residential dwelling unit; or (2) in the case of commercial or industrial property is not improved building
space.

“Day care property" means all property that is used as a commercially operated day care center and is no1( 1
used as a residence.

“Developed property" means, in any fiscal year, all parcels of taxable property with a structure that has been
cleared for occupancy before March 1 st of the prior fiscal year. For purposes of levying the special tax, each
parcel of developed property shall be assigned to one of the land use classes identified in Table 1 below.

"Fiscal year" means the period starting on July 1 and ending the following June 30th.

“Group living property" means all parcels of developed property that have been issued conditional use
permits from the city's planning division for a group living use.

"Improved building space" means the greater of (i) gross building area as shown on building permits issued
for any property, or (ii) gross building area as measured or determined by an engineer retained by the city.

"Industrial property” shall generally include but not be limited to, all parcels of developed property with
a building or structure that is used for assembling, disassembling, fabricating, finishing, manufacturing,
packaging, repair or processing operations, as classified by the city's planning division.

"Land use class” means any one of the six classes listed in Table 1 below.

“Maintenance” means the maintenance, repair, and rehabilitation of the Street and Bike Path Improvements
including but not limited to resurfacing, repair of cracks or holes, re-striping, replacement of pavement
markings, replacement of pavement of street and bike path surfaces, and similar maintenance, repair or
rehabilitation of other Street and Bike Path Improvements.

"Maximum special tax" means the maximum special tax, determined in accordance with Section 15.21.050,
that can be levied by the City Council in any fiscal year.	a

"Multifamily residential property" means all parcels of developed property with a residential structure or
structures consisting of five or more residential units on a single parcel.





	



'



r

v

"Street and Bike Path Improvements" means public streets, roads, sidewalks, bike lanes and on and off
road bike paths and improvements ancillary to these improvements, including curbs, gutters, street and
bike path drainage, signs, striping and pavement markings, traffic signals and street lighting that will be
maintained, repaired and rehabilitated with proceeds of the special tax and shall also include other costs
such as design, bidding, legal, inspection project management and financing costs directly related to the
allowable public Street and Bike Path Improvements.

"Public property" means property owned by a public agency, public rights-of-way, unoccupied public
utility property and property encumbered with a public or utility easement that makes impractical utilization
of the property for other than the public or utility purpose set forth in the easement.

“Single-family residential property" means all parcels of developed property with a residential structure or
structures consisting of less than five residential units on a single parcel.

"Special tax" means that tax levied pursuant to application of the special tax formula set forth below to pay
for the construction, installation, operation, servicing, maintenance, and repair of the public improvements.

"Taxable property" means all assessor's parcels within the city as the boundaries of the city exist on July
1 st of each year which are not exempt from the special tax pursuant to law or section 15.21.090 below.

"Vacant land" means al I parcels of taxable property that have either no structures or a structure or structures
that have not been cleared for occupancy.

15.21.040. Street and Bike Path Maintenance Tax.

a.	If approved by the voters, commencing July 1, 2018 for fiscal year 2018-2019, the city shall begin
collecting funding for Street and Bike Path Improvements in the form of a special tax in the manner and
at the rates set forth herein.

1. Developed Property. The maximum special tax for all parcels of developed property shall be
determined by reference to Table 1 below:

Table 1	Maximum Special Tax Rates	
Land Use Class	Description	Maximum Special Tax
1	Single-family residential	$99.00 per unit
2	Multifamily residential	$99.00 per unit
3	Group living	$40.00 per resident
4	Commercial	$80.00 per 1,000 square feet of Improved Building Space up to a maximum of 10,000 square feet
5	Industrial	$25.86 per employee up to a maximum of 30 employees
6	Day care	$29.90 per 1,000 square feet of Improved Building Space up to a maximum of 10,000 square feet

(I

2. Vacant Land. The maximum special tax rate for vacant land shall be ninety-nine dollars per assessor's
parcel.

b.	Method of Apportionment of the Special Tax.

1.	For fiscal year 2018-2019, the City shall levy the special tax at the maximum tax rates set forth
above. For fiscal years 2019-2020 and each fiscal year thereafter, the maximum tax rate shall be
increased at the beginning of each fiscal year by two percent (2%). For each fiscal year beginning
with the 2019-20 fiscal year, the City Council shall set the actual tax rate for the applicable fiscal
year, not to exceed the maximum tax rates set forth above as adjusted as set forth in this section
and in section 15.21.060. and the special tax shall be levied at the amount set by the City Council.

2.	The special tax shall be levied on each parcel of land in the amount determined by reference to this
Section 15.21.040:

A. On each parcel of taxable property in Land Use Classes 1 through 6, inclusive.

B. If there is more than one land use class on a parcel, the special tax shall be determined by
separately applying the appropriate special tax for each land use class on the parcel and levying l ^
the sum total of the combined special taxes.	f	^

15.21.050. Collection.

The Street and Bike Path Maintenance tax shall be collected in the same manner and at the same time as ordinary
ad valorem property taxes and shall be subject to the same penalties for non-payment. If necessary to meet
financial obligations or if it becomes more cost-efficient as determined by the City Council, the City may collect
the Street and Bike Path maintenance tax in the same manner and at the same time as City taxes, fees and/or
charges provided that the total annual tax imposed shall not exceed the maximum amounts set forth in this article.

15.21.060. Annual Adjustment of Tax Rate

The maximum allowable tax rate shall be increased annually beginning July 1,2019, by two percent (2%) per year
unless modified or changed by a further vote of the electorate of the City. There shall be no other cost of living or
COLA permitted.

15.21.070. Limitation on Disposition of Revenue.

Revenues collected under the provisions of this article shall be deposited in a special fund called the Street and
Bike Path maintenance special tax fund and shall be used only for allowable costs of public Streets and Bike Path
Improvements as defined in this Article and for the incidental expenses incurred in the administration of this tax,
including, but not limited to the cost of elections, and the cost of collection.

15.21.080. Exemptions.

a.	Public Property. No special tax shall be levied against public property.

b.	Low Income Exemption. To avoid undue hardship, the City Council shall provide for a low-income refund
program subject to such terms and conditions as the City Council may, from time to time, determine.

c.	Common Areas. No special tax shall be levied against common areas.

15.21.090. Effective Date: Renewal Provision.

a. This article shall take effect immediately upon its approval by a two-thirds vote of the voters voting in the
election called to approve the ordinance.

<1

b. If an extension or re-authorization of this article is approved by the voters of the City at an election called
for that purpose by or on June 30, 2028, this article shall be extended or re-authorized. If this article is
not so extended or re-authorized by the voters, this article shall no longer be in effect on June 30 2028.

15.21.100. Appeals.

The imposition of this tax and/or amount of the tax imposed based on the use of property may be appealed to the
City Council under such procedures as the council shall, by ordinance, adopt. The City Council may modify the
appeals process from time to time in order to facilitate the hearing and resolution of appeals.

15.21.105. Maintenance of Effort.

The revenues collected from this tax shall be used only to supplement existing expenditures for street and bike
path maintenance improvements and shall not be used to supplant existing funding for street and bike path
maintenance improvements. The baseline maintenance of effort budget for this purpose shall be the Fiscal Year
2017-2018 Adopted General Fund for Transportation Infrastructure Rehabilitation (CIP 8250), which budgeted $3
million. If the maintenance of effort requirement is not met, the tax for that fiscal year shall be levied at a rate where
the total revenue from the tax for that year shall not exceed the total General Fund contribution.

15.21.110. Annual Review of Expenditures bv City Advisory Commission^).

To promote the efficient and effective use of the special tax revenues, the City Council shall designate a commission
or commissions to review the expenditures of funds collected though this special tax and the proposed expenditures
for the next fiscal year. Each designated commission shall make recommendations to the City Council to be used
during the City’s budgeting process and to assist City staff and the City Council in proposing and approving the
projects that will be funded, in whole or in part, through this special tax. The Council may, from time to time, modify
the commission® that will perform this annual review and the Council may also request other city committees or
commissions to also review the prior or planned expenditures of revenues from this special tax.

<D

I

15.21.115. Severability,

If any sentence, clause, article, section, subsection, phrase or portion of this Ordinance is for any reason held to be
invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portion of this ordinance. The voters of the City
hereby declare that they would have adopted the remainder of this Ordinance, including each sentence, clause,
article, section, subsection, phrase or portion of this Ordinance, irrespective of the invalidity of any other sentence
clause, article, section, subsection, phrase or portion of this ordinance.

INTRODUCED by the City Council of the City of Davis this 6th day of February, 2018, by the following vote:

AYES: Arnold, Frerichs, Lee, Swanson, Davis
NOES: None

ATTEST:

/s/ Zoe S. Mirabile, CMC
City Clerk

This ordinance shall be deemed PASSED AND ADOPTED only upon its approval by a two-thirds vote of the voters
voting in the General Municipal Election on June 5,2018.

/s/ Robb Davis
Mayor

PASSED

NOT PASSED

(♦

lill