IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE L

The California Constitution and State law authorize school districts to levy
qualified special taxes for specified purposes. Government Code Sections 50077 and
50079 provide that such a tax measure passes if two-thirds of those voting on it vote to
approve the measure.

The Brisbane School District (“District”) currently has an annual parcel tax of
$156 per parcel adopted in 2012 that will expire June 30, 2018. By this Measure, the
District’s Board of Trustees proposes to renew the special tax on parcels in the District
and increase the tax by $10 annually to raise funds to support various educational
purposes outlined below. If this Measure is approved, an annual tax of $166 per parcel
would be imposed starting July 1, 2018, for a period of eight years, with the tax ending
June 30, 2026. The District estimates $591,460 would be raised annually by the
renewed tax.

The proposed tax applies to any unit of real property which lies wholly or
partially in the District that receives a separate property tax bill from San Mateo County
tax collection officials. Parcels otherwise exempt from such property taxes will be
exempt from this proposed tax. Under the law, any individual owning and occupying
a parcel as a single-family residence may apply for an exemption to the tax if they also:
(1) are age 65 years or older; (2) receive Supplemental Security Income for a disability,
regardless of age; or (3) receive Social Security Disability Insurance benefits,
regardless of age, and have an annual income not exceeding 250% of the 2012 federal
poverty guidelines. Parcels presently exempt from the District’s expiring parcel tax are
automatically exempt from the proposed tax under this Measure.

The stated purposes of the parcel tax are to fund: school libraries; educational
programs; hiring and retaining qualified teachers and staff; and improving student
access to computers and modern technology.

The proceeds of the tax shall only be used for the stated purposes, and for no
other purposes.

The District will provide the following additional accountability measures for
the tax proceeds: the proceeds will be placed into a special account; and an annual
report accounting for the proceeds collected and expended and the status of projects or
programs funded by the tax will be filed with the District’s Board of Trustees. Also,
the District’s appropriations limit shall be increased annually if necessary to ensure
revenue from the tax may be spent for the listed purposes.

A “yes” vote on this measure would impose an annual tax of $166 per
taxable parcel on property within the District for a period of eight years
beginning July 1, 2018, for the purposes listed above.

A “no” vote on this measure would not allow the parcel tax to be levied,
with the existing annual parcel tax of $156 per parcel expiring without
replacement on June 30, 2017.

This measure passes if two-thirds of those voting on the measure vote “yes.”

Argument in Favor of Measure
Brisbane School District

Brisbane Elementary School, Panorama Elementary, and Lipman Middle school make up the three ^
schools of the Brisbane School District. Exceptional schools are an important asset to our community
and should remain our number one priority. In 2012, a parcel tax was passed to close a deficit in our 2.0
budget ensuring quality education in our schools. This parcel tax is up for renewal. If passed, we will be \0
able to preserve the quality education currently offered in our district.

Although it has improved, state funding continues to be unpredictable and by itself is not enough to

maintain our current level of education. Measure__would cost property owners $166 per year for 8 \ Lo

years and bring approximately $591,000.00 to our district annually. These funds would continue to 11\-
employ teachers and staff, maintain our library aides and keep our district current with technology. 1
None of the money raised would be used for administration. Without passage, the quality education j
currently offered in our district would be impacted.	^

SENIOR CITIZENS WHO OWN THE PROPERTY ON WHICH THEY RESIDE WITHIN THE DISTRICT WILL 1 +
BE EXEMPTED UPON REQUEST. Seniors who have an exemption for the existing parcel tax will
automatically be exempted from the renewal tax.

We are continually thankful for the support of our community for our children and schools. Because (0
parcel taxes require a super-majority, every vote counts. Please support our schools and our future by
voting in YES for Measure____.	c

MAR 1 5 2018

Brisbane School District $166 Parcel Tax: Argument Against Measure L

With this latest “temporary” parcel tax, the Brisbane School District claims they need
more money to continue providing quality education. "']

The district not only wants the 2013 parcel tax for 10 years they’re already getting, they
want an increase of $118 per year more for 5 years. And that’s on top of 2 bond
measures of $48M and $25M funded since 2010. ^

Have they earned this extension that will cost you $1,328 over the next 8 years (on top
of the property taxes you are already paying)? ^

Let’s look at the student test scores for Math learners attaining proficiency:

2015-16 school year results: 52% meeting proficiency.

That means 48% do NOT meet standards.

Source: California Department of Education Data Partnership
If you got 52% on a test, that would be an F grade, would it not? 1C?

Should you, the voters, reward a 48% failure rate with more money?

If no, we encourage you to vote NO on Measure L. \0

Brisbane School Districts’ is already spending $17,019 per student compared to the
statewide average of $11,431. That 149% above the average. For an average class
size of 26 students, that’s $442,494 per class per year. ^0

The average salary and benefits for teachers is $92,347 per shortened work year. \3

Yet, they want more of your hard earned money to pad their salaries and fat pension J o
plans.	I

The measure says that none of the funds will be used for administration. But, funds \£
generated separately from this parcel tax can be used for administration expenses 17_
without limits. So, that is really an empty promise. Do not be fooled. \g

Tell the Brisbane School District Board to be fiscally responsible by voting NO Q
on Measure L. *2—

If you reward failure, you will get more failure!

For more information please visit us at
http://www.svtaxpayers.org/2018-brisbane-school-parcel-tax |

CII CHIN the office of the

rlLtZU CHIEF ELECTIONS OFFICER
OF SAN MATEO COUNTY. CAUF

MAR 1 6 Z018

Brisbane School District $166 Parcel Tax: Rebuttal to the Argument in Favor -

Measure L

With this latest “temporary” parcel tax, the Brisbane School District claims they need
more money to continue providing quality education.

The district not only wants the 2013 parcel tax for 10 years they’re already getting, they
want an increase of $118 per year more for 5 years. And that’s on top of 2 bond
measures of $48M and $25M funded since 2010.

Have they earned this extension that will cost you $1,328 over the next 8 years (on top
of the property taxes you are already paying)?

Let’s look at the student test scores for Math learners attaining proficiency:

2015)-(l6 school year results: 52% meeting proficiency.

That means 48% do NOT meet standards.

Source: www.ed-data,org/district/San-Mateo/Brisbane-Elementary
If you got 52% on a test, that would be an F grade, would it not?

Should you, the voters, reward a 48% failure rate with more money?

If no, we encourage you to vote NO on Measure L

Brisbane School Districts’ is already spending $17.019 per student compared to the
statewide average of $11,431. That 149% above the average. For an average class
size of 26 students, that’s $442,494 per class per year.

The average salary and benefits for teachers is $92,347 per shortened work year.

Yet, they want more of your hard earned money to pad their salaries and fat pension
plans.

Tell the Brisbane School District Bogrg to be fiscally responsible by voting NO
on Measure L.

If you reward failure, you will get more failure!

For more information please visit us at

II	
f	IS
1 (p	
IB>	
8	<+*
I?	
Z>	25~
l*	U-
e>	9
	
*	X
(G	(0
/x	a
CO	l 0
to	
/3	
lo	33
<3	ti
\(p	
i	
10	
£	IX
	1
	7-

http://www.svtaxpavers.org/2018-brisbane-school-parcel-tax

P I C niNTHe0FF'C£ OF THE
ILCU CHIEF ELECTIONS OFFICER
OF SAN MATEO COUNTY CALIF

T T *

MAR 2 6 2018



RESOLUTION 2017-2018 No. XIII

FILEDwc^r,nEnf^

JL	CHIEF ELc.u I jONS	npcircD

OF SAN MATEO COUNTY, CALIF	FICER

MAR 02 2018

MARI

RESOLUTION OF THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF TflE—j
BRISBANE SCHOOL DISTRICT, COUNTY OF SAN MATEO,
STATE OF CALIFORNIA, ORDERING AN EDUCATION
PARCEL TAX ELECTION

WHEREAS, the Board of Trustees (the “Board of Trustees”) of the Brisbane School District (the
“District”) is committed to preserving quality in educational programs and providing the best possible
education to all of the District’s students; and

WHEREAS, Section 4 of Article XI11A of the California Constitution and Section 50079 of the
California Government Code (the “Government Code”) authorize a school district, upon approval of
two-thirds of the votes cast by the voters voting upon the measure, to levy a qualified special tax for
specified purposes; and

WHEREAS, in 2012, the Board of Trustees determined that, in order to maintain quality
education for the students of the District, it was advisable to call an election to authorize a qualified
special tax and, on that basis, the Board of Trustees, ordered such an election; and

WHEREAS, in April 2012, a measure (“Measure Q”) to authorize a qualified special tax was
approved by more than two-thirds of the votes cast by the voters of the District voting upon the measure;
and

WHEREAS, the qualified special tax authorized by the voters under Measure Q in April 2012, is
set to expire on June 30, 2018; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Trustees has determined that, in order to continue protecting the
quality of education for all of the District’s students and to provide stable local funding for area schools, it
is necessary to renew and reauthorize the qualified special tax authorized under Measure Q and increase it
by $ 10 per year for a period of 8 years, commencing July 1,2018; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Trustees has held a public hearing after due notice regarding the
proposed authorization of the qualified special tax; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Trustees is authorized to order elections within the District and to
designate the specifications thereof, pursuant to Sections 5304 and 5322 of the California Education Code
(the “Education Code”); and

''/WHEREAS, the Board of Trustees now desires to order the calling of an election within the
boundaries of the District on June 5, 2018, for the approval of the renewal, reauthorization and increasing
of the qualified special tax previously authorized by the voters of the District under Measure Q and to
authorize the filing of a ballot argument in favor of the measure to be submitted to the voters at the
election;

NOW, THEREFORE, be it resolved, determined and ordered by the Board of Trustees of the
Brisbane School District, as follows:

Section 1. Recitals. The Board of Trustees hereby finds and determines that the foregoing
recitals are true and correct.

OHSUSA:767897537

Section 2. Specifications of Election Order. This resolution shall stand as the order to the
Superintendent of Schools (the “Superintendent of Schools”) of the County of San Mateo (the “County”)
to call an election within the boundaries of the District on June 5, 2018, for approval of the local special
tax measure contained in Section 3 hereof. The authority for the specifications of this election order is
contained in Sections 5304 and 5322 of the Education Code and Section 50079 of the Government Code.

Section 3. Specifications of Ballot Measure. The Board of Trustees hereby requests the
Registrar of Voters of the County (the “Registrar of Voters”) to submit to the voters of the District on
June 5, 2018, the following ballot measure:

Fall

1&S



BRISBANE SCHOOL DISTRICT
LOCAL EDUCATION FUNDING MEASURE OF 2018

This Measure may be known and referred to as the
Local Education Funding Measure of 2018” or as “Measure
assigned by the Registrar of Voters]

‘Brisbane School District
___”. [designation to be

TERMS AND PURPOSES

Terms. Upon approval of two-thirds of those voting on this measure (this
“Measure”), the Brisbane School District (the “District”) shall be authorized to levy a
qualified special tax (the “Education Parcel Tax”) in the amount of $166 per year on each
parcel of taxable real property in the District for no more than eight (8) years,
commencing July 1, 2018, upon the expiration of the existing education parcel tax of
$156 per year approved by the voters of the District in 2012.

Purposes. The proceeds of this Measure shall be authorized to be used to fund:
(a) school libraries; (b) educational programs; (c) hiring and retaining qualified teachers
and staff; and (d) improving student access to computers and modem technology.

Senior Citizen Exemption. In order to provide tax relief to senior citizens
within the District, any parcel owned and occupied by a person 65 years of age or older
shall be exempt from the Education Parcel Tax upon proper application to the District.
The exemption shall be available pursuant to procedures to be prescribed by the Board of
Trustees of the District (the “Board of Trustees”) or otherwise as required by law or by
the Tax Collector (the “Tax Collector”) of the County of San Mateo (the “County”).

ACCOUNTABILITY PROVISIONS

Separate Account; Annual Report. Upon the levy and collection of the
Education Parcel Tax, the Board of Trustees shall cause an account to be established into
which the proceeds shall be deposited. For so long as any proceeds remain unexpended,
the Superintendent of the District shall prepare a report to be filed with the Board of
Trustees no later than December 31 of each year, commencing December 31, 2018,
stating (a) the amount collected and expended in such year, and (b) the status of any
projects or description of any programs required or authorized to be funded under this
Measure. The report may relate to the calendar year, fiscal year, or other appropriate
annual period as the Superintendent of the District shall determine, and may be

OHSUSA:767897537

-2-

incorporated into or filed with the annual budget, audit, or other appropriate routine
report to the Board of Trustees.

Use Limited to Specific Purposes. All of the purposes named in this Measure
shall constitute the specific purposes of the Education Parcel Tax, and proceeds of the tax
shall be applied only for such purposes.

LEVY AND COLLECTION

The Education Parcel Tax shall be collected by the Tax Collector at the same
time and manner and shall be subject to the same penalties as ad valorem property taxes
collected by the Tax Collector. Unpaid taxes shall bear interest at the same rate as the
rate for unpaid ad valorem property taxes until paid. The collection of the Education
Parcel Tax shall not decrease the funds available from other sources of the District in any
period from the effective date hereof.

“Parcel of taxable real property” shall be defined as any unit of real property in
the District which receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem property taxes from the Tax
Collector’s Office. All property which is otherwise exempt from or on which are levied
no ad valorem property taxes in any year shall also be exempt from the Education Parcel
Tax in such year. Parcels owned and occupied by persons 65 years of age or older shall
be exempt from the Education Parcel Tax as provided in this Measure.

The District shall annually provide a list of parcels which the District has
approved for a senior citizen exemption from the Education Parcel Tax to the County tax
collection officials. The County Assessor’s determination of exemption or relief for any
reason other than the senior citizen exemption of any parcel from taxation shall be final
and binding for the purposes of the Education Parcel Tax. Taxpayers wishing to
challenge the County Assessor’s determination must do so under the procedures for
correcting a misclassification of property pursuant to Section 4876.5 of the California
Revenue and Taxation Code or other applicable procedures. Taxpayers seeking a refund
of Education Parcel Taxes paid shall follow the procedures applicable to property tax
refunds pursuant to the California Revenue and Taxation Code.

SEVERABILITY

The Board of Trustees hereby declares, and the voters by approving this Measure
concur, that every section and part of this Measure has independent value, and the Board
of Trustees and the voters would have adopted each provision hereof regardless of every	I

other provision hereof. Upon approval of this Measure by the voters, should any part be	/

found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, all remaining /
parts hereof shall remain in full force and effect to the fullest extent allowed by law._^

Section 4. Abbreviation of Measure. Pursuant to Section 13247 of the California Elections
Code (the “Elections Code”) and Section 5322 of the Education Code, the measure contained in Section 3
hereof shall be abbreviated in the following form, and the Board of Trustees hereby directs the Registrar
of Voters to cause the exact wording of the abbreviated measure to appear on the ballot:

OHSUSA:767897537

-3-

“To support academic excellence with funding the State cannot take
away; fund school libraries; improve educational programs; hire/retain
qualified teachers and staff; and improve student access to modern
technology, shall Brisbane School District reauthorize the existing local
school parcel tax, at the rate of $166 per year, for eight years, exempting
senior citizens, no funds for administrators’ salaries, an estimated
amount of $591,460 raised annually and all funds spent to support local
schools? ”

Section 5. Required Vote. Pursuant Section 4 of Article X1IIA of the California
Constitution, the above measure shall become effective upon the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of
those voters voting on the proposition.

Section 6. Conduct of Election, (a) Request to Registrar of Voters. Pursuant to Section 5303
of the Education Code, the Registrar of Voters is requested to take all steps to hold the election in
accordance with law and these specifications.

V (b) Voter Pamphlet. The Registrar of Voters is hereby requested to reprint the measure in its
entirety (that portion of Section 3 hereof which is indented) in the voter information pamphlet to be
Thstributed'lo voterspursuant to Section 13307 of the Elections Code. In the event the measure in
Section 3 will not be reprinted in the voter information pamphlet in its entirety, the Registrar of Voters is
hereby requested to print, immediately below the impartial analysis of the measure, in no less than 10-
point boldface type, a legend substantially as follows:

“The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure_______. If you

desire a copy of the measure, please call the San Mateo County
Registrar of Voters at {phone number} or the Brisbane School District at
(415) 467-0550 and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you. Measure
_ is also available on the Internet at http://www.brisbanesd.org/. ”

(c)	Consolidation. The Superintendent of Schools and the Board of Supervisors of the County
are requested to order consolidation of the election with such other elections as may be held on the same
day in the same territory or in territory that is in part the same. The District hereby acknowledges that the
consolidated election will be held and conducted in the manner prescribed by Section 10418 of the
Elections Code.

(d)	Canvass of Results. The Board of Supervisors of the County is authorized to canvass the
returns of the election pursuant to Section 10411 of the Elections Code.

(e)	Election Costs. The District shall pay all costs of the election approved by the Board of
Supervisors of the County pursuant to Section 5421 of the Education Code.

Section 7. Appropriations Limit. The Board of Trustees shall provide in each year (pursuant to
Section 7902.1 of the Government Code or any successor provision of law) for any increase in the
District’s appropriations limit as shall be necessary to ensure that proceeds of the qualified special tax
may be spent for the authorized purposes.

Section 8. Ballot Argument. The President of the Board of Trustees, or any member or
members of the Board of Trustees as the President shall designate, is hereby authorized, but not directed,
to prepare and file with the Registrar of Voters a ballot argument in favor of the measure contained in

OHSUSA:767897537

-4-

Section 3 hereof, within the time established by the Registrar of Voters, which shall be considered the
official ballot argument of the Board of Trustees as sponsor of the measure.

Section 9. Filinn of Order of Election. The Secretary of the Board of Trustees is ordered to
cause certified copies of this resolution and order to be delivered not later than March 9, 2018 (which date
is not fewer than 88 days prior to the date set for the election), to the Superintendent of Schools, the
Registrar of Voters, and the Clerk of the Board of Supervisors of the County.

Section 10. Formal Notice. The Superintendent of Schools is hereby requested to prepare and
execute a Formal Notice of Parcel Tax Election and consolidation order in substantially the form attached
hereto as Exhibit A (the “Formal Notice”), and to call the election by causing the Formal Notice to be
posted in accordance with Section 5362 of the Education Code no later than March 7, 2018 (which date is
not fewer than 90 days prior to the date set for the election), or to otherwise cause the notice to be
published as permitted by law. The Secretary of the Board of Trustees, on behalf of and as may be
requested by the Superintendent of Schools, is authorized to cause all notices required by law in
connection herewith to be published and posted, as the case may be.

Section 11. Further Authorization. The members of the Board of Trustees, the
Superintendent of the District, the Chief Business Official of the District, and all other officers of the
District are hereby authorized and directed, individually and collectively, to do any and all things that
they deem necessary or advisable in order to effectuate the purposes of this resolution.

Section 12. Effective Date. This resolution shall take effect from and after its adoption.

PASSED AND ADOPTED this day, February 21,2018, by the following vote:

AYES:	S

NOES:

ABSTAIN: •©*
ABSENT: &

Brisbane School District

ATTEST:

OHSUSA:767897537

-5-

BRISBANE

SCHOOL DISTRICT

June 5, 2018 Ballot Measure Wording

"To support academic excellence with funding the State cannot take away; fund
school libraries; improve educational programs; hire/retain gualified teachers and
staff; and improve student access to modern technology, shall Brisbane School
District reauthorize the existing local school parcel tax, at the rate of $166 per
year, for eight years, exempting senior citizens, no funds for administrators'
salaries, an estimated amount of $591,460 raised annually and all funds spent to
support local schools ?"

Ballot Measure Word Count

5	"To support academic excellence with

10	funding the State cannot take

15	away; fund school libraries; improve

20	educational programs; hire/retain qualified

25	teachers and staff; and improve

30	student access to modern technology,

35	shall Brisbane School District reauthorize the existing

40	local school parcel tax, at

45	the rate of $166 per

50	year, for eight years, exempting

55	senior citizens, no funds for

60	administrators' salaries, an estimated amount

65	of $591,460 raised annually and

70	all funds spent to support

72	local schools?"

Building Thoughtful Citizens

One Solano Street, Brisbane, CA 94005 Phone 415.467.0550 Fax 415.467.2914 www.brisbanesd.org