COUNTY OF PLUMAS

Voter Information Guide

Quincy Fire Protection District
Measure “A”

SPECIAL DISTRICT ELECTION

Kathy Williams
Plumas County Clerk-Recorder
Registrar of Voters
520 Main Street, Room 102
Quincy, CA 95971

Further Information:
530-283-6256
or

844-676-VOTE

QUINCY FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT
MARCH 6, 2018
SPECIAL ELECTION INFORMATION

An election will be held on Tuesday, March 6, 2018 within
the boundaries of the Quincy Fire Protection District.
Voters in the district will receive a Vote by Mail ballot
along with this Voter Information Guide. A postage paid
Return Identification Envelope is also provided to return
your voted ballot. No stamp is necessary.

YOUR SIGNATURE and Plumas County residence
address are required on the Return Identification
Envelope for your ballot to be counted.

Ballots must be postmarked no later than March 6, 2018,
Election Day. We advise you to mail vour ballot early to
avoid any postal delays.

You may also return your ballot at the convenient Ballot
Return Box located outside of the front of the Courthouse
at 520 Main Street, Quincy, California, or in Room 102 of
the Courthouse.

No Argument Against Measure A
was filed.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE “A”

Basic funding for QFPD is dependent on property taxes calculated
by a formula in Proposition 13 which was passed by voters in 1978.
Over time, the formula has increasingly fallen short of adequately
funding emergency services. In 2013 voters approved a parcel tax
of $98.50 by an overwhelming majority of 78%. The current parcel
tax is scheduled to expire on June 30, 2018.

The need for on-going supplemental funding persists. Eligible voters
are asked to approve a per parcel tax of $98.50 per year ($96.00 to
District, $2.50 to Plumas County for administrative cost) beginning
July 1, 2018. The parcel tax would be ongoing and could be subject
to small annual adjustments for inflation (no more than 2%).

These tax dollars will provide for many necessary and sometimes
deferred activities and expenses such as regular maintenance,
repair and replacement of existing equipment and facilities;
providing volunteers with Workers Compensation Insurance
coverage; instructors and materials for in-service training in hazmat
procedures, mountain rescue methods, and emergency medical
services; up-to-date record keeping and information gathering
systems; and ongoing acquisition of government mandated
protective clothing and emergency service equipment.

The performance record of our QVFD emergency responders over
the years has allowed the Fire Protection District to secure an
exceptionally high rating from the Insurance Services Office (ISO),
which helps to lower many homeowners' insurance premiums. In
some cases this savings alone could be more than the parcel tax.

We want our volunteer firefighters to perform their vital services
safely, quickly, and efficiently. They are dedicated to protecting and
assisting all of us in this community. They need your commitment
and support.

/s/ Dennis Clemens, Chairman Measure A Committee

/si James Boland, Rotarian

/s/ Kitty Gay, Director CAN

/si Greg Hagwood, Sheriff/Coroner Plumas County

/s/ John Kimmel, CPA

Sample Ballot for the Quincy Fire Protection District
Special Election on March 6, 2018
Plumas County, California

INSTRUCTIONS TO VOTERS:

•	To vote you must darken the ^ oval next to
the word “YES” or “NO” using on- ly black or blue
ink.

Do NOT Use Red.

•	Do NOT place any mark or signature on the ballot
that makes it identifiable.

•	Do NOT cut or tear any portion of the ballot.

•	If you mismark an oval or change your mind,
exchange your ballot for a new one.

VOTE LIKE THIS: •

MEASURE “A”

“Shall Quincy Fire Protection District resolution
proposing a special tax of $98.50 per parcel per fiscal
year be adopted on all parcels within the boundaries of
the Quincy Fire Protection District, excluding parcels
exempt from county property tax, for the purpose of
funding fire protection and prevention services and
emergency medial and hazardous materials responses,
commencing in fiscal year 2018-19, continuing in
perpetuity, with optional annual adjustments not
exceeding 2 percent, and tax proceeds collected and
apportioned along with county property taxes?"

O

O

YES

NO

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS
BY PLUMAS COUNTY COUNSEL
OF QUINCY FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT

MEASURE“A”

This measure would authorize the Quincy Fire Protection District
(“the District”) to levy a special parcel tax on each and every
parcel located within the District in the amount of $98.50 per
parcel per fiscal year beginning with the fiscal year that starts July
1, 2018, and continuing each year thereafter in perpetuity.
Following a regular public meeting, the District’s governing board
may increase the $98.50 per parcel tax by the lesser of: 1) two
percent (2%), or 2) the Western States Consumer Price. The
proceeds of the special tax may only be used for the purpose of
fire protection and prevention, emergency medical response, and
hazardous materials emergency response. Parcels exempt from
property tax are excluded from paying the tax. The tax will be
collected by the Plumas County Tax Collector at the same time
as and along with other property taxes. Pursuant to Government
Code Sections 50075.1 and 50075.3, proceeds from the special
tax are subject to statutory accountability measures which
include, but are not limited to, deposit to a separate account and
an annual report by the local agency detailing the amount of the
funds collected and expended. This measure will pass if
two-thirds of the votes cast vote “Yes.” A “YES” vote favors
imposing the special tax. A “NO” vote opposes imposing the
special tax.

This measure was placed on the ballot by the board of directors
of the District.

is/ R. Craig Settlemire,	Dated:	December 7, 2017

County Counsel, Plumas County

Full Text of Special Tax Measure
Quincy Fire Protection District Special Tax
For Fire Protection and Prevention,
Emergency Medical Services, and Hazardous Material
Emergency Responses

The Quincy Fire Protection District is responsible for fire protection and
prevention, emergency medical services, and hazardous material
emergency response services within the District.

In order to fund a safe level of the above-mentioned services, the
District proposes to levy a special tax of $98.50 per parcel per fiscal
year (includes the $2.50 per parcel annual administrative charge the
county adds for collection of the tax) on all parcels within boundaries
of Quincy Fire Protection District, excluding parcels exempt from
county property tax, commencing in the 2018-19 fiscal tax year,
and continuing in perpetuity, with optional annual adjustments not
exceeding 2 percent, and tax proceeds collected and apportioned
along with county property taxes.”

The revenues raised by this special tax will only be used to defray
operating expenses and for capital improvement expenditures that ensure
a continued delivery of the full spectrum of services described above.

To ensure that revenue from this special tax is commensurate with
inflation, the tax rate may increase in future years by an annual amount
not to exceed 2% per year, based on changes in the Western States
Consumer Price Index (CPI) or 2%, WHICHEVER IS LESS, Under no
circumstances can a cost of living adjustment be added without the
proposed modification of the fee being noticed and placed on the agenda
of the Quincy Fire Protection District’s Board of Directors regular meeting
with an opportunity for public input and discussion.

If the special tax is approved by two-thirds of the voters voting on the
measure, the District’s appropriations limit will remain at its current level,
since the proposed tax rate is the same as the rate that has been in effect
for the past five years. In the event the tax rate is increased according to
the process described above, the appropriations limit will increase
proportionately.

CERTIFICATION OF ELECTION RESULTS OF THE
QUINCY FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT
SPECIAL TAX ELECTION
HELD ON MARCH 6, 2018

I,	Kathy Williams, Plumas County Clerk-Recorder and Registrar of Voters, having completed the canvass of
the Quincy Fire Protection District Special Tax Election held on March 6, 2018 and recorded in the
certify the results as follows:

The results hereto attached and made a part of and the following local results are true and correct:

MEASURE A - SPECIAL TAX FOR EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES,
FIRE PROTECTION AND PREVENTION

QUINCY FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT
Yes	1214

No	306

** MEASURE DID PASS DUE TO RECEIVING THE REQUIRED 2/3 VOTE.

The Official Ftnal'Canvass'bf votes cast is attached hereto and made a part hereof
The total turnout of voters wa§48.94%.

v L



;atny William^
Dated: March

umas Counjyfclerk-Recorder
,2018	v//

V /

QUINCY FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT

SPECIAL ELECTION	^Page-iof	l

MARCH 6,2018
OFFICIAL FINAL

Registered Voters 3114 - Cards Cast 1524 48.94%	Num. Report Precinct 7 - Num. Reporting 7	100.00%
MEASURE A - QUINCY FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT	Total	
Number of Precincts	7	100.0 %
Precincts Reporting	7	
Total Votes	1520	
YES	1214	79.87%
NO	306	20.13%