ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE G

To all fellow residents of Holiday Lake Ranches and Holiday Homeowners Associations:

This ballot measure will consolidate our two existing special taxes and replace them with a single, new tax in
the amount of $300.00 per year - an increase of $150.00 per year ($12.50 per month).

Background: throughout the years, we have voted to tax the district to pay for things like: the application of
State-approved chemicals to control algae and weeds, an annual dam inspection as required by DWR - a fee
that has increased each year, a liability insurance policy to protect each property owner and occasionally large
repair / maintenance and management throughout the years has been performed entirely by volunteers within
our two communities.

Recently, Holiday Lake CSD has been presented with two new, significant costs:

1.	An audit must be conducted every 5 years which will cost our district a minimum of $5000.00 each

2.	Legislation enacted this past November requires every owner of a State-regulated dam to prepare an
emergency action plan and an inundation map which delineates the area and depth that would be
inundated in the event of a dam failure. These costs are anticipated to be more than $25,000.

In view of these two significant increases in future expenses incurred by our district, we, the Board
members of the Community Services District, strongly encourage each resident to vote ‘YES’ on the
November ballot.

Fred Ott, resident and Board Vice President

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS
HOLIDAY LAKE COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
MEASURE G

Measure G (the “Measure”), if approved by 2/3 of the voters voting thereon, would
consolidate two existing special taxes into a single special tax and increase the total special tax
from $150 to $300 per parcel per year, to be used for the sole purpose of maintaining and
managing Holiday Lake and the common area surrounding Holiday Lake. This Measure was
placed on the ballot by the Board of Directors of the Holiday Lake Community Services District
pursuant to District Resolution No. 2018-02.

The Holiday Lake Community Services District currently levies two special taxes to fund
the maintenance and management of Holiday Lake: a special tax in the amount of $75 per
parcel per year that was adopted on or about October 26, 1998 by District Resolution No. 88-01
and a special tax in the amount of $75 per parcel per year that was adopted on or about
January 20, 2014 by District Resolution No. 2004-01. This Measure, if approved, would rescind
the resolutions authorizing those existing special taxes and, in their place, authorize the levy of
a single special tax in the amount of $300 per parcel per year. If the Measure fails, the existing
special taxes, totaling $150 per parcel per year, will remain in effect.

If approved, the special tax authorized by this Measure will be used solely for the
purpose of maintaining and managing Holiday Lake and the common area surrounding Holiday
Lake. The special tax will be levied against each parcel of land within the boundaries of the
Holiday Lake Community Services District, except those parcels of land owned by a federal or
state governmental agency or another local agency. The special tax authorized by this Measure
would commence in fiscal year 2018/2019 and is expected to generate annual revenue of
approximately $18,600.

The special tax authorized by this Measure will be listed as a separate item on the
county property tax bill for each affected parcel of land and will be collected in the same manner
as the general property tax. All laws applicable to the levy, collection, and enforcement of
county property taxes, including the provisions for penalties and the procedures for sale of the
property in case of delinquency, shall also apply to the special tax.

State law requires the proceeds from the special tax be applied only to the identified
purposes and that an annual report be made indicating the amount of funds collected and
expended and the status of any project required or authorized to be funded by the proceeds.

A “yes” vote is a vote to authorize the levy of the special tax as provided in the Measure.

A “no” vote is a vote against the levy of the special tax as provided in the Measure.

Michael J. Ciccozzi
El Dorado County
County Counsel

RESOLUTION NO. 2018-02 OF THE HOLIDAY LAKE COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT PROPOSING A
BALLOT MEASURE TO CONSOLIDATE THE TWO EXISTING TAXES AND INCREASE THE SPECIAL TAX

TO PROVIDE FOR THE GROWING EXPENCES IN MANAGING AND MAINTAINING HOLIDAY LAKE

WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of the Holiday Lake Community Services District wishes to submit to the
voters of the District a proposal to increase funding to keep pace with the expanding expenses associated with
maintenance and management of a lake and dam within the state of California; and

Whereas, Government Code § 50075 et seq. provides authority for special districts to impose special taxes;
and

Whereas, the District already collects two separate special taxes of $75 each per year from the owners of each
parcel in the District; and

Whereas, the Board has determined that increasing special tax rate by an additional $150 per parcel per year
is necessary in order to adequately fund the natural growth of annual expenses and certain new and significant
expenditures facing the District in the near future; and

Whereas, Government code § 53722 provides that a special tax must be submitted to the electorate of the
District and approved by a two-thirds vote of the voters voting on the issue.

NOW THEREFORE, BE IT HEREBY RESOLVED by the Board of Directors of the Holiday Lake Community
Services District as follows:

1.	The Board shall submit to the voters the question of whether to consolidate the two existing special
taxes of $75 each into a single special tax and:

2.	Increase the total special tax within the District for the purpose of keeping up with the swelling
expenditures now and in the near future from $150 to $300 per parcel per year.

3.	The Holiday Lake Community Services District requests that the El Dorado County Registrar of Voters
place the proposed measure before the voters of the Holiday Lake Community Services District on the
June 2018 ballot. The title of the measure shall be “Holiday Lake Community Services District
Consolidated Funding Initiative.”

4.	The measure shall appear on the ballot in substantially the following form:

Shall the measure to rescind Resolution 88-01 approved by the board of directors on October 26, 1988 and
Resolution 2004-01 approved by the board of directors on Jan 20, 2014, which currently levy $75 each per
parcel annually, consolidate the two $75 taxes and increase by $150 to thereby levy a new total of $300 per
parcel per year until rescinded totaling $18,600 annually be adopted.

5.	A certified copy of this Resolution shall be delivered to the Office of the El Dorado County Clerk and the
County Clerk shall be directed to conduct said election pursuant to applicable laws of the State of
California.

6.	If approved by the electorate as set forth above, said special tax shall be levied and collected in
accordance with this resolution and shall be collected in the same manner and subject to the same

penalty as, or with, other charges and taxes fixed and collected by the District or by the County of El
Dorado.

7.	If approved by the electorate as set forth above the special tax consolidation and new increase shall
augment existing sources of revenue to the Holiday Lake Community Services District and shall not
apply to parcels owned by a federal or state governmental agency or another local agency.

8.	In accordance with applicable laws, the Holiday Lake Community Services District shall reimburse the
County of El Dorado for the cost of such election.

9.	Pursuant to Government Code § 50075.1 the specific purposes of the special taxes are hereby
identified as maintaining and managing Holiday Lake and the common areas surrounding the lake.

10.	The proceeds of the special tax shall only be applied to the specific purposes identified above and shall
be deposited into a special account created for that purpose.

11.	The District shall prepare an annual report pursuant to Government Code § 50075.3 to determine the
amount of funds collected and expended and to identify the purposes for which the special tax funds
have been expended.

12.	In the event of any ambiguity, uncertainty or conflict regarding the application of the special tax to a
particular parcel of land, such ambiguity shall be resolved by formal motion of the Board of Directors of
the Holiday Lake Community Services District.

13.	If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause of phrase in this measure, or any
part thereof, is held invalid or unconstitutional, such decision shall not affect the validity of the
remaining sections, or portions of this chapter or part thereof. The Board hereby declares that it would
have passed each section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this
measure irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, subdivisions, sentences, clauses or
phrases may be declared invalid or unconstitutional.

14.	Request that this measure to be consolidated with the Statewide Primary Elections to be conducted on
June 5, 2018.

15.	This measure shall take effect immediately upon its adoption and shall be applied beginning with the
2018/2019 Fiscal Year Tax bill.