HEALTHCARE DISTRICT MEASURE
MEASURE F

SOUTHERN HUMBOLDT COMMUNITY
HEALTHCARE DISTRICT

Shall the Southern Humboldt Community
Healthcare District renew its current
$125/year parcel tax for ten years without
any rate increase or added cost to
residents, providing approximately $1.5
million annually to benefit the local
community by maintaining access to
emergency medical care, support
hospital and medical services, and attract
and retain qualified doctors, nurses,
technicians and other healthcare
professionals, with annual independent
audits to assure proper use of funds?

I	I YES

I	I NO

SOUTHERN HUMBOLDT COMMUNITY HEALTHCARE
DISTRICT

FULL TEXT OF PARCEL TAX MEASURE F

The Southern Humboldt Community Healthcare District will renew
the special tax on each taxable parcel of land within the District at the
current annual rate of $125 on all qualified parcels within the District’s
boundaries, for a period of ten (10) years beginning July 1,2018 and
ending on June 30, 2028.

The term "qualified parcel” as used in this resolution shall be defined as
every assessor's parcel for the applicable tax year, except those parcels
which have a low value exemption as determined by the District.

The purpose of this parcel tax will be to ensure, all together, or as
individual uses of the tax funds, continued local access to emergency
room care, acute hospital care, community clinic, skilled nursing facility,
laboratory services, physical therapy, CT, x-ray, mammography imaging
services, visiting nurse, program and other health care services, for
residents of the District and visitors to the area. The revenues raised by
this special tax will only be used to defray operating expenses, capital
improvement and facility-related expenditures and debt repayment to
accomplish the foregoing purposes.

The amount of money to be raised annually by the parcel tax levy is
estimated to be $1.5 million dollars.

The special tax revenues shall be deposited into a separate account
held by the Mendocino or Humboldt County Treasurer, as appropriate,
in accordance with Government Code Section 50075.1, and shall be
expended solely for the above-stated purposes and according to a plan
developed annually by the District staff and approved and adopted by the
District’s Board of Directors.

The District will cause to be filed an annual report with its Board of
Directors, which report shall include the amount of special tax revenues
collected and expended, and which shall otherwise comply with the
accountability measures established in Government Code Sections

50075.1	etseq.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE F

Whether you live in nearby Garberville-Redway or farther away in Shelter
Cove, Whitethorn, or elsewhere in Southern Humboldt, 24-hour access
to emergency medical care and hospital services is critical, especially in
emergencies like car accidents, accidents that happen at home or work,
and serious medical issues like heart attacks or strokes.

Measure F is essential to maintain existing medical services in Southern
Humboldt. Measure F will renew the current parcel tax for ten years without
any increase or added cost to residents and taxpayers.

Like many rural areas in California, local emergency medical care services
and local hospitals are dependent on community support. Without Measure
F, our community will not have 24-hour emergency care, and eventually we
will lose critical medical services essential for many residents.

Measure F will maintain local access to emergency room care, hospital
care, laboratory services, physical therapy, CT, x-ray, mammography
imaging, visiting nurses, and other important healthcare services
particularly for seniors.

Every penny from Measure F will stay in our community to benefit the local
community, with annual independent audits to ensure the funds will be
spent as cost-effectively as possible.

Measure F is essential to continue to attract and retain qualified doctors,
nurses, technicians and other healthcare professionals who provide
emergency care to local residents.

Please Vote YES on Measure F to keep emergency medical services in our
community.

/s/ Barbara J. Kennedy, Director, Weott Community Services District

/s/ Maggie Carey, Retired Briceland Vineyards Owner

/s/James W. Quast, Retired SFHS Principal

/s/ Peter Stern, Naturopathic Doctor, Licensed Acupuncturist

/s/ Dee Nelson, Business Owner

SOUTHERN HUMBOLDT

733 Cedar Street
Garberville, CA 95542
(707) 923-3921

COMMUNITY HEALTHCARE DISTRICT

RESOLUTION 18:04

RESOLUTION TO CONTINUE VOTER-APPROVED FUNDING
WITH EXISTING TAX RATE

WHEREAS, The Southern Humboldt Community Healthcare District ("District") was
formed in 1978 following a successful election in June of 1978, consistent with the powers granted by
Health and Safety Code section 32000; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Government Code sections 50075 et seq., the District has the
authority to impose a special tax, as it has been doing since 2007; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Election Code sections 4000 et seq., on May 8, 2007 the
registered voters within the boundaries of the District in both Humboldt County and Mendocino County
approved the imposition of a special tax ("Existing Tax") to provide adequate funding to ensure
continued local access to emergency room care, acute hospital care, and other health care services
and facilities for residents of the District; and

WHEREAS, the Existing Tax expires on June 30, 2018; and

WHEREAS, Section 4 of Article XIII A of the California Constitution and Government
Code section 53730.01 authorize a health care district to impose and levy a special tax for specified
purposes upon approval of two-thirds of the electorate voting on the measure;

WHEREAS, existing community funding has been instrumental in ensuring residents
24-hour emergency access to a doctor on duty, and maintaining additional locally-based healthcare
clinics and services throughout the District; and

WHEREAS, the District finds it necessary to propose a renewal of the Existing Tax
("Measure") at the rates set forth herein to eligible voters for approval; and

WHEREAS, to ensure all funds are spent efficiently and as promised, this Measure
requires public disclosure of all expenditures and oversight by the District's Board of Directors elected
by local voters; and

WHEREAS, District finds it necessary to continue the Existing Tax for another 10-year

period; and

WHEREAS, in the judgment of this Board of Directors ("Board"), following public
hearing and comment, it is advisable to request that the Humboldt County and Mendocino County
Registrars of Voters submit to the District voters on the Tuesday, June 5, 2018 election ballot the
question whether the District shall renew the special tax for the purposes set forth herein; and

WHEREAS, the District held a properly noticed public hearing regarding this matter as
required by law; and

WHEREAS, a special tax requires approval of two-thirds (2/3) of the votes cast by
voters voting upon the Measure; and

NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS RESOLVED that the Board of the District hereby continues
the Existing Tax (hereafter referred to as "the Tax") within the boundaries of the District, subject to
the approval of 2/3 of the votes cast by voters voting on the Measure as set forth below, for the
purpose of assisting the District in meeting the costs of providing adequate local access to emergency
room care, acute hospital care, community clinic, skilled nursing facility, laboratory services, physical
therapy, CT, x-ray, mammography imaging services, visiting nurse, program and other health care
services and facilities for residents of the District as set forth in paragraph 3 of this Resolution as
follows:

1.	The District hereby proposes to renew the parcel tax, as authorized under Section 53730.01 of
the California Government Code that it will use to ensure, all together, or individually to one of these
purposes: continued local access to hospital emergency room care, acute hospital care, and other
healthcare services, for residents of the District.

2.	The District hereby sets the full text of the measure to be placed on the ballot, in the voter
information pamphlet to be distributed to voters for the election of Tuesday, June 5, 2018, as follows:

SOUTHERN HUMBOLDT COMMUNITY HEALTHCARE DISTRICT PARCEL TAX FOR
EMERGENCY ROOM CARE, ACUTE HOSPITAL CARE AND OTHER HEALTH SERVICES

The Southern Humboldt Community Healthcare District will renew the special tax on each
taxable parcel of land within the District at the current annual rate of $125 on all qualified
parcels within the District's boundaries, for a period of ten (10) years beginning July 1, 2018
and ending on June 30, 2028.

The term "qualified parcel" as used in this resolution shall be defined as every assessor's
parcel for the applicable tax year, except those parcels which have a low value exemption as
determined by the District.

The purpose of this parcel tax will be to ensure, all together, or as individual uses of the tax
funds, continued local access to emergency room care, acute hospital care, community clinic,
skilled nursing facility, laboratory services, physical therapy, CT, x-ray, mammography
imaging services, visiting nurse, program and other health care services, for residents of the
District and visitors to the area. The revenues raised by this special tax will only be used to
defray operating expenses, capital improvement and facility-related expenditures and debt
repayment to accomplish the foregoing purposes.

The amount of money to be raised annually by the parcel tax levy is estimated to be $1.5
million dollars.

The special tax revenues shall be deposited into a separate account held by the Mendocino or
Humboldt County Treasurer, as appropriate, in accordance with Government Code Section
50075.1, and shall be expended solely for the above-stated purposes and according to a plan
developed annually by the District staff and approved and adopted by the District's Board of
Directors.

The District will cause to be filed an annual report with its Board of Directors, which report
shall include the amount of special tax revenues collected and expended, and which shall
otherwise comply with the accountability measures established in Government Code Sections
50075.1 et seq.

3.	The District hereby sets the abbreviated ballot form of the measure appearing in Paragraph 3
as follows:

Shall the Southern Humboldt Community Healthcare District renew its current $125/year parcel
tax for ten years without any rate increase or added cost to residents, providing approximately
$1.5 million annually to benefit the local community by maintaining access to emergency
medical care, support hospital and medical services, and attract and retain qualified doctors,
nurses, technicians and other healthcare professionals, with annual independent audits to assure
proper use of funds?

4.	The renewal shall take effect for ten (10) years on July 1, 2018 and shall be assessed against
each taxable parcel of land within the District at the rate of $125 per parcel. The term "qualified
parcel" as means every assessor's parcel for the applicable tax year, except those parcels which have
a low value exemption as determined by the District.

5.	The tax shall be collected by the Humboldt or Mendocino County Tax Collectors, as
appropriate, at the same time, in the same manner and subject to the same penalties as ad valorem
property taxes collected by the Treasurer-Tax Collector. Unpaid taxes shall bear interest at the same
rate as the rate for unpaid ad valorem property taxes until paid. The collection of the parcel tax shall
not decrease the funds available from other sources of the District in any period from the effective
date hereof.

6.	The District hereby notifies the Humboldt County and Mendocino County Boards of Supervisors
and the respective County Election Offices that this Board chooses to hold such election on Tuesday,
June 5, 2018, requests consolidation with any election that may be held on the same day, in the same
territory or in territory that is in part the same, requests that they render all services otherwise
required to be performed by the Secretary of the District for such election, and authorizes and directs
the Boards of Supervisors to canvass the returns of the election and certify the results of the election
to the District as required by law.

7.	The District shall bear the cost of the election.

8.	The Chair of this Board or designees are hereby authorized to prepare and file with the
Registrars of Voters a ballot argument in favor of the tax measure, or act as an author of any ballot
argument prepared in connection with the election, including a rebuttal argument, each within the
time established by the Registrars of Voters, which shall be considered the official ballot arguments of
this Board as sponsor of the measure.

9.	The Chair of the Board or designees are hereby authorized to execute any other document and
to perform all acts necessary to place the tax measure on the ballot, including making alterations in
the ballot language stated in Paragraphs 2 and 3 hereto, and to comply with requirements of law and
election officials.

10.	The District shall levy the tax upon approval of two-thirds of the votes cast by voters voting
upon the measure.

11.	The authority for ordering this election is contained in Section 4 of Article XIII A of the
California Constitution and Government Code sections 53730.01 and 50075 et seq.

12.	The Clerk of this District Board is ordered to deliver copies of the Resolution to the Registrars
of Voters.

THE FOREGOING RESOLUTION WAS ADOPTED upon motion of Director Corinne Stromstad,
Seconded by Director David Ordonez at a regular meeting on Thursday, March 1, 2018, by the
following roll call vote:

Ayes:	Jack Foster,	David Ordonez, Alison Rivas, Jessica Willis and Corinne Stromstad

Noes:	None

Absent:	None

Abstain:	None

Southern Humboldt Community Healthcare District
Ballot Language

March 16, 2018

Ballot Statement

“Shall the Southern Humboldt Community Healthcare District renew its current $125/year
parcel tax for ten years without any rate increase or added cost to residents, providing
approximately $1.5 million annually to benefit the local community by maintaining access to
emergency medical care, support hospital and medical services, and attract and retain qualified
doctors, nurses, technicians and other healthcare professionals, with annual independent
audits to assure proper use of funds?”

Argument in Favor of Measure F

Whether you live in nearby Garberville-Redway or farther away in Shelter Cove,
Whitethorn, or elsewhere in Southern Humboldt, 24-hour access to emergency medical
care and hospital services is critical, especially in emergencies like car accidents,
accidents that happen at home or work, and serious medical issues like heart attacks
or strokes.

Measure F is essential to maintain existing medical services in Southern Humboldt.
Measure F will renew the current parcel tax for ten years without any increase or added
cost to residents and taxpayers.

Like many rural areas in California, local emergency medical care services and local
hospitals are dependent on community support. Without Measure F our community will
not have 24-hour emergency care, and eventually we will lose critical medical services
essential for many residents.

Measure F will maintain local access to emergency room care, hospital care, laboratory
services, physical therapy, CT, x-ray, mammography imaging, visiting nurses, and
other important healthcare services particularly for seniors.

Every penny from Measure F will stay in our community to benefit the local community,
with annual independent audits to ensure the funds will be spent as cost-effectively as
possible.

Measure F is essential to continue to attract and retain qualified doctors, nurses,
technicians and other healthcare professionals who provide emergency care to local
residents.

Please Vote YES on Measure F to keep emergency medical services in our
community.

© Tramutola Southern Humboldt Community Healthcare District March 2018

1

Tentative Campaign Plan Overview

Strengths

■	This is a renewal where the current parcel tax rate will remain unchanged.

■	The ballot statement is clearly written.

■	Many recognize the importance of access to emergency care, hospital, and
medical services, especially seniors who are likely to vote in the election.

Challenges

■	The economic recession has hit the Garberville area hard.

■	Southern Humboldt voters are difficult to reach.

■	Local reluctance to do door to door work.

Campaign Messages

■	Whether you use Southern Humboldt’s hospital services or not, closing the
facility will have a disastrous effect on our community.

■	24-hour access to emergency medical care and hospital services is critical,
especially in emergencies such as car accidents, accidents that happen at home
or work, and serious medical issues like heart attacks or strokes.

■	As a major employer in the area, the economic impact of closing the healthcare
facility would be devastating.

Voter Turnout Assumptions and Estimates

We predict that voter turnout in the June 5, 2018 election is likely to mirror voter turnout

in the May 2017 election.

Assumptions / Estimates	Voters	% Turnout
Total Registered Voters	4.968	
May 2017 Measure W	1,949	39.2%
Likely November 2018	3,757	75.6%
Estimated June 2018 Turnout	2,000	40%
Estimated # of Votes Needed to Win # Registered Voters x Expected Turnout x .67	1,340	67%

Goal

Our goal is to use all available resources to persuade over two-thirds of Southern
Humboldt voters who vote in the June 5, 2018 election to vote YES on Measure F to
maintain emergency and hospital care in Southern Humboldt.

Based on the assumptions and estimates above, 1,340 Yes votes are needed to win.

2

Targets and Goals

Based on our early outreach efforts we divided all voters into 3 groups:

Group 1 - People who voted in May 2017

Group 2 - People who used SHCHD services but did not vote in May 2017
Group 3 - People who may be registered to vote but did not use SHCHD services
and did not vote.

We have isolated 4 voter targets:

Target #1 - Voters from Group 1 and Group 2 who are supportive
Target #2 - Voters from Group 1 and Group 2 who are undecided
Target #3 - Voters from Group 1 who we have not been able to reach yet
Target #4 - Voters from Group 2 who we have not been able to reach yet

With each target group, we have identified specific goals.

Target	Size	Goals
Target #1	888 Yes IDs	-	Send persuasive mail.  -	Follow-up when ballots hit (GOTV)  -	Emphasize calls to Group 2 Yes Ids (GOTV)
Target #2	249 Undecided	-	Send persuasive mail.  -	Phone call by skilled call to answer questions  -	No GOTV
Target #3	878 to contact	-	Send persuasive mail.  -	Do another pass of calling  -	Door to Door in Garberville/ Redway along w/Target #4  -	Email
Target #4	785 to contact	-	Do another pass of calling  -	Door to Door in Garberville/ Redway along w/ Target #3  -	Mail (?) Probably Not  -	E-mail

Tentative Campaign Plan Overview
March

1.	Confirm Targets, Counts, and Goals (See table above)

2.	Rebuttal Argument (If needed - Deadline March 30)

March + April

3.	* Call into Targets #3 and #4

4.	* Skilled caller(s) to call Target #2 - Identify who will make these calls

5.	* Email Targets #3 and #4

April + May

6.	* Door to Door to Targets #3 and #4 to voters who live in Garberville / Redway
(1 weekend in April and 2 weekends in May)

7.	Mail to Targets #1, #2, and #3 (TBD)

May

8.	Communication to Blocksburg voters

9.	GOTV Calls to Yes IDs

June

10.	Election Day = June 5, 2018
* - High Priority

© Tramutola Southern Humboldt Community Healthcare District March 2018

4