DOWNIEVILLE FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT MEASURE C

Shall the measure establishing a special property tax for Paramedic and Emergency Medical Services in the Downieville Fire
Protection District, providing for a tax rate of $100.00 per Residential Equivalent Unit annually, remaining effective until
repealed, for raising an estimated $50,000.00 annually to be joined with Sierra City Fire District's special property taxes
estimated at $50,000.00 and providing for a corresponding increase in the District’s spending limit be adopted?

YES______	NO

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY SIERRA COUNTY COUNSEL

Measure C is an initiative to adopt an “Ordinance Establishing a Special Property Tax for Paramedic and Emergency Medical
Services” (Ordinance). This Ordinance was approved for submittal to the voters on January 17, 2018 by the Board of
Commissioners for the Downieville Fire Protection District, following findings by the Sierra County Clerk-Recorder/Registrar
of Voters and certification of the “Petition for Initiative Measure to be Submitted Directly to the Voters of the Downieville
Fire Protection District.”

If approved by a two-thirds majority of the voters within the Downieville Fire Protection District, the Ordinance will establish
a special tax based on a $100 residential equivalency as defined in the Ordinance and specifically shown on Attachment A to
the Ordinance (on file with the Clerk-Recorder/Registrar of Voters), subject to a Consumer Price Index increase not to exceed
4% per year, beginning in the 2020-2021 fiscal year, to be applied to each residential equivalent unit within the District
boundaries. If approved, the funds will be used solely for the purpose of providing paramedic and emergency medical
services within the District boundaries and by mutual aid agreement, within the Sierra City Fire District. The special tax will
be collected by the County of Sierra which may withhold the administrative costs of collection before transmitting the funds
to the District. The tax, if approved, will constitute a lien on the subject property beginning on July 1st of each year except for
the initial year which lien shall take effect on the day after the election.

A “yes” vote means the voter is in favor of the measure.

A “no” vote means the voter is not in favor of the measure.

County Counsel
/s/ David Prentice

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure C. If you desire a copy of the ordinance or measure, please call the
elections official’s office at 530-289-3295 and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you. You may also access the full text of
the measure on the county website at www.sierracounty.ca.gov/elections.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE C

We need a permanent, full-time Paramedic employee in addition to our dedicated volunteer Advanced Emergency Medical
Technicians, Emergency Medical Technicians, and Emergency Medical Responders to provide Advanced Life Support when
responding by ambulance to life threatening and other medical emergencies within the Downieville Fire Protection District.

The proposed monthly cost for real property owners is reasonable:

~ Single Family Residences will pay $8.33 monthly;

~ Multiple Residential, Commercial, Mixed Use Commercial and Residential, and Industrial will pay $12.50 monthly;

-	Vacant Land, Agricultural, and Open Space will pay $5.00 monthly;

-	TPZ (without a residence) will pay $2.08 monthly;

-	Government, Public Utility, Community Service, Churches and Fraternal Organizations will be exempt.

Measure C must pass by a 2/3rds vote in order to secure the Paramedic position. An identical ballot measure, Measure B,
within the Sierra City Fire District must also pass by a 2/3rds vote. The permanent funding of a Paramedic position is of
utmost importance. It is a vital necessity for us all.

Vote YES on Measure C!

/s/ Frank Lang, Proponent

/s/ Carolyn Ingrid Larson, Proponent

NO ARGUMENT WAS SUBMITTED AGAINST MEASURE C

Page 17 of 17