COUNTY SERVICE AREA 113

(This Measure will appear on the ballot in the following form.)

MEASURE D

Shall the County Board of Supervisors adopt an Ordinance to repeal Ordinance 6735
and remove the Fire Protection Tax levy from the properties within the original County
Service Area 113?

This measure requires approval of a simple majority (50% plus 1) of those voting on the measure.

COUNTY COUNSEL IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

Initiative Measure Repealing Ordinance No. 6735 Regarding Special Benefit Tax
for Structural Fire Protection in County Service Area 113

This initiative to repeal Ordinance No. 6735 regarding a special benefit tax for structural
fire protection in County Service Area 113 was filed by the proponents with the Registrar of Voters
on May 8, 2017, and placed on the ballot by the County of San Diego Board of Supervisors. Voter
approval of this measure will repeal the Fire Protection Tax for residents who reside in the portion
of County Service Area 135 that used to constitute County Service Area 113.

In 1984, the residents of San Pasqual residing in County Service Area 113 voted to
assess themselves a special benefit tax for structural fire protection service. From 1984 to 2014,
the County of San Diego contracted with the San Pasqual Fire Department, Inc. a volunteer fire
company. The San Pasqual Fire Department used the special benefit taxes along with a portion of
the Ad Valorum property taxes to fund fire and emergency medical services. Although the contract
with the San Pasqual Fire Department was terminated in 2014, the County of San Diego continues
to provide fire and emergency medical services to the San Pasqual residents from the San Pasqual
Fire Station.

All funding that is collected through a special tax must be spent to the benefit of the
residents who pay the tax. In 2010, the boundaries of County Service Area 113 were dissolved and
the area was incorporated into County Service Area 135. The County segregates the funds
collected to ensure that the special benefit taxes are not spent elsewhere in County Service Area
135.

The annual revenue provided by the Fire Protection Tax is approximately $52,000. The
County spent over $186,000 on both operations and maintenance items during its 2016-17 fiscal
year. The benefit fee funds only a portion of the funding needed to operate the station. Repealing
the tax will increase the residents’ reliance on County funding for maintenance of the San Pasqual
Fire Station. If the special benefit tax were to be repealed, services and facility improvements in the
San Pasqual area would be prioritized within the other service requirements and projects within
County Service Area 135.

A “YES” vote is a vote to eliminate the Fire Protection Tax that is currently imposed upon
residents living within the boundaries of the former County Service Area 113.

A “NO” vote is a vote against eliminating the Fire Benefit Tax that is currently imposed
upon residents living within the boundaries of the former County Service Area 113.

PR-40L0-1

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE D

In 1984, voters within the County Service Area ("CSA") 113 (San Pasqual) adopted a special
benefit tax to be imposed on their properties to pay for fire protection services within CSA 113. In
2008, the San Diego County dissolved CSA 113, and in 2014 terminated its agreement with the
volunteer San Pasqual Fire Department that provided fire protection services to CSA 113. Yet the
County continues to collect the tax from the residents in the former CSA 113 and directs it to a
larger CSA 135 that receives the benefit of the tax without being taxed. The voters within the
original CSA 113 desire to repeal the tax because it is a burden on their properties without the
specific intended benefit.

STEPHEN J. HOWERZYL

Broard President, San Pasqual Fire Dept. Inc.

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE D

No argument against Measure D was filed in the office of the Registrar of Voters.

PR-40L0-2

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE D

INITIATIVE MEASURE REPEALING ORDINANCE NO. 6735 REGARDING
SPECIAL BENEFIT TAX FOR STRUCTURAL FIRE PROTECTION IN
COUNTY SERVICE AREA 113

By Ordinance 6735 in 1984, the County of San Diego (“County”) proposed adopting an annual
special benefit tax for structural fire protection (“Fire Protection Tax”) to be provided in County
Service Area (“CSA”) 113 - San Pasqual. The purposes of the Fire Protection Tax include obtaining
and operating fire protection equipment and paying salaries and benefits to firefighting personnel
within CSA 113. The majority of the voters within CSA 113 voted to have the Fire Protection Tax
imposed on their properties to receive fire safety and suppression services.

The majority of voters approved the Fire Protection Tax levied on residential property at maximum
of $30 per dwelling; $180 per parcel of 5 acres of more; $195 per commercial or industrial parcel;
$ 150 per agricultural parcel; and $75 per parcel of vacant land. The County has been collecting
the Fire Protection Tax since 1984.

From 1984 to 2014, the County contracted with the volunteer and charitable non-profit corporation
- San Pasqual Fire Department, Inc. - to provide fire protection, as well as medical and emergency
services to San Pasqual Region, using the revenues from the Fire Protection Tax.

In 2008, the County dissolved CSA 113, and in 2014 it terminated its operational agreement with
San Pasqual Fire Department, Inc. Funds generated from the Fire Protection Tax have been re-
directed to a combined service area under the jurisdiction of San Diego County Fire Authority which
utilizes Cal Fire for operation and management. Despite the termination of the agreement in 2014,
San Pasqual Fire Department, Inc. has continued to exist as a non-profit entity, however, without
the benefit of any fire protection authority or the revenues from the Fire Protection Tax. Since the
County’s discontinuance of its operating agreement, San Pasqual Fire Department, Inc. has been
engaged in the disposition of its capital equipment to other non-profit entities and is in the process
of winding up its affairs and dissolving the entity.

The properties within the original CSA 113 continue to pay the Fire Protection Tax, but no longer
receive the originally-intended benefit of it. After CSA 113 has been dissolved, the properties within
the larger CSA 135, without being taxed, have been receiving the benefit of the Fire Protection Tax
levied against the properties within CSA 113.

Therefore, the voters within original CSA 113 desire to repeal the Fire Protection Tax, which is a
burden on their properties without the specific intended benefit.

PR-40L0-3