The City Council of the City of Parlier placed this Measure_on the ballot to raise enough

money annually to ensure that the City can continue to provide, maintain and enhance
essential services for the citizens of Parlier, including fire protection services among
others. Over the last decade, the City of Parlier has suffered significant revenue shortages

that threaten the City’s ability to provide essential services to its citizens. Measure_

will enact an ordinance that imposes a four percent (4%) utility users tax on electric,
natural gas and telecommunications services to ensure that the City of Parlier can protect
its communities from unforeseeable events. The ordinance would include procedures for
fair and broad-based application across all citizens who use such services, instead of
limiting the tax just to property owners.

The utility users tax is expected to raise approximately $398,000.00 annually for an
indefinite period of time. Revenues from the tax will be deposited in the City’s general

fund. An Advisory Measure will accompany Measure______providing Council clear direction

on how funds should be prioritized.

A “yes” vote on this measure is a vote to approve a utility users tax.

A “no” vote is a vote to reject a utility users tax.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Ordinance No._______or Measure______.

If you desire a copy of the ordinance or measure, please call the Fresno County
Clerk/Registrar of Voter’s office at 559-600-3011 or the Parlier City Clerk at 559-646-
3545, extension 227, and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you.

Mary F. Lerner, City Attorney, City of Parlier

MAR 1 5 2018
FRESW^OtlN

By_

ITV.f'l cou’.

DtpuTy

ORDINANCE NO. 2018-002

The City Council of the City of Kingsburg does hereby ordain as follows:

Chapter 3.14 is added to Title 3 of the Kingsburg Municipal Code to read as follows:

Section 1. TITLE. This ordinance shall be known as the “City of Kingsburg Public Safety
Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance.” The City of Kingsburg hereinafter shall be called "City."
This ordinance shall be applicable in the incorporated territory of the City.

Section 2. URGENCY ORDINANCE. Currently, City of Kingsburg (“City”) funding is
inadequate to hire additional police officers to increase crime suppression and prevention;
bolster firefighter and paramedic staffing levels and 911 emergency services; and restore and
replace out-of-date equipment and address other public safety issues in order to preserve the
public peace, health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the City. In order to obtain the funding
needed to hire additional police officers to increase crime suppression and prevention; bolster
firefighter and paramedic staffing levels and 911 emergency services; and restore and replace
out-of-date equipment in order to preserve the public peace, health, safety and welfare of the
citizens of the City, the City Council of the City has elected to present to the voters of the City a
measure to levy a Public Safety Transaction and Use Tax of one percent to be placed on the
City’s June 5, 2018 general election ballot (“Measure”). However, in order to place the Measure
on the City’s June 5, 2018 general election ballot, this ordinance must be adopted and effective
and presented to the County of Fresno on or prior to March 9, 2018. With only one regular City
Council meeting occurring prior to March 9, 2017, unless this ordinance is presented as an
urgency ordinance, this ordinance cannot be adopted and effective prior to March 9, 2018. If
this ordinance is not adopted and effective prior to March 9, 2018, the Measure will not be
placed on the City’s June 5, 2018 general election ballot and public peace, health, safety and
welfare of the citizens of the City will not be preserved because of the lack of adequate and
necessary funding to hire additional police officers to increase crime suppression and
prevention; bolster firefighter and paramedic staffing levels and 911 emergency services; and
restore and replace out-of-date equipment and address other public safety issues.

Section 2. OPERATIVE DATE. "Operative Date" means the first day of the first calendar
quarter commencing more than one hundred ten (110) days after the adoption of this
ordinance. The Operative Date of this ordinance, if approved by voters, shall be October 1,
2018.

Section 3. PURPOSE. This ordinance is adopted to achieve the following, among other
purposes, and directs-that-the‘provisions“hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish those
purposes:

A.	To impose on retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the provisions of
Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code and
Section 7285.9 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 which authorizes the City to adopt this tax ordinance
which shall be operative if 66.66% of the electors voting on the measure vote to approve the
imposition of the tax at an election called for that purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates provisions
identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California insofar as those
provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax and
provides a measure therefore that can be administered and collected by the California
Department of Tax and Fee Administration in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable
to, and requires the least possible deviation from, the existing statutory and administrative
procedures followed by the California Department of Tax and Fee Administration in
administering and collecting the California State Sales and Use Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be administered in a
manner that will be, to the greatest degree possible, consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting the transactions
and use taxes, and at the same time, minimize the burden of record keeping upon persons
subject to taxation under the provisions of this ordinance.

Section 4. CONTRACT WITH STATE. Prior to the operative date, the City shall contract
with the California Department of Tax and Fee Administration to perform all functions incident to
the administration and operation of this transactions and use tax ordinance; provided, that if the
City shall not have contracted with the California Department of Tax and Fee Administration
prior to the operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract and in such a case the operative
date shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter following the execution of such a contract.

Section 5. TRANSACTIONS TAX RATE. For the privilege of selling tangible personal
property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated territory of the
City at the rate of 1.0% of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible personal
property sold at retail in the incorporated territory of the City on and after the operative date of
this ordinance.

Section 6. PLACE OF SALE. For the purposes of this ordinance, all retail sales are
consummated at the place of business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold
is delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for
delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery
charges, when such charges are subject to the state sales and use tax, regardless of the place
to which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the City
or has more than one place of business in the State of California, the place or places at which
the retail sales are consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations to be
prescribed and adopted by the California Department of Tax and Fee Administration.

Section 7. USE TAX RATE. An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other
consumption in the City of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on and after
the operative date of this ordinance for storage, use or other consumption in said the
-incorporated territory of the City at-the-rate of-1;0% of the sales price of the-property. The sales
price shall include delivery charges when such charges are subject to state sales or use tax
regardless of the place to which delivery is made. ______________________________________

Section 8. ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW. Except as otherwise provided
in this ordinance and except insofar as they are inconsistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing with
Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a
part of this ordinance as though fully set forth herein.

Section 9. LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF STATE LAW AND COLLECTION OF USE
TAXES. In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code:

2

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the
name of this City shall be substituted therefor. However, the substitution shall not be made
when:

1.	The word "State" is used as a part of the title of the State Controller, State
Treasurer, State Treasury, or the Constitution of the State of California;

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against
this City or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by or against the California
Department of Tax and Fee Administration, in performing the functions incident to the
administration or operation of this ordinance.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sections referring
to the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the result of the substitution would
be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales, storage,
use or other consumption of tangible personal property which would not otherwise be exempt
from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other consumption remain subject to tax by the
State under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other
consumption of tangible personal property which would not be subject to tax by the state under
the said provision of that code.

4.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711, 6715,
6737, 6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

B.	The word "City" shall be substituted for the word "State" in the phrase "retailer
engaged in business in this State" in Section 6203 and in the definition of that phrase in Section
6203.

Section 10. PERMIT NOT REQUIRED. If a seller's permit has been issued to a retailer
under Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional transactor's permit shall
not be required by this ordinance.

Section 11. EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS.

---------A—There-shatHje-exdudedHrorrrthe-rrreasqre- of the transactions tax and-the-use-tax

the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or by any city, city and
county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the
amount of any state-administered transactions or use tax.

B. There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax the
gross receipts from:

1. Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum products, to
operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the county in which the sale is
made and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or
property under the authority of the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign
government.

3

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the City which is shipped to a point
outside the City, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by the retailer or his
agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at such point. For
the purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point outside the City shall be satisfied:

a. With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject to
registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle
Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and
undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the
Vehicle Code by registration to an out-of-City address and by a declaration under penalty of
perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that such address is, in fact, his or her principal place of
residence; and

b. With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of
business out-of-City and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, that the
vehicle will be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to furnish the
property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this
ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such
property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the property for an
amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, the sale or
lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract
or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional
right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this ordinance, the storage, use
or other consumption in this City of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a
transactions tax under any state-administered transactions and use tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of aircraft and
used or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as
common carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under a certificate of public
convenience- and necessity issaed'pursuant to the laws”of this State, the United States, or any
foreign government. This exemption is in addition to the exemptions provided in Sections 6366
and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price
pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the tangible
personal property arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such property for any
period of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by a
lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, storage, use,
or other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power over, tangible

4

personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any
period of time

for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract
or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

6. Except as provided in subparagraph (7) below, a retailer engaged in
business in the City shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible
personal property, unless the retailer ships or delivers the property into the City or participates
within the City in making the sale of the property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or
receiving the order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer in the City
or through any representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the City
under the authority of the retailer.

7.	"A retailer engaged in business in the City" shall also include any retailer of
any of the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with
Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section
21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5
(commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to collect
use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an
address in the City.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit against that tax any
transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district imposing, or retailer
liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code with respect to the sale to the person of the property the storage, use or other
consumption of which is subject to the use tax.

Section 12. AMENDMENTS. All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this
ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use
taxes and which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code, all amendments to the California Constitution or all amendments to other
applicable provisions of California law shall automatically become a part of this ordinance,
provided however, that no such amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax
imposed by this ordinance unless otherwise required by such amendment.

Section 13. ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN. No injunction or writ of mandate or
other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit, action or proceeding in any court against-
the State or the City, or against any officer of the State or the City, to prevent or enjoin the
collection under this ordinance, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of
any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.

Section 14. CITIZENS’ OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE. Consistent with the City’s ongoing
commitment to citizen involvement as a fundamental principle of good government, specific
citizen oversight and fiscal accountability provisions regarding the revenues collected as a
result of the adoption of this ordinance are hereby established as follows. In addition to the
accountability measures required by State law, an independent Community Oversight
Committee shall be appointed by the City Council of Kingsburg to advise the City Council on the
expenditures funded by Measure E in order to ensure that said funds are spent in accordance
with City Council public safety objectives.

5

Section 15. ANNUAL REPORTING. An annual report shall be prepared each year by the
City identifying the amount of revenue generated by the Ordinance and how those funds were
used for public safety.

Section 16. SEVERABILITY, if any provision of this ordinance or the application thereof to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the ordinance and the application
of such provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

Section 17. EFFECTIVE DATE. This ordinance relates to the levying and collecting of the
City transactions and use taxes and shall take effect immediately. However, no tax imposed by
this ordinance shall be effective unless that tax has been approved by the voters of the City as
required by section 2( d) of Article XIII C of the California Constitution and applicable law.

Section 18. TERMINATION DATE. The authority to levy the tax imposed by this ordinance
shall expire on September 30,2028 unless otherwise extended by voter approval.

PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of Kingsburg, State of California,
on March 7, 2018, by the following vote:

AYES:	North,	Smith,	Dix, Blayney and Mayor Roman

NOES:	None.

ABSENT:	None.

APPROVED:

Michelle Roman, Mayor

ATTEST:

APPROVED AS TO LEGAL FORM.1

Mike Noland, City Attorney

6

RESOLUTION NO. 2018-06

- FEB h 2018

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CIT^
AUTHORIZING AN ADVISORY MEASURE TO BE DESIGP
MEASURE TO BE SUBMITTED TO THE VOTERS ON THE JUNE
5, 2018 STATEWIDE DIRECT PRIMARY ELECTION, REQUESTING
FRESNO COUNTY ELECTIONS TO CONDUCT THE ELECTION, AND
REQUESTING CONSOLIDATION OF THE ELECTION

■f?K

PEFUW

WHEREAS, the City of Parlier has experienced, and continues to experience, a decline in revenues
that has caused the City to reevaluate the services it provides citywide, including fire services;

WHEREAS, the City of Parlier desires to maintain and enhance fire services within the City;

WHEREAS, the next opportunity to place a measure on the ballot in 2018 is the regularly scheduled
Statewide Direct Primary Election to be held on June 5, 2018.

WHEREAS, the City of Parlier has placed Measure__on the June 5, 2018 Statewide Direct Primary

Election ballot;

WHEREAS, Measure_______authorizes a utility users tax of four percent (4%) on electric, natural gas and

telecommunications services for an indefinite period of time to raise approximately $398,000.00
annually;

WHEREAS, Measure_______would ensure that all Parlier citizens who use gas, electricity and

telecommunications services contribute to the funding of essential City services, such as fire protection
services, and that it not be limited to property owners only; and

WHEREAS, Measure_______provides a fair appeals process in the event any citizen of Parlier feels they

are being unjustly assessed with the tax.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED AND ORDERED by the City Council of the City of
Parlier as follows:

SECTION 1: That a municipal election is hereby called and ordered to be held in the City on June 5,
2018, at which election there shall be submitted to the qualified voters the proposition set forth below.

SECTION 2: The City Council requests of the Fresno County Board of Supervisors that the election
for this measure be consolidated with the statewide election to be held on June 5, 2018.

SECTION 3: The question to be submitted to the voters with respect to the ballot measure shall be
printed on the election ballot in the following form:

The County Election Clerk is hereby requested to print this Advisory Measure immediately following

ADVISORY MEASURE _	Yes
If Measure passes, should the revenues raised be primarily used to provide,	
maintain and enhance fire services in the City of Parlier?	No

the City of Parlier’s Measure_______on the June 5, 2018 ballot.

SECTION 4: The City Attorney shall prepare, and the County Elections Clerk shall publish, a

FEB12PHr.3B

synopsis of the measure in accordance with Election Code Section 12111.

SECTION 5: The following constitutes the synopsis of the measure to be voted on for purposes of
meeting the publication requirements of Election Code Section 12111:

MEASURE TO BE VOTED ON

Notice is hereby given that the following measure is to be voted on at the general municipal
election to be held in the City of Parlier, on Tuesday, the 5th day of June, 2018.

ADOPTION OF AN ADVISORY MEASURE TO PROVIDE
GUIDANCE TO THE CITY COUNCIL REGADING USE OF UTILITY
USERS TAX FUNDS FOR ESSENTIAL CITY SERVICES

If Measure___ passes, the City of Parlier will enact an ordinance that imposes a four percent

(4%) utility users tax on electric, natural gas and telecommunications services to raise
enough money annually to ensure that essential City services, such as fire protection services
among others, can continue to be provided for the citizens of Parlier. The ordinance would

include procedures for fair and broad-based application. The purpose of this Measure_is

to advise the City Council that the funds received from the Measure_utility users tax

should primarily be used to provide, maintain and enhancefireservice^n the City of Parlier.

Dated:	Y

City Elections Official
City of Parlier

SECTION 6: The full text of the measure is as follows: If Measure_____passes, should the revenues

raised be primarily used to provide, maintain and enhance fire services in the City of Parlier? The full
text is not required to be printed in the Sample Ballot and Voters Pamphlet. However, the full text of
the measures shall also be made available at the office of the Fresno County Clerk/Registrar of Voters
and the Parlier City Clerk’s Office (559-646-3545).

SECTION 7: Passage of the Measure requires fifty percent plus one (50% +1) votes.

SECTION 8: The City of Parlier requests that the Fresno County Clerk/Registrar of Voters conduct the
election and canvass the returns, and the City consents to reimburse the Registrar of Voters for all costs
incurred for these services.

SECTION 9: In all particulars not recited in this resolution, the election shall be held and conducted as
provided by law for holding municipal elections.

SECTION 10: Arguments in favor or against the proposed measure are permissible and shall be filed
with the Fresno County Clerk/Registrar of Voters in accordance with Elections Code Section 9282. The
City Manager and his staff are hereby directed to prepare and file a written argument in favor of the
proposed measure not to exceed 300 words on behalf of the City Council.

SECTION 11: Pursuant to Election Code Section 10002, the County Clerk/Registrar of Voters is
hereby requested to take all steps incident to the preparation for and the holding of the election in
accordance with law and these specifications.

SECTION 12: The City Attorney shall prepare an impartial analysis of the measures in accordance
with Elections Code Section 9280 and file it with the Fresno County Clerk/Registrar of Voters.

SECTION 13: The City Clerk shall file a certified copy of this resolution with the Fresno County
Clerk/Registrar of Voters as required by law. The City Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to work

-2-

with the Fresno County Clerk/Registrar of Voters and take all steps necessary to cause placement of the
measures on the ballot.

SECTION 14: The City Clerk and the City Attorney are authorized to make any typographical,
clerical, non-substantive corrections to this resolution and to the ballot measure as may be deemed
necessary by the Fresno County Clerk/Registrar of Voters.

The foregoing resolution was approved and adopted at a regular meeting of the City Council of the
City of Parlier held on the 8th day of February, 2018, by the following vote:

AYES: Mayor Beltran, Mayor Pro tem Escoto, Council members Maldonado, Rodriguez, Pimentel
NOES: None
ABSTAIN: None
ABSENT: None

ATTEST:

Dorothy Garza
City Clerk

[00554511]

"We support ballot Measure E to raise the City of Kingsburg's sales tax by 1%. This would add .01C to
the price of an item that costs $1.00. Kingsburg has been able to maintain minimum levels of public
safety services by cutting expenses, however, the demand for improved public safety services has
increased faster than Kingsburg's budget. During the recession, the City reduced both police and fire
staffing. Despite new growth, property taxes alone do not cover the rising costs related to personnel
and aging equipment replacement. Staffing remains below 2008 levels. The Fire Department's "newest"
engine is 17 years old, and we often only have one person available to respond to fire calls due to
staffing limitations. Measure E would add 7-10 public safety positions, including a School Resource
Officer. Calls for service for both police and fire continue to rise. Measure E will also help fund needed
equipment and technology improvements. Kingsburg residents want and deserve better.

Measure E will ensure that tax dollars raised in Kingsburg will be used by the city to deal with our local
needs. Measure E will produce roughly $940,000 annually. Necessities like groceries and prescription
medications won't be taxed. Visitors to Kingsburg will pay their fair share, so residents won't shoulder the
entire cost. Measure E will also ensure that revenues are spent wisely. Each year the City will be required
to undergo an audit and funds will be placed in a segregated account. The City will also establish a citizens'
advisory committee that will oversee the expenditures and make recommendations on how the funds
should be spent. Help maintain Kingsburg's high property values, character, and quality of life! We ask
you to vote YES on Measure E on June 5, 2018."

Signed by City of Kingsburg Mayor, four (4) Council persons

KS

O

!—!,

CO

;r?

;»a

S3

rci

K5

N5

MAR 2 2

5RESIM0 CQUNTY CLERK

DEPUTY

County of Fresno Candidate Guide

Guidelines for Filing Arguments and Rebuttal Arguments

DECLARATION BY AUTHOR(S) OF ARGUMENTS OR REBUTALS

(E.C. §9600)

All arguments concerning measures filed pursuant to Division 9 of the Elections Code shall be accompanied by the
following declaration to be signed by each author of the argument/rebuttal. Names and titles will be printed in the
Voter Pamphlet portion of the County Voter Information Guide in the order provided below.

Js^rgument in Favor	□	Rebuttal	to	Argument	in Favor

The undersigned author(s) of the:

□Argument Against	□	Rebuttal	to	Argument	Aaainsto

Stmvfcie bvefcfi N)

______________________________  at	the	OVjnQ	^

of ballot measure
for the

(Name and/or Letter)

mi ivuvi	/

C in frf	to	be	held	on	Iflp	[7d	1ft

U (Jurisdiction) I	^	(Date)

(Jurisdiction) I	^	(Date)

argument is true and correct to the best of his/her/their knowledge and^giief. _ /'/f]

4-

(Title of Election)

_ hereby state that such

1.

M\CV\ell-p Rowva.vo

(Printed Name)

(Signature)

?>IZl)-2-0lR

		I	1 -  (Tide tii	Appear on Argument)	(Date)	
?	Bruce		~	T71	  C._. ( :	
A ^  CbiMCt		Tinted Name) J	, . (Signature) " /  ?>lll \20ll '	
(Title to Appear on Argument) (Date)				
3.	S-hwii	Smith		—— —-	—
	(Printed Name)  Couv\OJ\ vWtyW*'		^lz.|f^77	
	(Tide to Appear on Argument)		' (Date)	
d	SWtVUh DiY			
OoW\i(		Printed Name)  KVIPj/m tor"	. (Signature)  %\uYlo\%	
	(Tide to Appear on Argument)		. ///	
5	A\JY<K IMrfh			
	a (Printed Name)  (OUfiO/il W\-PM Vtfv		// V , (Sig ature)	
IHDODTAKIT	(Tide to Appear on Argument)  Cll IKIfl IMCDDM ATIAKI- 1 A# 1 1		/ (Date)  PjtI 		am thp

designated filer of the above titled an
Below is my contact information

Ml

„ v.....	'(^nature) ^

•gument/rebuttal. Please notify me of any questions pertaining to this filing.

Mailing

±SHS-<'<t7S-

Contact Numbers: _	(	04	r	   Evening	Fax

Daytime