„„„ RECEIVED

City Attorney Impartial Analysis - Measure A CHULA VISTA CITY CLERK

Summary	2816	MAH	I	b	P	1»:	21

If approved by voters, Measure A would impose a one-half cent ($.005) “transactions and use tax”
(commonly known as a “sales tax”) on retail sales within the City of Chula Vista. The tax would
remain in place unless and until the voters repealed it. The City’s Finance Director estimates the
tax would generate approximately $17 million per year. The City Council has expressed its intent
to spend these monies exclusively on critical needs of the City’s police and fire departments.
However, because the tax is a “general purpose” tax, the City Council would reserve the right to
spend the tax revenues for any lawful City purpose. Measure A also includes provisions for
separate accounting and citizen oversight.

Authority and Method of Assessment

Measure A’s sales tax would be levied under state law (Revenue and Taxation Code Section
7285.9). As such, it would be assessed and collected as a percentage of gross receipts from retail
sales (and other taxable uses) occurring within the City in the same manner as the existing state
sales tax. The current sales tax rate in Chula Vista is 8.25%. This includes an existing local sales
tax of 0.5% that was approved by Chula Vista voters in 2016. This local tax is scheduled to expire
in 2026. If the proposed Measure A sales tax were approved, the sales tax rate in the City would
increase to 8.75%. The tax revenues generated from the additional 0.5% would go to the City (less
a state administrative fee), and could only be spent for City purposes. If approved, the tax would
commence on October 1, 2018.

Provisions for Intended Expenditures

Concurrent with its approval of Measure A for placement on the ballot, the City Council adopted
an “Intended Public Safety Expenditure Plan” (“Plan”) for Measure A revenues. By doing so, the
City Council expressed its intent to spend Measure A sales tax revenues exclusively on the critical
staffing needs of the City’s police and fire departments, including necessary equipment. Measure
A requires City staff to present for City Council action, requests for budgeting of police and fire
personnel, and related equipment, consistent with the Plan. Each year thereafter, City staff would
be required to prepare a “Measure A Spending Plan” that is also consistent with the Plan, and
present it for City Council consideration, in its discretion, as part of the City’s annual budget. A
copy of the Plan is available on the City website at www.chulavistaca.gov/publicsafety.

Separate Accounting and Citizens’ Oversight

Measure A includes requirements for separate accounting, budgeting and auditing of tax
collections and expenditures. It also requires creation of a citizens’ oversight committee (“COC”).
The COC would be responsible for reviewing and reporting on Measure A annual accounting and
spending plans, and compliance with those plans.

General Purpose Tax

The City Council is submitting Measure A to the voters as a “general purpose tax.” This means
that a majority of the voters must approve the Measure for it to go into effect. Although this City
Council has expressed its intent to spend Measure A revenues exclusively on public safety needs,
such as police and fire personnel and equipment, the City Council will retain discretion to spend
the revenues generated for any lawful municipal purpose.

Chapter 3.34

CHULA VISTA $0,005 TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX

Sections:

3.34.010	Title.
3.34.020	Operative Date.
3.34.030	Purpose.
3.34.040	Contract with state.
3.34.050	Transactions tax rate.
3.34.060	Place of sale.
3.34.070	Use tax rate.
3.34.080	Adoption of provisions of state law.
3.34.090	Limitations on adoption of state law and collection of use taxes.
3.34.100	Permit not required.
3.34.110	Exemptions and exclusions.
3.34.120	Amendments of Revenue and Taxation Code.
3.34.130	Enjoining collection forbidden.
3.34.140	Amendments by City Council.
3.34.150	Use of proceeds.
3.34.160	Citizens’ oversight and accountability.
3.34.170	Severability.
3.34.010 Title.	

This chapter shall be known as the Chula Vista $0,005 Transaction and Use Tax Ordinance. The City
of Chula Vista hereinafter shall be called “City.” This chapter shall be applicable in the incorporated
territory of the City. (Ord. 3415 § 1,2018).

3.34.020 Operative Date.

“Operative Date” means the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing more than 110 days after
the adoption of the ordinance codified in this chapter, the date of such adoption being as set forth

below.1 (Ord. 3415 §1,2018).

3.34.030 Purpose.

The ordinance codified in this chapter is adopted to achieve the following, among other purposes, and
directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish those purposes:

A.	To impose a general retail transactions and use tax, in accordance with the provisions of Part 1.6
(commencing with Section 72511 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code and Section 7285.9
of Part 1.7 of Division 2 which authorizes the City to adopt the ordinance codified in this chapter which
shall be operative if a majority vote of the electors voting on the measure vote to approve the imposition
of the tax at an election called for that purpose.

B.	To adopt a general retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates provisions identical to
those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the state of California insofar as those provisions are not
inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a general retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax and provides a
measure therefor that can be administered and collected by the California Department of Tax and Fee
Administration in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and requires the least possible
deviation from, the existing statutory and administrative procedures followed by the California
Department of Tax and Fee Administration in administering and collecting the California State sales
and use taxes.

D.	To adopt a general retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be administered in a manner
that will be, to the greatest degree possible, consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting the transactions and use taxes, and, at
the same time, minimize the burden of record keeping upon persons subject to taxation under the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 3415 § 1,2018).

3.34.040 Contract with state.

Prior to the Operative Date, City shall contract with the California Department of Tax and Fee
Administration to perform all functions incident to the administration and operation of this chapter;
provided, that if the City shall not have contracted with the California Department of Tax and Fee
Administration prior to the Operative Date, it shall nevertheless so contract, and in such a case the
Operative Date shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter following the effective date of such a
contract. (Ord. 3415 § 1,2018).

3.34.050 Transactions tax rate.

For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers
in the incorporated territory of the City at the rate of one-half of one percent of the gross receipts of any
retailer from the sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail in said territory on and after the
Operative Date of the ordinance codified in this chapter. (Ord. 3415 § 1,2018).

3.34.060 Place of sale.

For the purposes of this chapter, all retail sales are consummated at the place of business of the
retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-
state destination or to a common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts
from such sales shall include delivery charges, when such charges are subject to the state sales and
use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no permanent
place of business in the state or has more than one place of business, the place or places at which the
retail sales are consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations to be prescribed and
adopted by the California Department of Tax and Fee Administration. (Ord. 3415 § 1,2018).

3.34.070 Use tax rate.

An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other consumption in the City of tangible
personal property purchased from any retailer on and after the Operative Date of the ordinance codified
in this chapter for storage, use or other consumption in said territory at the rate of one-half of one
percent of the sales price of the property. The sales price shall include delivery charges when such
charges are subject to state sales or use tax regardless of the place to which delivery is made. (Ord.
3415 §1,2018).

3.34.080 Adoption of provisions of state law.

Except as otherwise provided in this chapter and except insofar as they are inconsistent with the
provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1
(commencing with Section 60011 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted
and made a part of this chapter as though fully set forth herein. (Ord. 3415 § 1,2018).

3.34.090 Limitations on adoption of state law and collection of use taxes.

In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code:

A.	Wherever the state of California is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the name of this City
shall be substituted therefor. However, the substitution shall not be made when:

1.	The word “State” is used as part of the title of the State Controller, State Treasurer, State
Treasury, or the Constitution of the State of California;

2.	The result of that substitution would require action be taken by or against this City or any
agency, officer, or employee thereof, rather than by or against the California Department of Tax
and Fee Administration, in performing the functions incident to the administration or operation of
this chapter;

3.	In those sections, including but not necessarily limited to sections referring to the exterior
boundaries of the state of California, where the result of the substitution would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other
consumption of tangible personal property which would not otherwise be exempt from this tax
while such sales, storage, use or other consumption remains subject to tax by the state under
the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code; or

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible
personal property which would not be subject to tax by the state under the said provision of
that code;

4.	In Section 6701. 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711.6715. 6737. 6797 or 6828 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code.

B.	The word “City” shall be substituted for the word “State” in the phrase “retailer engaged in business
in this State” in Section 6203 and in the definition of that phrase in Section 6203. (Ord. 3415 § 1,2018).

3.34.100 Permit not required.

If a seller’s permit has been issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code,
an additional transactor’s permit shall not be required by this chapter. (Ord. 3415 § 1,2018).

3.34.110 Exemptions and exclusions.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the use tax the amount of any
sales tax or use tax imposed by the state of California or by any city, city and county, or county
pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the amount of any state-
administered transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax the gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum products, to operators of
aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the county in which the sale is made and
directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property
under the authority of the laws of this state, the United States, or any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the City which is shipped to a point outside the City,
pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by the retailer or his agent, or by delivery

by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at such point. For the purposes of this
subsection, delivery to a point outside the City shall be satisfied:

a.	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject to registration pursuant to
Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed
in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels
registered under Chapter 2 of Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle
Code by registration to an out-of-City address and by a declaration under penalty of perjury,
signed by the buyer, stating that such address is, in fact, his or her principal place of
residence; and

b.	Wth respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of business out-of-City and
declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, that the vehicle will be operated
from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to furnish the property for a fixed
price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the Operative Date of the ordinance codified in
this chapter.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such property, for any period
of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by the lease prior
to the Operative Date of the ordinance codified in this chapter.

5.	For the purposes of subsections (B)(3) and (4) of this section, the sale or lease of tangible
personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any
period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate
the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

C.	There is exempted from the use tax imposed by this chapter the storage, use or other consumption
in this City of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a transactions tax under any
state-administered transactions and use tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of aircraft and used or consumed
by such operators directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of
persons or property for hire or compensation under a certificate of public convenience and
necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this state, the United States, or any foreign government.
This exemption is in addition to the exemptions provided in Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code of the state of California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract
entered into prior to the Operative Date of the ordinance codified in this chapter.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the tangible personal property
arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such property for any period of time for
which the lessee is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by a lease prior to the
Operative Date of the ordinance codified in this chapter.

5.	For the purposes of subsections (C)(3) and (4) of this section, storage, use, or other
consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power over, tangible personal property

shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for
which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or
lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subsection (C)(7) of this section, a retailer engaged in business in the
City shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible personal property,
unless the retailer ships or delivers the property into the City or participates within the City in
making the sale of the property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving the order, either
directly or indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer in the City or through any representative,
agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the City under the authority of the retailer.

7.	“A retailer engaged in business in the City” shall also include any retailer of any of the following:
vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 40001 of Division
3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities
Code, or undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 98401 of
the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to collect use tax from any purchaser who
registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the City.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this chapter may credit against that tax any transactions tax or
reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district imposing, or retailer liable for, a transactions tax
pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code with respect to the sale to the
person of the property the storage, use or other consumption of which is subject to the use tax. (Ord.
3415 §1,2018).

3.34.120 Amendments of Revenue and Taxation Code.

All amendments subsequent to the effective date of the ordinance codified in this chapter to Part 1 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and which are not
inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and all
amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall
automatically become a part of this chapter; provided, however, that no such amendment shall operate
so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this chapter. (Ord. 3415 § 1,2018).

3.34.130 Enjoining collection forbidden.

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit, action or
proceeding in any court against the state or the City, or against any officer of the state or the City, to
prevent or enjoin the collection under this chapter, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected. (Ord. 3415 § 1, 2018).

3.34.140 Amendments by City Council.

The following amendments to this chapter must be approved by the voters of the City: increasing the
tax rate; revising the methodology for calculating the tax, such that a tax increase would result;
imposing the tax on transactions and uses not previously subject to the tax (unless such amendment
occurs automatically by operation of law); or terminating the tax. The City Council may otherwise
amend this chapter without submitting the amendment to the voters for approval in any manner which
does not constitute a tax “increase” as that term is defined in Government Code section 53750(h). (Ord.
3415 §1,2018).

3.34.150 Use of proceeds.

The proceeds from the tax imposed by this chapter shall be for unrestricted general revenue purposes
of the City and shall be received into the general fund of the City. Nothing in this chapter shall constitute

the tax imposed under this chapter as a special tax, or bind the City to use the proceeds for any specific
purpose or function; the City Council shall retain discretion to expend the proceeds of the tax for any
lawful purpose of the City. (Ord. 3415 § 1,2018).

3.34.160 Citizens’ oversight and accountability.

In order to provide for citizens’ oversight, transparency and accountability in connection with
expenditures of tax revenues generated under the terms of this chapter, the City shall do the following:

A.	Line Item Accounting. All revenue generated by the tax (“Measure A revenues”) shall be accounted
in the general fund as a separate line item entitled “Local Transactions and Use Tax - Measure ‘A’
Revenues.” Measure A revenues and expenditures will be tracked and accounted for by City Finance
Department staff in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), and presented
annually in a report (the “Finance Department Report”) to the Citizens’ Oversight Committee (“COC”)
created pursuant to subsection (D) of this section.

B.	Annual Submittal of Measure A Public Safety Expenditure Plan. If Measure ‘A’ is approved by the
voters, beginning in fiscal year 2018-2019, and for each subsequent year, prior to City Council
consideration of the City’s annual budget, City staff will prepare and present to the COC for its review a
spending plan for the Measure ‘A’ Revenues. Such plan (the “Measure ‘A’ Spending Plan”) shall be (1)
consistent with the City Council Intended Public Safety Expenditure Plan approved concurrently with
the ordinance codified in this chapter; (2) include specific proposals for near term expenditures; and (3)
a plan for expenditures for the next 10 years to address the “Phase I” critical needs described therein.
After review by the COC, the Measure ‘A’ Spending Plan for the upcoming fiscal year shall be
incorporated into the City Manager’s proposed budget, and then presented to the City Council for its
consideration and action, in its discretion, as part of the City’s annual budget process. The City Council
must consider for approval the expenditure of projected Measure ‘A’ revenues as a separate line item
category in each year’s budget. The COC’s duties under this section shall continue until and unless the
City Council appoints another commission, committee, or group to be responsible for reporting to the
City Council, pursuant to subsection (D) of this section.

C.	Annual, Independent Audit. Beginning with the fiscal year 2018-2019, the City’s independent
auditors shall, as part of their annual audit of the City’s financial statements, review the collection and
expenditure of Measure ‘A’ revenues.

D.	Measure A Oversight Committee. Prior to the Operative Date, the City shall create and convene a
Citizens’ Oversight Committee (“COC”). The function of the COC shall be to review and report on City
compliance with the terms of this chapter and the spending guidelines contained in the City Council
Intended Public Safety Expenditure Plan and each Measure A Spending Plan presented to and
approved by the City Council thereafter. The COC shall operate in accordance with the Ralph M. Brown
Act, which includes requirements that meetings be noticed in advance and held in public. The COC
shall be created by City Council ordinance consistent with the terms of this section adopted no later
than 150 days following the date of the election at which Measure A is approved by the voters. The
COC may be disbanded following the implementation of “Phase I” critical needs, as reported in the
Intended Public Safety Expenditure Plan. If the City Council elects to disband the COC, the City’s
Growth Management Oversight Commission, or an appropriate alternative citizens’ group or committee
designated by the City Council, shall be responsible for reporting to the City Council, in a manner to be
determined by the City Council, regarding the collection and expenditure of Measure A Revenues and
the resulting impacts on public safety. (Ord. 3415 § 1, 2018).

3.34.170 Severability.

If any provision of this chapter or the application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid,
the remainder of this chapter and the application of such provision to other persons or circumstances
shall not be affected thereby.

Such invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications of this chapter which can be given effect
without the invalid provision or application, and to this end the provisions of this chapter are severable.
This people of the City of Chula Vista hereby declare that they would have adopted the ordinance
codified in this chapter irrespective of the invalidity of any particular portion thereof and intend that the
invalid portions should be severed and the balance of this chapter be enforced. (Ord. 3415 § 1,2018).

4

-Code reviser’s note: Ord. 3415 was adopted by Council on February 27, 2018. It was adopted by the
voters at the June 5, 2018, election.

Mobile Version

DocuSign Envelope ID: 9390CEED-9A45-49FD-BD89-9639B33DC525

RESOLUTION NO. 2018-023

RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
CHULA VISTA: (A) AMENDING RESOLUTION NO.2018-004
CALLING A GENERAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION TO BE
HELD ON JUNE 5, 2018; (B) ORDERING SUBMISSION TO
THE QUALIFIED ELECTORS OF THE CITY, A MEASURE
RELATING TO THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A ONE-HALF
CENT GENERAL TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX; (C)
AUTHORIZING THE MAYOR TO SUBMIT BALLOT
ARGUMENTS IN FAVOR OF THE MEASURE; AND (D)
DIRECTING THE CITY ATTORNEY TO PREPARE AN
IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF THE MEASURE

WHEREAS, the City of Chula Vista (“City”) may impose a local transactions and use
tax increase for general purposes with the approval of the majority of voters in the City; and

WHEREAS, the City has adopted an ordinance adding Chapter 3.34 to the Chula
Vista Municipal Code, entitled “Chula Vista One-Half Cent Transactions and Use Tax” (the
“Ordinance”) and

WHEREAS, Chapter 3.34 of the Chula Vista Municipal Code establishes a general
one-half cent transactions and use tax to be administered by the California Department of Tax
and Fee Administration (the “Sales Tax”); and

WHEREAS, the Ordinance, attached hereto and incorporated herein as Exhibit A,
would implement the Sales Tax which, if approved by voters, would take effect no earlier
than October 1, 2018; and

WHEREAS, in accordance with the provisions of the Chula Vista Charter and State law,
a General Municipal Election was called by the City Council pursuant to Resolution No. 2018-
004, to be held on Tuesday, June 5, 2018; and

WHEREAS, the City Council desires to amend that Resolution in order to add the Sales
Tax Measure to the June 5, 2018 ballot; and

WHEREAS, the Environmental Review Coordinator has reviewed the proposed activity
for compliance with the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) and has determined that
this activity is not a “Project” as defined under Section 15378 of the State CEQA Guidelines
because it is a financing decision without commitment to a specific project which may result in a
potentially significant physical impact on the environment; therefore, pursuant to Section
15060(c)(3) of the State CEQA Guidelines, the actions proposed are not subject to CEQA; and

DocuSign Envelope ID: 9390CEED-9A45-49FD-BD89-9639B33DC525

Resolution No. 2018-023
Page No. 2

WHEREAS, pursuant to Revenue and Taxation Code Section 7285.9 and California
Elections Code Section 9222, the City Council desires to submit the Ordinance to the
electorate at the General Municipal Election to be held on Tuesday, June 5, 2018; and

WHEREAS, the City Council also desires to authorize the Mayor to submit ballot
arguments in favor of the measure.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the City Council of the City of Chula
Vista as follows:

SECTION 1. All of the foregoing recitals are true and correct.

SECTION 2. That the City Council pursuant to its right and authority, does hereby order
submitted to the voters at the General Municipal Election on June 5, 2018, the following
question:

Shall the measure to provide: faster responses to 9-1-1 emergency
calls, increase neighborhood police patrols, reduce gang and drug- YES
related crimes, address homelessness, improve firefighter,
paramedic and emergency medical response, and general city
services, by enacting a lA cent sales tax, until the voters decide

otherwise, generating an estimated $17 million annually for City_________

services, with all funds staying in Chula Vista, with citizen
oversight and independent audits, be adopted?	NO

This question requires the approval of a simple majority (50% plus 1) of those voting.

SECTION 4. That the proposed Ordinance to be submitted to the voters is attached as
Exhibit “A” and incorporated into this resolution by this reference.

SECTION 5. That Resolution No. 2018-004 is hereby amended accordingly and the
City Clerk is authorized, instructed, and directed to take all actions necessary to add the Sales
Tax measure to the June 5, 2018 ballot.

SECTION 6. Pursuant to California Elections Code Section 9282, the City
Council hereby acknowledges its authority, and the authority of any individual voter who
is eligible to vote on the measure, or bona fide association of citizens, or any combination
of voters and associations, to submit a written argument, not to exceed 300 words, for or
against the measure, and authorizes the Mayor to submit arguments in favor of the
measures, on behalf of the City Council. Arguments must be submitted to the City Clerk,
and may be changed until and including the date fixed by the City Clerk, after which
no arguments for or against the measure may be submitted, withdrawn or changed.

DocuSign Envelope ID: 9390CEED-9A45-49FD-BD89-9639B33DC525

Resolution No. 2018-023
Page No. 3

SECTION 7. Pursuant Elections Code section 9285, rebuttal arguments will be
allowed. The rebuttal arguments may not exceed 250 words. Rebuttal arguments must be
submitted to the City Clerk, and may be changed until and including the date fixed by the
City Clerk, after which no rebuttal arguments for or against the proposed measure may be
submitted to the City Clerk. This Section 7 is applicable only to the June 5, 2018 general
election called by this resolution and, after that election, shall expire.

SECTION 8. Pursuant to California Elections Code Section 9280, the City Clerk is
directed to transmit a copy of the measure to the City Attorney. The City Attorney is directed
to prepare an impartial analysis of the measure, not to exceed 500 words in length, showing
the effect of the measure on the existing law and the operation of the measure, and
transmit such impartial analyses to the City Clerk by the date fixed by the City Clerk.

SECTION 9. The City Clerk is hereby directed to forthwith file a certified copy of
this resolution with the Board of Supervisors and the Registrar of Voters of the County of San
Diego and to issue instructions to the Registrar of Voters to take any and all steps necessary
for the holding of the election.

SECTION 10. The City Clerk shall certify to the passage and adoption of this
resolution by a two-thirds vote of all members of the City Council, as required by Revenue &
Taxation Code section 7285.9, and file it with the City’s original resolutions.

Presented by

Approved as to form by

's---0FC0EDFA0A854BE...

Gary Halbert
City Manager

v----CF40650850444BF...

Glen R. Googins
City Attorney

DocuSign Envelope ID: 9390CEED-9A45-49FD-BD89-9639B33DC525

Resolution No. 2018-023
Page No. 4

PASSED, APPROVED, and ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of Chula Vista,
California, this 13th day of February 2018 by the following vote:

AYES:	Councilmembers:	Aguilar,	Diaz,	Padilla,	and Salas

NAYS:	Councilmembers:	None

ABSENT:	Councilmembers:	McCann

ATTEST:

-DocuSigned by:

---062BFD7C0386456...

Mary Salas, Mayor

s-DocuSigned by:

^-3074D104EAF342E_______________________

Kerry K. Bigelow, MMC, City Clerk

STATE OF CALIFORNIA	)

COUNTY OF SAN DIEGO	)

CITY OF CHULA VISTA	)

I, Kerry K. Bigelow, City Clerk of Chula Vista, California, do hereby certify that the foregoing
Resolution No. 2018-023 was duly passed, approved, and adopted by the City Council at a
regular meeting of the Chula Vista City Council held on the 13th day of February 2018.

Executed this 13th day of February 2018.

Kerry K. Bigelow, MMC, City Clerk

YES ON A

The City of Chula Vista spends 66% of its budget on Fire and Police, clearly making
the protection of life and property our top priority. Our police and firefighters do
an amazing job of keeping our community one of the safest in the country, but
they are stretched thin.

In 2007 we had 259 cops. Today we have 232, even though our population has
grown by 50,000. This has slowed down response times. Measure A will enable
us to respond quicker to all 9-1-1 calls, add school officers and increase patrols to
make our streets safer.

We have only three firefighters on every engine. But, to immediately attack a
fire, we need a minimum of four firefighters at a scene. Adding a firefighter on
each engine will help us fight fires immediately and better protect Chula Vista
families. Measure A will also help establish two-person squads to respond more
quickly to medical emergencies.

That's why we are asking you to invest in our safety with Measure A. Our police
officers and firefighters are working for us every day, but they need our help. We
have fewer police officers per capita than every other city in California, except
one. We have half of the firefighters per capita than the national average.

Measure A will help us hire 43 new cops, dispatchers, school officers and
investigators, along with 36 new firefighters. You will see improved response
times and increased patrols to keep Chula Vista one of America's safest cities.

This is a wise investment and a small price to pay for the safety of our families,
and with citizen oversight and transparency, we know exactly how our money is
being spent.

Join our Police Officers, Firefighters, and Civic Leaders and VOTE YES ON A!

02 :ti d SI aVH 81§Z

NH313 A1I0 ViSIA VlflHO
Q3AI333H

Chula Vista Taxpayers oppose Prop



How much more can we take? Our Chula Vista sales tax was increased barely a year ago. If
this goes through, Chula Vista will tie for the MOST expensive sales tax in SD County! This is
on top of the gas tax! Don’t we already pay enough? California is experiencing a mass exodus -
because many people cannot afford to live here anymore!

California ranks last in Quality of Life! People are working harder and longer to pay family
expenses, taxes and Mello Roos with less quality of life to show for it. It’s not fair that our
neighbors with the least money will suffer the most from a sales tax increase. How can we do
that to them?

Misleading Advertising! This increase is being sold to us as being earmarked for Public
Safety, but the TRUTH is that in paragraph 3.33.150 of the proposed Ordinance it states that the
“proceeds from the tax ... shall be for unrestricted general revenue purposes”. So the City of
Chula Vista can use this money for any lawful purpose. Can we trust future politicians to do
what today’s politicians are promising us?

There is no end date! To terminate this tax will require another vote -does anyone believe city
hall will ever call for that vote? The City of Chula Vista already spends 67% of the budget on
Public Safety with pensions and benefits. Before WE taxpayers consider paying more, let’s
demand the City of Chula Vista do pension reform. Chula Vista taxpayers cannot afford to keep
bailing out the city leadership.

Don’t fall for the argument about safety! That money can and will go to anything city hall
wants to spend it on!

Chula Vistans can’t afford this tax! For information: www.NoOnftcom



ac

3b»

za

cn

“U

w

to

XT

O

a:

cr

r~

>

Szo

com

r-iO

>rn

o<

*•**tm

-<o

o

m

ro

Rebuttal Measure A

We do not have to raise our sales tax to spend more on public safety. There are other
ways to get this money. The City of Chula Vista is spending about 14% of its General
Fund budget on pensions, and this number continues to climb. The City could dedicate
more money to police and fire if pension payments did not eat up so much of our
resources! City leadership should finish reforming our pension system before asking us
taxpayers to take on more burdens.

The money raised does not have to be spent on public safety. The City is not legally
required to invest this money in our Police and Fire Departments.

There is no clear end date! Once it begins, the people of Chula Vista would have to vote
to terminate this tax. The oversight committee that reviews how these funds are spent
can be disbanded after certain needs are met. Why doesn’t this measure include a similar
expiration for the tax itself?

We support the important job our Police and Fire Departments do for our community.
Because of their service, Chula Vista stands out as one of the safest cities in the United
States. Additional resources for these departments, however, must come from solutions
we can pay for!

Chula Vista is facing the HIGHEST SALES TAX in San Diego County! We cannot
afford more taxes without proper protections for taxpayers! JUST SAY NO to Measure

A!

to c d \z mi mi

XM313 Alio V1SIA nriHO
03AI303a

REBUTTAL TO THE ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE A

We are proud fiscal conservatives who will always stand up for what's right in our
community, and we are supporting Measure A.

For the past three years, bipartisan city leadership has worked to correct the
failed response times and understaffing of our police and fire departments from
previous administrations. In that time, we only had the resources to add seven
police officers, one park ranger and 12 firefighters, yet we still have the worst -
staffed fire department in the state and the worst-staffed police department in
the county.

We have cut 300 positions since 2007. We reformed pensions so that new hires
pay a higher share and retire at an older age, allowing us to reduce costs. But
that is not enough.

The city is working to diversify and increase revenues--three hotels in eastern
Chula Vista, new industrial and commercial developments and finally the
development of our Bayfront. While this is progress, the revenues will take time
to materialize.

We need Measure A to pay for 43 police personnel and 36 firefighters today. We
are committed to maintaining transparency and accountability with a citizens'
oversight committee that will ensure every dollar is spent wisely and only to
address public safety.

Chula Vista is a safe city—but we need your help to make it safer.

As fiscal conservatives, we urge you to stand with us to keep Chula Vista a great
place to raise our families. Please join us, our FIREFIGHTERS, AND POLICE
OFFICERS AND VOTE YES ON A.

US 'Z d I3HYH8IK

MH313 A1I0 VLSI A VlflNO
G3AI3038