CITY OF DAVIS MEASURE H	
Shall Ordinance 2521, which renews the existing Park Maintenance Tax of $49 per year on residential units and on non-residential units in amounts specified in the Ordinance, for 20 years, adds an annual 2% inflator, and is expected to generate $1.4 million in the first year to fund maintenance of parks, street trees, greenbelts, bike paths, medians, public landscaping, urban wildlife and habitat, swimming pools, and public recreational facilities, be adopted?	YES
	NO

CITY ATTORNEY'S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF
MEASURE H

Measure H, if approved by two-thirds of the voters voting on the measure, will renew the Park Maintenance Tax,
a special tax adopted by the Davis voters in 1998 and renewed in 2002, 2006 and 2012. Unless renewed by the
voters, the existing Park Maintenance Tax will expire on June 30,2018. If Measure H is adopted, it will renew the Park
Maintenance Tax beginning July 1, 2018 continuing through June 30,2038. This measure was placed on the ballot
by the City Council.

Measure H, the Park Maintenance Tax, as set forth in Ordinance No. 2521, will continue funding for the maintenance
and operation of community parks, greenbelts, open space, street lighting, swimming pools, and related public facilities.
As a special tax, the tax revenue must be placed in a special fund and can only be used for these purposes and
incidental expenses related to these purposes. The City Council is required to designate one or more city commissions
to annually review expenditures of Park Maintenance Tax funds and proposed expenditures for the next fiscal year.
Each designated commission will make recommendations to the City Council for use of the tax revenues by the City,
within the allowable Park Maintenance Tax purposes.

^ If approved by the voters, the Park Maintenance Tax will continue to be imposed on parcels of property within the
City based on the use of the property. For fiscal year 2018-2019, the maximum annual (Julyl -June 30) tax rates will
be:

Single-family residential	$49.00 per unit
Multi-family residential	$49.00 per unit
Group Living	$20.00 per resident
Commercial	$40.00 per 1,000 square feet of Improved Building Space up to a maximum of 10,000 square feet
Industrial	$12.80 per employee up to a maximum of 30 employees
Commercial Day Care Facilities	$14.30 per 1,000 square feet of Improved Building Space up to a maximum of 10,000 square feet
Vacant Land	$49.00 per Assessor’s Parcel

Starting for fiscal year 2019-20 and each fiscal year thereafter, the maximum tax rates will be increased on July
1 by two percent (2%). For each fiscal year the City Council will set the actual tax rate, which may be lower than the
maximum tax rate. The tax rate in any year cannot exceed that year’s maximum tax rate.

Measure H contains several exemptions to the tax including an exemption for public property and the requirement
to continue the existing low income refund program.

The Park Maintenance Tax would continue to be collected with the ad valorem property taxes for each parcel,
unless the City later decided to collect the tax with other City taxes and charges.

Measure H would sunset and be repealed on June 30, 2038, and could not be collected after that time unless
two-thirds of the voters voting in an election approved an extension or re-authorization of the tax.

/s/ Harriet A. Steiner
Davis City Attorney

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------fliiiii

23	57/21

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
MEASURE H

In 1998, the citizens of Davis first approved a $49 parks
tax, which has been successfully renewed over the years.
Measure H will renew this existing tax, allowing the City
to continue to fund parks maintenance, including family
parks, greenbelt maintenance, open space and habitat
maintenance, tree planting and maintenance, recreational
programs and facilities, and vandalism repair.

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
MEASURE H

Our City is claiming that our financial problems are all
because the State is not giving them as much money as
before. They state, "At	the beginning of the last decade,

the state returned about 27% of local property taxes to
our city. Today, approximately 18% is returned. The State
annually has shifted a total of over $3 million in property
tax from the City".

This is the same tax rate the voters first approved twenty
years ago, and has been renewed multiple times since.
The current tax expires in June of 2018.

This tax generates $1.4 million in annual revenue, used
to offset parks maintenance costs. In 1998, this funding
source generated 75% of park maintenance costs. Today
it covers 18% of this cost, which is why small inflator is
included (not to exceed 2% annually). Since 1998, we've
seen total park acreage grow by one third.

Meanwhile, for more than a decade, the state has been
shifting a large share of our local property taxes away
from our city. At the beginning of the last decade, the
state returned about 27% of local property taxes to our
city. Today, approximately 18% is returned. The state has
shifted more than $3 million in property tax revenue away
from our city.

Our city has seen its share of fiscal uncertainty, but
economic development efforts to generate revenue
are underway, as well as continued efforts to prudently
manage city costs.

Funny thing...this is the exact same language used the
City's ballot argument for the Parks Tax Measure when
it was last renewed 6 years ago in 2012. Some things
never change!

Only now the City is also claiming it is continuing "efforts
to prudently manage city costs". Not true! For example,
the average total annual compensation of our Park
Maintenance II workers has risen from $66,412 in 2012
to $83,745 in 2016 — a 26% increase. So much for
prudently managing costs!

Additionally, our last Parks Tax Measure renewal was for 6
years. But the City is now asking us to approve a 20-year
renewal...and with no built-in accountability. Every bit of
this Parks Tax Measure and other Parks budget money
can be legally diverted for other uses in the City and the
citizens footing the bill have no legal recourse. Do you
trust our government to spend your tax money wisely
for the next 20-years?

We all have household budgets that we are forced to live
within. Our City government must learn to do the same.

i

<

Think for a moment about the reasons you enjoy living
in Davis. Surely, among them is our amazing parks and
greenbelt system, and our many recreational opportunities,
programs and services. Without Measure H, these
essential civic and cultural amenities, along with other
General Fund services, risk severe cutbacks.

Please join us in voting Yes on Measure H.

/s/ Brett Lee, Mayor Pro Tern, City of Davis

Please Vote No on Measure H
www.DavisTaxProtestVote. Com

/s/ Michael Nolan

Acting President of Yolo County Taxpayers Association

/s/ John Munn

Former Member of the Board of Education of the
Davis Joint Unified School District

/s/ Lucas Frerichs, Councilmember
/s/ Robert Davis, Mayor, City of Davis
Is/ Rochelle Harry Swanson, Councilmember
Is/ Will Arnold, City Councilmember

Is/ Don Price

Emeritus Professor of History,
University of California Davis

Is/ PamNieberg

Former Co-Chair, Yes on Measure 0
(City of Davis Open Space Ordinance)



ARGUMENT AGAINST
MEASURE H

Davis does not have a revenue problem in maintaining
our beloved Parks. Davis has an employee spending
problem! Forfar too long Davis voters have approved tax
increases, ostensibly for maintaining critical City functions,
only to see the new revenues instead go to increased
employee compensation.

•	In 2004, the voters approved a half cent sales tax
increase after being told it was necessary to keep
from laying off police and firefighters. Yet the very
next year, all of that money and more was used to
give employees the biggest pay increases in
City history. Firefighters received a 36% increase
over 4 years and our average firefighter total
compensation is now over $206,000 annually!

•	In 2012, voters approved a $49 parcel tax for Parks
and then another half cent sales tax increase in
2016. Where did all that money go? Well, from
2012 to 2016 the average total salary and benefits
for all full-time City employees increased
over 25% from $99,849 to $124,954 (Source:
www.TransDarentCalifornia.ora1. Current average
municipal employee salaries are now more than
twice that of the private sector in Davis.

But the City government has done virtually nothing to
control employee compensation which now totals almost
$38 million annually for just over 300 employees. The
Finance and Budget Commission, our watchdog citizen
commission, recommended over 2 years ago that before
any new tax measures are put on the ballot the City should,

“Work to accelerate the completion of a full staffing
analysis to determine match between service delivery
needs and staffing.... This should save $1 million per
year in employee costs".

Yet this simple study was never even done! We clearly
cannot trust our City government to otherwise spend our
hard-earned money wisely for the 20-year duration of
this tax.

Please vote “NO” on Measure H.
www.DavisTaxProtestVote. com

/s/ Michael Nolan

Acting President of Yolo County Taxpayers Association

/s/ John Munn

Former President of the Board of Education of the
Davis Joint Unified School District

/s/ Don Price

Emeritus Professor of History,

University of California Davis

/s/ Pam Nieberg

Former Co-Chair, Yes on Measure O
(City of Davis Open Space Ordinance)

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST
MEASURE H

Twenty years ago, Davis voters first passed a $49 parks
tax. The city is now asking for a simple renewal of this tax
at the same rate.

Over the years, our parks and recreation services have
expanded and become more inclusive, our park acreage
has increased by one-third, all the while the funding we
receive from the state has significantly diminished.

For that reason, some have argued that the parks tax
should be increased. But the city is taking the conservative
approach and asking for the same $49 per year.

We believe 13 cents per day is a small price to pay to
help maintain our neighborhood parks and playgrounds,
our greenbelts and walking paths, and our recreational
facilities and programs.

These essential city services, and the positive impact they
have on our community, and our home values, cannot be
overstated.

In 1998, the original parks tax was described as “vital if
the city is to continue to provide the quality of life Davis
residents expect" by former Mayors Vigfus Asmundson
and Julie Partansky, who signed the ballot statement
in favor. Two decades later, this essential truth has not
changed.

Our parks and recreation services remain vital to our
community - and deserve our continued support.

On June 5, please join us in supporting our parks, and
voting Yes on Measure H.

/s/ Helen M. Thomson

Retired State Assemblymember

/s/ Bruce Gallaudet

Retired, Davis Enterprise

/s/ Robin Dewey

President, Team Davis

/s/ J. D. Denton

Retired Business Owner

/s/ Emily Griswold

Former Chair, City of Davis Recreation
and Park Commission

5 7/23



■OHM

Jr

MEASURE H

ORDINANCE NO. 2521

ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF DAVIS AMENDING ARTICLE 15.14 OF CHAPTER 15 OF THE DAVIS MUNICIPAL
CODE RENEWING AND AMENDING A PARK MAINTENANCE TAX TO FUND MAINTENANCE OF PARKS,
STREET TREES, GREENBELTS, BIKE PATHS, MEDIANS, PUBLIC LANDSCAPING, URBAN WILDLIFE
AND HABITAT, SWIMMING POOLS, AND PUBLIC RECREATIONAL FACILITIES TO ADD A TWO PERCENT
INFLATOR TO THE MAXIMUM TAX RATE BEGINNING JULY 1,2019 AND TO EXTEND THE TERM OF THE TAX

TO 2038 SUBJECT TO THE APPROVAL OF THE VOTERS

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF DAVIS, as follows:

SECTION 1. Article 15.14 of Chapter 15 of the Davis City Code is hereby amended to read as follows:

ARTICLE 15.14
PARK MAINTENANCE TAX

15.14.010 Findings.

15.14.020 Legal Authority.

15.14.030 Definitions.

15.14.040 Park Maintenance Tax.

15.14.050 Collection.

15.14.060 Annual Adjustment of Tax Rate
15.14.070 Limitation on Disposition of Revenue.

15.14.080 Exemptions.

15.14.090	Effective Date; Renewal Provision.

15.14.100 Appeals.

15.14.105	Annual Review of Expenditures by City Advisory Commission(s).
15.14.110 Severability.

15.14.010. Findings.

The Park Maintenance Tax currently provides funding to supplement the General Fund for the maintenance
of community parks, greenbelts, open space, street lighting, swimming pools, and related public recreational
facilities. The Park Maintenance Tax, which was approved by the voters in 1998,2002,2006 and again in 2012 will
expire in June of 2018. The further renewal of this special tax, if approved by an affirmative vote of two-thirds of
Davis voters, will continue the Park Maintenance Tax for an additional twenty (20) years to provide funding for the
maintenance of these facilities and amenities.

Our parks and greenbelts reflect the very character of Davis and are instrumental in making Davis the type of
community that its citizens appreciate and support. The City Council strongly believes that it is in the public
interest to continue funding maintenance of the parks, greenbelts, open space, street lighting, swimming pools,
and public recreational facilities. The special tax renewed and levied herein, if approved by a two-thirds vote of
the voters, will continue the existing Park Maintenance Tax for the next twenty years thereby providing a stable
revenue source that will continue to pay for a portion of the cost of park maintenance and also adding an annual
two percent adjustment to the amount of the tax to assist in accounting for annual inflation.

15.14.020. Legal Authority.

This special tax is levied under each of the following legal authorities: Government Code section 37100.5, which
authorizes general law cities to levy any tax that may be levied by charter cities, subject to voter approval; and
Government Code section 50075 through section 50077, which authorizes cities to impose special taxes. This tax
is a special tax authorized under Article 13A, section 4 of the California Constitution and Proposition 218. This tax
is an excise tax and is based, to the extent practicable, upon the use to which a property is put and the benefit that
the use of property receives from the public recreational facilities supported by this tax. This tax is based, among
other things, on the benefit that different land uses of property receive from the availability of properly maintained
parks, open space, greenbelts, medians, public recreational facilities, and public lighting. This tax is not a property
tax; it is not based on the status of ownership of property; nor is it based on the value of property.

5 7/2*

26

)

15.14.030. Definitions.

The following terms shall have the following definitions when used in this article:

"Assessor's parcel" or 'parcel" means a lot or parcel shown in an assessor's parcel map with an assigned
assessor's parcel number.

"Assessor's parcel map" means an official map of the county assessor of the county of Yolo designating
parcels by assessor's parcel number.

“City" means the city of Davis as its jurisdictional boundaries exist on July 1st of each year that this tax is
in effect.

"Commercial property" means all parcels that are used for nonresidential land uses that do not classify the
parcel as industrial property or day care property, as defined below.

"Common area" means a separate legal or assessor's parcel owned by a common interest development
association or as tenants in common by the owners of separate interests in a common interest development
provided that the common area: (1) in the case of residential property, cannot be used as an independent
residential dwelling unit; or (2) in the case of commercial or industrial property is not improved building
space.

"Day care property" means all property that is used as a commercially operated day care center and is not
used as a residence.

"Developed property" means, in any fiscal year, all parcels of taxable property with a structure that has
been cleared for occupancy before March 1 st of the prior fiscal year. For purposes of levying the special
tax, each parcel of developed property shall be assigned to one of the land use classes identified in Table
1 below.

"Fiscal year' means the period starting on July 1 and ending the following June 30th.

"Group living property" means all parcels of developed property that have been issued conditional use
permits from the city’s planning division for a group living use.

"Improved building space” means the greater of (i) gross building area as shown on building permits issued
for any property, or (ii) gross building area as measured or determined by an engineer retained by the city.

“Industrial property" shall generally include but not be limited to, all parcels of developed property with
a building or structure that is used for assembling, disassembling, fabricating, finishing, manufacturing,
packaging, repair or processing operations, as classified by the city's planning division.

"Land use class" means any one of the six classes listed in Table 1 below.

"Maximum special tax" means the maximum special tax, determined in accordance with Section 15.14.050,
that can be levied by the City Council in any fiscal year.

"Multifamily residential property" means all parcels of developed property with a residential structure or
structures consisting of five or more residential units on a single parcel.

"Public improvements” means those facilities, improvements, and amenities that will be constructed,
installed, operated, serviced, maintained, and repaired from proceeds of the special tax and shall include,
but not be limited to, the following: public lighting, landscaping, parks, public areas, public recreational
facilities, open space, and bike trails.

“Public property" means property owned by a public agency, public rights-of-way, unoccupied public
utility property and property encumbered with a public or utility easement that makes impractical utilization
of the property for other than the public or utility purpose set forth in the easement.

"Single-family residential property" means all parcels of developed property with a residential structure or
structures consisting of less than five residential units on a single parcel.

"Special tax" means that tax levied pursuant to application of the special tax formula set forth below to pay
for the construction, installation, operation, servicing, maintenance, and repair of the public improvements.

"Taxable property" means all assessor's parcels within the city as the boundaries of the city exist on July
1 st of each year which are not exempt from the special tax pursuant to law or section 15.14.090 below.

"Vacant land" means ail parcels of taxable property that have either no structures or a structure or structures
that have not been cleared for occupancy.

mm

5 7/25

15.14.040. Park Maintenance Tax.

a. If approved by the voters, commencing July 1, 2018 for fiscal year 2018-2019, the city shall continue
collecting funding for parks, open space, public lighting and related public recreational facilities in the
form of a special park tax in the manner and at the rates set forth herein.

1. Developed Property. The maximum special tax for all parcels of developed property shall be
determined by reference to Table 1 below:

Table 1	Maximum Special Tax Rates	
Land Use Class	Description	Maximum Special Tax
1	Single-family residential	$49.00 per unit
2	Multifamily residential	$49.00 per unit
3	Group living	$20.00 per resident
4	Commercial	$40.00 per 1,000 square feet of Improved Building Space up to a maximum of 10,000 square feet
5	Industrial	$12.80 per employee up to a maximum of 30 employees
6	Day care	$14.30 per 1,000 square feet of Improved Building Space up to a maximum of 10,000 square feet

2. Vacant Land. The maximum special tax rate for vacant land shall be forty-nine dollars per assessor's
parcel.

b. Method of Apportionment of the Special Tax.

1.	For fiscal year 2018-2019, the City shall levy the special tax at the maximum tax rates set forth
above. For fiscal years 2019-2020 and each fiscal year thereafter, the maximum tax rate shall be
increased at the beginning of each fiscal year by two percent (2%). For each fiscal year beginning
with the 2019-20 fiscal year, the City Council shall set the actual tax rate for the applicable fiscal
year, not to exceed the maximum tax rates set forth above as adjusted as set forth in this section
and in section 15.14.060. and the special tax shall be levied at the amount set by the City Council.

2.	The special tax shall be levied on each parcel of land in the amount determined by reference to this
Section 15.14.040:

A.	On each parcel of taxable property in Land Use Classes 1 through 6, inclusive.

B.	If there is more than one land use class on a parcel, the special tax shall be determined by
separately applying the appropriate special tax for each land use class on the parcel and levying
the sum total of the combined special taxes.

15.14.050. Collection.

The park maintenance tax shall be collected in the same manner and at the same time as ordinary ad valorem
property taxes and shall be subject to the same penalties for non-payment. If necessary to meet financial obligations
or if it becomes more cost-efficient as determined by the City Council, the City may collect the park maintenance
tax in the same manner and at the same time as City taxes, fees and/or charges provided that the total annual tax
imposed shall not exceed the maximum amounts set forth in this article.

15.14.060. Annual Adjustment of Tax Rate

The maximum allowable tax rate shall be increased annually beginning July 1,2019, by two percent (2%) per year
unless modified or changed by a further vote of the electorate of the City. There shall be no other cost of living or
COLA permitted.

15.14.070. Limitation on Disposition of Revenue.

Revenues collected under the provisions of this article shall be deposited in a special fund called the park maintenance
special tax fund and shall be used only for the operation and maintenance of landscaping, park, open space,
median, greenbelt, swimming pools, public recreational facilities and public lighting improvements, within the City
and for the incidental expenses incurred in the administration of this tax, including, but not limited to the cost of
elections, and the cost of collection.



15.14.080. Exemptions.

a.	Public Property. No special tax shall be levied against public property.

b.	Low Income Exemption. To avoid undue hardship, the City Council shall continue the existing low-income
refund program subject to such terms and conditions as the City Council may, from time to time, determine.

c.	Common Areas. No special tax shall be levied against common areas.

15.14.090. Effective Date: Renewal Provision.

a. This article shall take effect immediately upon its approval by a two-thirds vote of the voters voting in the
election called to approve the ordinance.

b. If an extension or re-authorization of this article is approved by the voters of the City at an election called
for that purpose by or on June 30,2038, this article shall be extended or re-authorized. If this article is not
so extended or re-authorized by the voters, this article shall no longer be in effect.

15.14.100. Appeals.

The imposition of this tax and/or amount of the tax imposed based on the use of property may be appealed to the
City Council under such procedures as the council shall, by ordinance, adopt. The City Council may modify the
appeals process from time to time in order to facilitate the hearing and resolution of appeals.

15.14.105	Annual Review of Expenditures bv City Advisory CommissionfeL

To promote the efficient and effective use of the special tax revenues, the City Council shall designate a commission
or commissions to review the expenditures of funds collected though this special tax and the proposed expenditures
for the next fiscal year. Each designated commission shall make recommendations to the City Council to be used
during the City’s budgeting process and to assist City staff and the City Council in proposing and approving the
projects that will be funded, in whole or in part, through this special tax. The Council may, from time to time, modify
the commission® that will perform this annual review and the Council may also request other city committees or
commissions to also review the prior or planned expenditures of revenues from this special tax.

15.14.110. Severability.

If any sentence, clause, article, section, subsection, phrase or portion of this Ordinance is for any reason held to be
invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portion of this ordinance. The voters of the City
hereby declare that they would have adopted the remainder of this Ordinance, including each sentence, clause,
article, section, subsection, phrase or portion of this Ordinance, irrespective of the invalidity of any other sentence
clause, article, section, subsection, phrase or portion of this ordinance.

INTRODUCED by the City Council of the City of Davis this 6th day of February, 2018, by the following vote:

AYES: Arnold, Frerichs, Lee, Swanson, Davis
NOES: None

ATTEST:

/s/ Robb Davis
Mayor

/s/ Zoe S. Mirabile, CMC
City Clerk

This ordinance shall be deemed PASSED AND ADOPTED only upon its approval by a two-thirds vote of the voters
voting in the General Municipal Election on June 5, 2018.

PASSED______ NOT PASSED.