MEASURE G

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF
MEASURE G

Measure G was placed on the ballot by the Board of Trustees (Board)
for the East Side Union High School District (District). The Board
proposes renewing and increasing an expiring tax on parcels of real
property. If approved, a tax of $49 per parcel per year will be collected
beginning in fiscal year 2018-2019. This proposed tax will expire, and
collection will end, seven years later.

For the District to impose the proposed tax, Measure G must be
approved by at least two-thirds of those voting on it.

There are two exemptions from the proposed tax. First, upon
application, the District may grant an exemption for any parcel that is
owner-occupied by a person 65 years or older. Second, parcels that
would otherwise be exempt from property tax will also be exempt from
the proposed tax.

State law requires the District to state the specific purposes for which
the tax proceeds will be used and to only spend the proceeds of the tax
for these purposes. The stated purposes of the proposed tax are:

•	Developing and implementing programs for 21st century
science, technology, engineering, math, reading and writing
instruction;

•	Attracting and retaining highly qualified teachers and staff;
and

•	Developing and implementing career and technical education
pathways for college and career success, including computer
science, biology, biotech, and high-tech skills.

The District will provide a share of the proceeds to public charter
schools based on such schools' proportionate share of enrollment, if
those schools meet certain requirements set out in the Measure.

The District is also required to provide additional accountability
measures for the proceeds. These measures include: (1) depositing
the proceeds into a fund that is separate from other District funds; and
(2) providing an annual written report to the Board stating the amount of
funds collected and expended, and the status of any project authorized
to be funded from the tax proceeds. The Board will also establish an
independent Citizens' Oversight Committee to provide oversight of
expenditures of the tax proceeds.

The District will reduce this tax if it has the unintended effect of reducing
state or federal government funding that would otherwise be available to
the District.

A "yes" vote is a vote to approve a parcel tax of $49 per parcel for
seven years.

A "no" vote is a vote to not approve the proposed parcel tax.

James R. Williams
County Counsel

By: Isl Danielle L. Goldstein
Deputy County Counsel

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE G
INTRODUCTION

"To support quality education for East Side Union High School
District students, with funds that cannot be taken by the State,
to maintain: 21st century science, technology, engineering,
math, reading, writing instruction; college preparation;
career/technical education in computers, arts, hands-on
science, business; attract/retain high quality teachers,
counselors, staff; shall the measure to levy $49 per parcel for
7 years be adopted, raising $6 million annually, exempting
senior citizens, requiring independent oversight, with all funds
supporting classroom instruction?"

PURPOSES

To provide local revenue that cannot be taken by the State and to
maintain high-quality public education in schools within the East Side
Union High School District (the "District"), the District proposes to levy
and collect an education parcel tax annually for 7 years as more fully
described below under "EDUCATION PARCEL TAX AND
PROCEDURES," and to implement accountability measures in
connection with the education parcel tax and to provide oversight and
accountability to ensure that funds are used only for the following
specific purposes:

•	Develop and implement programs for 21st century
science, technology, engineering, math, reading and
writing instruction;

•	Attract/retain highly qualified teachers and staff, and

•	Develop and implement for career/technical education
pathways for college and career success, including
computer science, biology, biotech, and high tech skills.

The Board of Trustees will not fund any program other than those
listed above from the proceeds of the education parcel tax.

EDUCATION PARCEL TAX AND PROCEDURES

Amount of Education Parcel Tax. Subject to two-thirds approval of
the voters, the education parcel tax of $49 per parcel (except exempt
parcels, as described below) shall become effective for 7 years
commencing with fiscal year 2018-19 and be collected by the Santa
Clara County Tax Collector at the same time as and along with, and
shall be subject to the same penalties as general ad valorem taxes
collected by said tax collector.

Definition of Parcel. A parcel shall be defined as any unit of land in
the District that receives a separate tax bill from the Santa Clara County
Tax Collector.

Exemptions. The following exemptions shall apply to the levy of the
qualified special tax.

•	Othenivise Exempt Property. All property that would
otherwise be exempt from property taxes shall also be
exempt from the education parcel tax.

SC Ballot Type 006 - Page 65

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE G-Continued

•	Senior Citizen Exemption. An exemption shall be
available to persons who are 65 years or older and own
and occupy as a principal residence a parcel subject to
the education parcel tax.

Property owners seeking the senior citizen exemption must apply
to the District for such exemption under procedures established by the
District or otherwise as required by law or by the Santa Clara County
Tax Collector.

Exclusive Procedures. The procedures described herein with
respect to the levy and collection of the education parcel tax and
exemptions, and any additional procedures established by the Board of
Trustees of the District, shall be the exclusive claims procedure for
claimants seeking an exemption, refund, reduction, or re-computation of
the qualified special tax. Whether any particular claim is to be resolved
by the District or by the County shall be determined by the District, in
coordination with the County as necessary. The District's Board of
Trustees may adopt such additional or supplemental procedures as it
deems necessary or convenient for the administration of the education
parcel tax.

ACCOUNTABILITY MEASURES

Government Code Accountability. In accordance with the
requirements of California Government Code sections 50075.1 and
50075.3, the following accountability measures, among others, shall
apply to the qualified special taxes levied in accordance with this
Measure:

•	the specific purposes of the education parcel tax shall be
those purposes identified above under the heading
"PURPOSES,"

•	the proceeds of the education parcel tax shall be applied
only to those specific purposes identified above under
the heading "PURPOSES,"

•	a separate, special account shall be created into which
the proceeds of the education parcel tax must be
deposited; and

•	the chief fiscal officer of the District shall file an annual
written report with the Board of Trustees of the District
showing (1) the amount of funds collected and expended
from the proceeds of the education parcel tax and (2) the
status of any projects, programs, or purposes identified
above under the heading "PURPOSES."

Citizens' Oversight Committee. In addition to the accountability
measures required by the Government Code, an independent Citizens'
Oversight Committee shall be appointed by the Board of Trustees to
advise the Board on the expenditures funded by the measure in order to
ensure that said funds are spent for the purposes approved by the
voters. The Citizens' Oversight Committee will monitor the expenditures
of these funds by the District and will report on an annual basis to the
Board and community on how these funds have been spent.

Annual Independent Audits. The District will engage a third party

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE G-Continued

independent auditor to conduct annual audits reviewing the revenues
and expenditures of the education parcel tax to confirm that funds are
spent for the purposes described in the measure.

DISTRIBUTION OF EDUCATION PARCEL TAX FUNDS

Each fiscal year the District will share in the education parcel tax
proceeds as provided herein: (1) with public charter schools currently
operating within the District's boundaries as of June 5, 2018, serving
students who reside in the District, and (2) with a new or proposed new
public charter school which submitted its charter petition pursuant to
Education Code sections 47605, 47605.5, 47605.6, or 47605.8 on or
before November 1, 2017, and received approval of its petition on or
before June 5, 2018. The District and each such charter school shall,
as determined by the Board of Trustees, receive a proportionate share
of the total proceeds from the education parcel tax actually received by
the District each year (the "Total Proceeds") pursuant to the following
provisions:

1.	Calculation of Proportionate Share. Each charter school's
proportionate share of educational parcel tax proceeds shall be
determined as follows:

(a)	Each school year the District shall add the total in-District
enrollment of all charter schools to the total District
enrollment as reported to the California Department of
Education in the California Basic Educational Data
System (CBEDS) Online Reporting Application (CBEDS-
ORA) as of October 31 each year, which sum shall equal
the "Total In-District Enrollment".

(b)	The District shall divide the Total Proceeds by Total In-
District Enrollment, which shall equal the "Per Student
Share of Parcel Taxes" for the school year.

(c)	For each charter school the District shall calculate the
charter school's proportionate share of the Total
Proceeds by multiplying the charter school's in-District
enrollment by the Per Student Share of Parcel Taxes.

2.	Accountability. As a condition to receiving its Per Student
Share of Parcel Taxes each charter school shall comply with the
following transparency and accountability requirements. The District
reserves the right, through Board action at an open session of a public
meeting, to suspend, reduce or eliminate, in whole or in part, the parcel
tax proceeds disbursed to such charter school for failure to comply with
these requirements:

(a)	No later than October 31 of each year, each charter
school shall provide the District with student directory
information (including student name, residence address,
telephone number, and school district of residence in
sortable electronic format) to allow the District to
determine such charter school's in-District enrollment for
purposes of verifying the charter school's proportionate
share of the Total Proceeds. The District will take
reasonable measures to protect this information as may
be required by applicable federal and State law.

SC Ballot Type 006 - Page 66

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE G-Continued

(b)	Each charter school shall be solely and individually
responsible for ensuring that all parcel tax proceeds are
spent consistent with, and only for the purposes
identified in, the voter approved parcel tax. In addition,
each charter school shall ensure that its independent
auditor provides to the District as part of its annual audit
a separate balance sheet reflecting the revenues and
expenses relating to the expenditures of proceeds
received from the qualified special tax.

(c)	Each charter school shall adhere to the highest levels of
transparency in its expenditure of its share of the
proceeds, in part, through compliance with the following
requirements:

(i)	A charter school shall only approve the expenditure
of parcel tax proceeds in a duly agendized open
session meeting of its governing board. The
charter school shall provide the District no less than
72 hours notice of such a meeting, with a copy of
the agenda and all information provided to charter
school's governing board in connection with such
agenda item.

(ii)	No later than September 15 each year, each
charter school shall provide to the District a written
report accounting in detail for its expenditure of
parcel tax proceeds in the previous fiscal year and
detailing the status of any projects, programs, or
purposes to (a) develop and implement programs
for 21st century science, technology, engineering,
math, reading and writing instruction, (b) to
attract/retain highly qualified teachers and staff, and
(c) to develop and implement career/technical
education pathways for college and career success,
including computer science, biology, biotech, and
high tech skills. The report shall provide sufficient
detail for the District, the District's appointed
Citizens Oversight Committee, and the District's
auditors to determine if the Charter School
expended its share of the proceeds as required by
the voter-approved measure.

(iii)	Each Charter School shall track its expenditure of
its share of proceeds separately from all other
revenues, and by resource code, for the purposes
of making its annual written report to the District.

(iv)	Each charter school shall cooperate with the
appointed Citizens' Oversight Committee in its
monitoring of expenditures of parcel tax proceeds,
including timely responding to requests for
information and documents relating to the
expenditure of tax proceeds.

3.	Good Standing. To maintain its eligibility for any distribution
of parcel tax proceeds, each charter school must be in operation and
must be and remain in good standing with its charter authorizer.

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE G-Continued
PROTECTION OF FUNDING

Current law forbids any decrease in State or Federal funding to the
District because of the District's adoption of an education parcel tax.
However, if any such funds are reduced because of the adoption of this
education parcel tax, then the amount of the education parcel tax will be
reduced annually as necessary in order to restore such State or Federal
funding.

SEVERABILITY

The Board of Trustees of the District hereby declares, and the
voters by approving this measure concur, that every section, paragraph,
sentence and clause of this measure has independent value, and the
Board of Trustees and the voters would have adopted each provision
hereof regardless of every other provision hereof. Upon approval of this
measure by the voters, should any part be found by a court of
competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, all remaining parts
hereof shall remain in full force and effect to the fullest extent allowed
by law.

SC Ballot Type 006 - Page 67

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE G

Vote YES on Measure G to support East Side High School students
strive for excellence.

Measure G guarantees locally-controlled funding needed to protect
21st-century science, technology, engineering, math, reading and
writing instruction in our local East Side High Schools: Andrew
Hill, Evergreen, Independence, James Lick, Mt. Pleasant, Oak
Grove, Piedmont Hills, Santa Teresa, Silver Creek, Overfelt, Yerba
Buena, Foothill and Calero.

Student achievement in our local high schools is on the rise.
Graduation rates are climbing and now exceed state and county
averages. Last year alone, more than 1,200 graduates went straight to
San Jose State. Many of these hard-working students are the first in
their families to attend college.

East Side students deserve the same chance as other students to learn
necessary skills for success in Silicon Valley. Measure G protects and
supports programs like computer science, biology, bio-tech, physics,
web tech design, robotics and space tech engineering.

Vote YES on Measure G:

•	Maintain 21st-century science, technology, engineering, math,
reading and writing instruction

•	Attract and retain high-quality teachers, counselors and staff

•	Protect and enhance hands-on science programs

•	Maintain college preparation programs and resources for all
students

•	Protect arts and music and keep school libraries open

•	Protect counseling to help students with academic planning
for college and careers

•	Provide career-development and vocational job-training
programs

Every penny supports East Side High Schools:

•	All funds are for our local high schools and cannot be taken
by the State

•	Senior citizens are exempt from Measure G

•	Independent citizens' oversight and independent annual
audits are required

•	No funds can be used for administrators' salaries

Vote YES on Measure G we can't wait for unreliable State funding to
protect core academic programs and keep qualified teachers in the
classroom.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE G-Continued

East Side High School students are counting on your YES vote.

Isl Carl Guardino
President & CEO Silicon Valley Leadership Group

/s/Marisa Hanson
President, East Side Teachers Association

Isl Thanh T. Bui
President, East Side Vietnamese Parent Association

Isl Roxana Marachi
Associate Professor of Education

SC Ballot Type 006 - Page 68

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE G

Tech Measure I (2014) guaranteed our students access to modern
technology, and promised to ensure they have what they need for the
next 30 years. How can Measure G also make that same promise? If
they did not predict costs with that bond measure correctly, and need
more money now, what guarantee do our students have that they got
the math right this time?

Proposition 30 (2012) Education Protection Account (EPA) protects
schools from having their budgets slashed too much by the state. In
fact, in the 4 fiscal years that the program has been running, East Side
Union has not needed to access those funds! Existing bond measures,
and correct accounting, have allowed our schools and students to
thrive.

Proposition 2 (2014) allows for excess taxes received to go into a
special school reserve fund. The state predicts it will receive $2.4 billion
in school reserve funds between now and May 2018. Our students will
have the funding they deserve for a great education, even if we hit
another recession. Don't let these bond measure people scare you, our
schools and students are on the right path, without needing another $42
million in taxes. VOTE NO ON MEASURE G

Isl Jennifer Imhoff
Chair, Libertarian Party of Santa Clara County

Isl Mark W.A. Hinkle
President: Silicon Valley Taxpayers Association

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE G

East Side Union School District currently has five existing bond
measure:

•	G is spending $298M to "provide greater security and safety,
relieve overcrowding, and improve technology".

•	E is spending $349M "to improve computer/science labs,
provide greater safety and security, repair, equip, construct,
and acquire classrooms and facilities".

•	I is spending $120M "to continue to upgrade technology,
improve security and safety, and repair, equip and construct
classrooms and facilities at District high schools, adult,
alternative, and charter schools".

•	TM-I is spending $113.2M by "providing a replenished source
of funding for new technology every three to four years for the
next two decades".

•	Z is spending $509M for "improvements including, but not
limited to, improving and constructing science, technology and
engineering classrooms; removing hazardous materials from
classrooms and schools; upgrading fire/security systems for
increased student safety; improving disabled (ADA)
accessibility; replacing portable classrooms; replacing
deteriorating roofs and fixing leaky plumbing".

$905 million dollars from above bond measures is still unused and ready
to go towards supporting our local schools. ESUSD issued bonds
in the last three elections, along with one for $78 million just last year.
With so much money already going towards school technology, what
would you rather spend this additional $42 Million on?
https://www.scclp.org/2018_measures

Isl Jennifer Imhoff
Chair, Libertarian Party of Santa Clara County

/s/Mark W.A. Hinkle
President: Silicon Valley Taxpayers Association

SC Ballot Type 006 - Page 69

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE G

We appreciate that our opponents recognize our community has a
history of solving problems and working together.

We're voting YES on Measure G because ensuring a quality education
for local high schoolers is one of the best investments we can make.
Measure G opens doors for East Side students to compete for college
and careers in Silicon Valley.

Fact: The District has a proven track record of spending taxpayer
dollars carefully. Citizens' oversight reports and annual audits prove it.
ESUHSD is considered a model of fiscal prudence by independent
auditors.

Fact: Measure G guarantees locally-controlled funding that cannot
be taken by the State. We need to protect 21st-century science,
technology, engineering, math, reading and writing instruction in our
local high schools.

Fact: The State of California doesn't provide enough funding to

ensure high quality local schools-but Measure G provides local funds
under local control.

Fact: East Side students are achieving excellence. Last year alone,
more than 1,200 East Side graduates went straight to SJSU. Many
became the first in their families to attend college.

Fact: Senior citizens are exempt from Measure G.

Fact: Independent citizens' oversight is required.

Fact: Measure G helps East Side high school students reach
college and careers:

•	Attract and retain high-quality teachers, counselors and staff

•	Protect and enhance hands-on science programs

•	Maintain college preparation programs and resources for all
students

•	Provide career-development and vocational job-training
programs

The need is real, and the plan is right. Please study the facts and join
us: vote YES on Measure G.

/s/Cindy Chavez
Vice President, Santa Clara County Board of Supervisors

Isl Emmanuel Barbara

Interim CEO and Vice President, Advocacy & Thought Leadership
ALearn Silicon Valley Education Foundation

Isl Jethroe Moore II
Pastor/Silicon Valley-San Jose NAACP

Isl Jon D. Reinke
Member, ESUHSD Board Audit Committee

Isl Sridhar Holagunda

President, Evergreen Valley High School Parent Teacher Student
Association (PTSA)

SC Ballot Type 006 - Page 70