IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE Q

The California Constitution and State law authorize school districts to levy
qualified special taxes for specified purposes. Government Code Sections 50077 and
50079 provide that such a tax measure passes if two-thirds of those voting on it vote to
approve the measure.

The Ravenswood City School District (“District”) currently has an annual
special parcel tax of $196 per parcel adopted in 2011 that will expire June 30, 2018.
By this Measure, the District’s Board of Trustees proposes to renew the special tax on
parcels in the District to raise funds to support various educational purposes outlined
below. If this Measure is approved, an annual tax of $ 196 per parcel, adjusted annually
for inflation, at a rate not to exceed 3%, would be imposed starting July 1, 2018, for a
period of eight years, with the tax ending June 30, 2026. The District estimates $1.2
million would be raised annually by the renewed tax.

The proposed tax applies to any unit of real property which lies wholly or
partially in the District that receives a separate property tax bill from San Mateo County
tax collection officials. Parcels otherwise exempt from such property taxes will be
exempt from this proposed tax. Individuals owning and occupying a parcel as a single-
family residence may apply for an exemption to the tax if they also: (1) are age 65 years
or older; (2) receive Supplemental Security Income for a disability, regardless of age;
or (3) receive Social Security Disability Insurance benefits, regardless of age, and have
an annual income not exceeding 250% of the 2012 federal poverty guidelines. Parcels
presently exempt from the District’s existing parcel tax are automatically exempt from
the tax under this Measure.

The stated purposes of the parcel tax are to improve students’ reading, writing,
and math skills by recruiting and retaining experience, highly qualified staff and by
supporting supplemental educational programs and services.

The proceeds of the tax shall only be used for the stated purposes, and for no
other purposes.

The District will provide the following additional accountability measures for
the tax proceeds: the proceeds will be placed into a special account; and an annual
report accounting for the proceeds collected and expended and the status of projects or
programs funded by the tax will be filed with the District’s Board of Trustees. Also,
the District’s appropriations limit shall be increased annually if necessary to ensure
revenue from the tax may be spent for the listed purposes.

A “yes” vote on this measure would impose an annual tax of $196 per
taxable parcel on property within the District for a period of eight years
beginning July 1, 2018, for the purposes listed above.

A “no” vote on this measure would not allow the parcel tax to be levied,
with the existing annual parcel tax of $196 per parcel expiring without
replacement on June 30, 2018.

This measure passes if two-thirds of those voting on the measure vote “yes.”

At Ravenswood City School District, we face many challenges - but we continue to overcome them! \7_
With the community's help, we are committed to the goal of providing every one of our students the \ y
education they deserve, in a classroom and on a campus they can be proud of.

To do that, however, we must maintain all the funding we can here in Ravenswood - so vote YES on
Measure "Q"! Measure "Q" will renew our existing parcel tax so we can improve reading and writing for |(p

our students, and retain and attract quality teachers. Measure "Q" will ensure our schools will keep
small class sizes to create better learning environments, because research demonstrates that children /J
benefit from the personal attention they receive in small classes. fQ

To help our students be prepared for 21st Century Silicon Valley jobs, Measure "Q" will enhance I 4"
classroom experiences to expand opportunities for students in technology, science, engineering, and
math. It will also strengthen our career education and college preparation programs, all to ensure that
our students are ready for the jobs of tomorrow. ^

Vote YES on Measure "Q." to: Cj

•	Improve local students' learning and achievement in reading, writing, math and other (2
educational programs ^

Invest in classroom computers and technology (#

Increase student safety3
Maintain reduced class sizes Ij-
Attract and retain highly qualified staff <0

Provide a quality learning environment for current and future students \0

Measure "Q" has accountability requirements and can only be used to improve the education provided | iL
to our local students. Measure "Q" requires:

•	An independent oversight committee u

•	All funds spent for our local students - J

Measure "Q" makes sense. Measure. "Q" will continue improving Ravenswood schools - and we know I 2
that improving our schools makes our community a more desirable place to live, do business, and raise a ) ^
family, j

Vote YES on Measure "Q"!	* *•}■-

CTII Cn^THEOFRCEOFTHE

rlLuU CHIEF ELECTIONS OFFICER
OF SAN MATEO COUNTY, CAUF

MAR 1 6 2018

DEPUTY CLERK

Ravenswood City School District $196 Parcel Tax: Argument Against Measure Q

With this latest “temporary” parcel tax, the Ravenswood City School District claims they 0
need more money to continue providing quality education.

The district just got a $26M bond message approved in 2016 and now they’re back for \(c
another $70M bond this election. Plus they want another parcel tax.

Have they earned this extension that will cost you $1,568 over the next 8 years (on top
of the taxes you are already paying)?

Let’s look at the student test scores for Math learners attaining proficiency:

•	2015-16 school year results: 12% meeting proficiency.

•	That means 88% do NOT meet standards. /

•	Source: California Department of Education Data Partnership 2-jj

If you got 12% on a test, that would be an F- grade, would it not? \($

Should you, the voters, reward a 88% failure rate with more money? ' 2- M

By

If no, we encourage you to vote NO on Measure Q. j O

•	For English, only 19% met or exceed standards!

No wonder that student enrollment is declining. 7

MhWIMEOmCEOFTHE

r CHEF ELECTIONS OFFICER

0 COUNTY CAUF

MAR 1 6 2018

DEPUTY CLERK

Ravenswood City School District is already spending $15,924 per student. That’s
139% of the California average. Clearly more money equals lower grades! ;

For an average class size of 25 students, that’s $398.100 per class per year. \ if

The average salary and benefits for teachers is $81,339 per shortened work year. 13

Yet, the District administration wants more of your hard earned money to pad their
salaries and fat pension plans.

The measure says that no funds will be used for administration. But, funds generated If
separately from this parcel tax can be used for administration expenses without limits. \J
So, that is really an empty promise. Do not be fooled. \ \

Tell the Ravenswood City School District Board to be fiscally responsible by voting NO
on Measure Q.

If you reward failure, you will get more failure!

IIS’

2-

CII Cn,NTHEOPF,CEOFTHE
f ILCU CHIEF ELECTIONS OFFICER
OF SAN MATEO COUNTY, CAUF

MAR 2 6 2018

Ravenswood City School District $196 Parcel Tax:

Favor of Measure Q

MARK CHURCH, Chii
Rebuttal to thte Argument in

DEPUTY C

:Terk

With this latest “temporary” parcel tax, the Ravenswood City School
need more money to continue providing quality education.

District claims they

----------fWl'l't	TTV

lO

8

The district just got a $26M bond message approved in 2016 and now they’re back for
another $70M bond this election. Plus they want another parcel tax.

/6

H

Have they earned this extension that will cost you $1,568 over the next 8 years (on top
of the taxes you are already paying)?

Let’s look at the student test scores for Math learners attaining proficiency:

•	2015-16)school year results: 12% meeting proficiency.

•	That means 88% do NOT meet standards.

•	Source: www.ed-data.org/district/San-Mateo/Ravenswood-City-Elementary
If you got 12% on a test, that would be an F- grade, would it not?

Should you, the voters, reward an 88% failure rate with more money?

If no, we encourage you to vote NO on Measure Q.

•	For English, only 19% met or exceed standards!

No wonder that student enrollment is declining.

Ravenswood City School District is already spending $15,924 per student. That’s
139% of the California average. Clearly more money equals lower grades!

For an average class size of 25 students, that’s $398,100 per class per year.

The average salary and benefits for teachers is $81,339 per shortened work year.

Yet, the District administration wants more of your hard earned money to pad their
salaries and fat pension plans.

Tell the Ravenswood City School District Board to be fiscally responsible by voting NO_
on Measure Q.

>4W310 Aind3Q

?

U

b

f

x

Uo

a

(0

b

*

b

U

/3

S'

/o

Ag

if you reward failure, you will get more failure!

For more information please visit us at
http://www.svtaxpayers.org/2018-ravenswood-parcel-tax

J80UK) suoipan mi H0H0H0 Mavwy

810Z 9 Z HVW

rinvo 'ainooo oaiyw nvs jo

JOLL03T3 J3IH0 j
3H1 JO 30UJ0 3H1 Nl

H30IJJ0SNOLL03T3 33IH0

-------- ivJ3 IIP

to



n

ii

V

7

x

I

a

\o

&

n

13

n

a

1

7

I

Tyr io.

Ravenswood schools still need our help - vote YES on Measure "Q"!

(o i0

At Ravenswood City School District, we know we face many challenges - but we continue to overcome
them! We know we have a long journey to get there, but with the community's help, we are committed
to the goal of providing every one of our students the education they deserve.

IS

n

tf-



We know that resources are not as abundant as those opposing Measure "Q" - who do NOT live in
Ravenswood - may think. Compared to other districts on the Peninsula, Ravenswood receives less
funding. Compared to the lives of any other children in San Mateo Countv. Ravenswood's students face
many more challenges. And the District is still in the process of making many painful budget cuts - so
now we need the community to continue supporting and investing in our students and our schools! Vot^/
YES on .Measure "Q" I

tz

%

T

3



Measure "Q" will extend our existing parcel tax - so vote YES on Measure "Q" to help:



•	Improve local students' learning and achievement

•	Invest in classroom computers and technology

•	Increase student safety

•	Maintain reduced class sizes

•	Attract and retain highly qualified staff

•	Provide a quality learning environment for current and future students

(o

to

b

V

c

(o

Measure "Q" will continue improving Ravenswood schools - and we know that improving our schools
makes our community a more desirable place to live, do business, and raise a family. Most importantly,
we know that we must continue taking steps towards providing our students with the schools and
education they need and deserve.

Vote YES on Measure "Q"!

/3

n-

5



u.

c II cnIN THE OFFICE OF THE
rILtU CHIEF ELECTIONS OFFICER
OF SAN MATEO COUNTY, CALIF

MAR 2 6 2018

•OUR CHILDREN - OUR FUTURE”

Ravenswood City School District

ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE

2120 Euclid Avenue, East Palo Alto, California 94303
(650)329-2800 Fax(650)323-1072

Hoard Members
Ana Maria Pulido, President
Sharifa Wilson, Vice President
Marielena Gaona- Mendoza, Clerk
Dr Charlie M. Knight, Member
Marcelino Lopez, Member

Dr. Gloria M. Hernandez-GofY
Superintendent

BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE
^	nppirpdfthf	RAVENSWOOD CITY SCHOOL DISTRICT

FILED C^aB^OFRCWCOUNTY OF SAN MATEO, STATE OF CALIFORNIA

OF SAN MATEO COUNTY, CALIF.

By

MAR 01 2018.	RESOLUTION	NO.	1229

RESOLUTION CALLING PARCEL TAX ELECTION

(J WHEREAS, the Ravenswood City School District (the "District”) is determined
to provide excellent educational programs to all its students; and

WHEREAS, it is essential the District have stable, reliable local funding to
maintain and improve its quality educational programs; and

WHEREAS, the citizens, taxpayers and voters of the District voted to support the
Measure B parcel tax in 2011 to improve local elementary and middle school students’ learning
and achievement in reading, writing, math and other educational programs, invest in classroom
computers and technology, increase safety, maintain reduced class sizes, and attract and retain
highly qualified staff; and

WHEREAS, if not re-approved, the Measure B parcel tax will expire June 30,
2018, leaving critical educational programs at risk after the coming school year; and

WHEREAS, Section 4 of Article XIII A and Section 2(d) of Article XIII C of the
California Constitution authorize a school district, by a two-thirds vote of the qualified electors,
to impose special taxes other than ad valorem taxes on real property, and Government Code
Section 50079 authorizes a school district to impose qualified special taxes meeting certain
requirements upon approval of two-thirds of the electorate voting on the proposition; and

WHEREAS, all funds raised in these qualified special taxes are spent for the
benefit of students residing in our local district; and

WHEREAS, Section 1000 of the California Elections Code authorizes the District
to conduct such an election only on an established election date; and

WHEREAS, June 5, 2018 is an established election date; and
WHEREAS, this Board of Trustees has held a public hearing after due notice
regarding the parcel tax proposed by this Resolution, as required by Government Code Section
50077;and

WHEREAS, the District is located entirely within the County of San Mateo (the
“County”), and the San Mateo County Superintendent of Schools has jurisdiction over the
District; and

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Trustees of the
Ravenswood City School District as follows:

4126-8935-1953 I

1.	Recitals. This Board of Trustees hereby finds and determines that the
foregoing recitals are true and correct.

2.	Order of Election; Specifications of Ballot Measure. This resolution shall
stand as the order to the San Mateo County Superintendent of Schools to call an election within
the boundaries of the District on June 5, 2018, for the purpose of proposing to the electors of the
District the measure contained in Exhibit A hereto. The authority for the specifications of this
election order is contained in Sections 5304 and 5322 of the California Education Code and
Sections 50075-77 and 50079 of the California Government Code.

This Board of Trustees hereby requests the Registrar of Voters of the County of
San Mateo (the “Registrar of Voters") to submit to the voters of the District at said election the
measure as it appears in Exhibit A.

3.	Filina of Order of Election. The Secretary of this Board of Trustees is ordered
to cause certified copies of this resolution and order to be delivered not later than Wednesday,
March 7, 2018, to the San Mateo County Superintendent of Schools, and not later than Friday,
March 9, 2018 to the Registrar of Voters and the Clerk of the Board of Supervisors of the
County.

4.	Formal Notice. The San Mateo County Superintendent of Schools is hereby
requested to prepare and execute a Formal Notice of Parcel Tax Election and consolidation order
in substantially the form attached hereto as Exhibit B (the “Formal Notice"), and to call the
election by causing the Formal Notice to be posted in every schoolhouse in the District and at
three public places in the District, in accordance with Section 5362 of the Education Code, no
later than Wednesday, March 7, 2018, or to otherwise cause the notice to be published as
permitted by law. The Secretary of this Board of Trustees, on behalf of and as may be requested
by the County Superintendent of Schools, is authorized to cause all notices required by law in
connection herewith to be published and posted, as the case may be.

5.	Conduct of Election, (a) Request to Registrar of Voters. Pursuant to Section
\/ 5303 of the Education Code, the Registrar of Voters is required to, and is hereby requested to,

take all steps to hold the election in accordance with law and these specifications.

(b)	Ballot and Voter Pamphlet. The Registrar of Voters is requested to cause the
exact wording of the Abbreviation of the Measure contained in Exhibit A-l to appear on the
baUot, and_to print the Eulf Text of the Measure contained in Exhibit AMI in the voter
information pamphlet to be distributed to voters pursuant to the Elections Code. The full text of
the measure is all that text in Appendix A hereto between the indicators "BEGINNING OF

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE-................»»» and “««<— .....................END OF FULL TEXT

OF MEASURE"

(c)	Consolidation. The San Mateo County Superintendent of Schools and the
Board of Supervisors of the County are requested to order consolidation of the election with such
other elections as may be held on the same day in the same territory or in territory that is in part
the same, pursuant to Education Code Section 5342 and Section 10400 and following of the
Elections Code.

(d)	Canvass of Results. The Board of Supervisors of the County is authorized to
canvass the returns of the election pursuant to Section 10411 of the Elections Code.

(e)	Required Vote. The proposition shall become effective upon approval of two-
thirds of those voting thereon.

(f)	Election Costs. T his Board of Trustees shall pay all costs of the election
approved by the Board of Supervisors of the County, pursuant to Education Code Section 5421.

6.	Appropriations Limit. This Board of Trustees shall provide in each year
(pursuant to Section 7902.1 of the Government Code or any successor provision of law) for any
increase in the District’s appropriations limit as shall be necessary to ensure that proceeds of the
proposed tax may be spent for the authorized purposes.

7.	Ballot Argument. The President of this Board of Trustees, or any member or
members of this Board as the President shall designate, is hereby authorized, but not directed, to
prepare and file with the Registrar of Voters a ballot argument in favor of the proposition
contained in Exhibit A-Il hereof, within the time established by the Registrar of Voters, which
shall be considered the official ballot argument of this Board as sponsor of the proposition.

8.	Effective Date. This resolution shall take effect from and after its adoption by
a two-thirds vote of all of the members of this Board.

PASSED AND ADOPTED this 22nd day of February, 2018 by the following vote:

AYES: (5) Trustees Ana Maria Pulido, Sharifa Wilson, Marielena Gaona Mendoza,
Marcelino Lopez and Charlie M. Knight

NOES: (o)

ABSTAIN: (0)

ABSENT: (0)

President of the Board of Trustees
of the Ravenswood City School District

ATTEST:

the Ravenswood City School District

4126-8935-1953.1

EXHIBIT A
MEASURE TEXT

I. ABBREVIATION OF THE MEASURE

[This summarizes, in 75 words or less,
the full text of the proposition which appears below.]

"To improve local elementary and middle school students’ learning and achievement in
reading, writing, math and other educational programs; invest in classroom computers and /
technology; increase safety; maintain reduced class sizes; and attract and retain highly qualified
staff; shall the Ravenswood City School District renew an existing tax of $196 per parcel for 8 I
years, providing $1.2 million annually, with small annual adjustments, senior and legal
exemptions, all money staying local and requiring citizen oversight?”

[75 Words!

nil CniN™E OFFICE OF THE
IlLCU CHIEF ELECTIONS OFFICER
OF SAN MATEO COUNTY, CALIF.

MAR 012018

4126-8935-1953 I

r° (u n ^

Fll Fn,NTHEOFF,C£OFTHE

II. FULL TEXT OF THE MEASURE	MAR 01 20)8

BEGINNING OF FULL TEXT OF MEASURE---------------»»»

RAVENSWOOD CITY SCHOOL DISTRICT
Ravenswood City School District Funding for Local Schools Act of 2018

This Proposition may be known and referred to as the "Ravenswood City School

District Funding for Local Schools Act of 2018" (the “Act”) or as "Measure_[designation

to be assigned by County Registrar of Voters]

TERMS OF THE SPECIAL TAX
Terms and Purposes. Upon approval of two-thirds of those voting on this measure, the
District shall be authorized to extend the existing parcel tax (Ravenswood City School District
Funding for Local Schools Act of 2011) for eight (8) years until 2026. The net effect of this
measure would be to authorize the District to impose a total of $196 in taxes per parcel annually
each year between July 1, 2018, and June 30, 2026, subject to an annual adjustment for inflation
of not to exceed 3.0%.

The qualified special tax shall be known and referred to as the "Funding for Local
Schools fax of 2018." Proceeds of the Funding for Local Schools Tax of 2018 shall be
authorized to be used to improve students’ reading, writing, and math skills by recruiting and
retaining experienced, highly qualified staff; and by supporting supplemental educational
programs and services.

Senior Citizen Exemption. In order to provide tax relief to senior citizens in the
community, any parcel owned and occupied by a person 65 years of age or older shall be exempt
from the Funding for Local Schools Tax of 2018 upon proper application to the District. The
exemption shall be available pursuant to procedures to be prescribed by the District's Board of
Trustees or otherwise as required by law or by the San Mateo County Tax Collector.

Additional Legal Exemptions. An exemption from the Funding for Local Schools Tax of
2018 shall be made for persons receiving Supplemental Security Income for a disability,
regardless of age upon proper application to the District. An exemption from the Funding for
Local Schools Tax of 2018 shall be made for persons receiving Social Security Disability
Insurance benefits, regardless of age, whose yearly income does not exceed 250 percent of the
2012 federal poverty guidelines issued by the United States Department of Health and Human
Services. These exemptions shall be available pursuant to procedures to be prescribed by the
District's Board of Trustees or otherwise as required by law or by the San Mateo County Tax
Collector.

ACCOUNTABILITY PROVISIONS
Annual Audit. Upon the levy and collection of the Funding for Local Schools Tax of
2018, the Board of Trustees shall cause an account to be established for deposit of the proceeds.

For so long as any proceeds of the Funding for Local Schools Tax of 2018 shall remain
unexpended, the Superintendent or chief financial officer of the District shall cause a report to be
filed with the Board of Trustees no later than December 31 of each year, commencing December
31, 2018, stating (1) the amount of Funding for Local Schools Tax of 2018 received and
expended in such year, and (2) the status of any projects or description of any programs funding
from proceeds of the tax. The report may relate to the calendar year, fiscal year, or other
appropriate annual period, as the Superintendent shall determine and may be incorporated into or
filed with the annual budget, audit, or other appropriate routine report to the Board of Trustees.

Specific Purposes. All of the purposes named in the measure shall constitute the specific
purposes of the Funding for Local Schools Tax of 2018, and proceeds of the tax shall be applied
only for such purposes.

Appropriations Limit. The Board of Trustees shall provide in each year (pursuant to
Section 7902.1 of the Government Code or any successor provision of law) for any increase in
the District's appropriations limit as shall be necessary to ensure that proceeds of the funding of
Local Schools Tax of 2011, and of all qualified special taxes levied by the District, may be spent
for the authorized purposes and an election shall be conducted by the District for such purpose
only if required by the general laws of the State applicable to school district qualified special
taxes. This provision shall be deemed to be declaratory of existing procedures governing District
expenditures.

LEVY AND COLLECTION

The Funding for Local Schools Tax of 2018 shall be collected by the San Mateo County
Treasurer-Tax Collector at the same time and in the same manner and shall be subject to the
same penalties as ad valorem property taxes collected by the Treasurer-Tax Collector. Unpaid
taxes shall bear interest at the same rate as the rate for unpaid ad valorem property taxes until
paid. The collection of the Funding for Local Schools Tax of 2018 shall not decrease the funds
available from other sources of the District in any period from the effective date hereof.

“Parcel of taxable real property” shall be defined as any unit of real property in the
District, which receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem property taxes from the San Mateo
County Treasurer-Tax Collector's Office. All property, which is otherwise exempt from or on
which are levied no ad valorem property taxes in any year, shall also be exempt from the
Funding for Local Schools Tax in such year. Parcels owned and occupied by persons aged 65
years or older may be exempt from the funding of Local Schools Tax of 2011 as described above
by request.

The District shall annually provide a list of parcels, which the District has approved, for a
senior and certain other legal exemptions from the Funding for Local Schools Tax of 2018 as
described above to the San Mateo County tax collection officials. The San Mateo County
Assessor's determination of exemption or relief for any reason of any parcel from taxation, other
than through such exemptions, shall be final and binding for the purposes of the Funding for
Local Schools Tax of 2018. Taxpayers wishing to challenge the County Assessor's determination
must do so under the procedures for correcting a misclassification of property pursuant to
Section 4876.5 of the California Revenue and Taxation Code or other applicable procedures.
Taxpayers seeking a refund of the Funding for Local Schools Tax of 2018 paid shall follow the
procedures applicable to property tax refunds pursuant to the California Revenue and Taxation
Code.

SEVERABILITY

The Board of Trustees hereby declares and the voters by approving this measure concur
that every section, paragraph, sentence, and clause of this measure has independent value and the
Board of Trustees and the voters would have adopted each provision hereof regardless of every
other provision hereof. Upon approval of this measure by the voters, should any part be found by
a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, all remaining parts hereof shall
remain in full force and effect to the fullest extent allowed by law.

««<----------END of full text of measure

4126-8935-1953.1

EXHIBIT B
FORM OF

FORMAL NOTICE OF EDUCATION PARCEL TAX ELECTION

NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN to the qualified electors of the Ravenswood City
School District of San Mateo County, California, that in accordance with the provisions of the
Education Code, the Elections Code, and the Government Code of the State of California, an
election will be held on June 5, 2018, for the purpose of submitting to the qualified electors of
the District the proposition summarized as follows:

To improve local elementary and middle school students' learning and achievement in
reading, writing, math and other educational programs; invest in classroom computers and
technology; increase safety; maintain reduced class sizes; and attract and retain highly qualified
staff; shall the Ravenswood City School District renew an existing tax of $196 per parcel for 8
years, providing $1.2 million annually, with small annual adjustments, senior and legal
exemptions, all money staying local and requiring citizen oversight?

By execution of this formal Notice of Election the County Superintendent of
Schools of San Mateo County orders consolidation of the election with such other elections as
may be held on the same day in the same territory or in territory that is in part the same.

The County Superintendent of Schools of San Mateo County, by this Notice of
Election, has called the election pursuant to a Resolution and Order of the Board of Trustees of
the Ravenswood City School District adopted February 22, 2018 in accordance with the
provisions of Education Code Sections 5302, 5325 and 5361.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this day,
Ko^rM I , 2018.

County Superintendent ot Schools
San Mateo County, California
SECRETARY'S CERTIFICATE

I, Dr. Gloria M. Hemandez-Goff, Secretary of the Board of Trustees of the
Ravenswood City School District, County of San Mateo, California, do hereby certify as follows:

The attached is a full, true and correct copy of a resolution duly adopted at a
regular meeting of the Board of Trustees of said District duly and regularly held at the regular
meeting place thereof on February 22, 2018, and entered in the minutes thereof, of which
meeting all of the members of said Board of Trustees had due notice and at which a quorum
thereof was present; and at said meeting said resolution was adopted by the following vote:

AYES: (5) Trustees Ana Maria Pulido, Sharifa Wilson, Marielena
Gaona Mendoza, Marcelino Lopez and Charlie M. Knight

NOES: (0)

4126-8935-1953.1

ABSTAIN: (0)

An agenda of said meeting was posted at least 72 hours before said meeting at
2120 Euclid Avenue, East Palo Alto, California 94303, a location freely accessible to members
of the public, and a brief description of said resolution appeared on said agenda. A copy of said
agenda is attached hereto.

1 have carefully compared the same with the original minutes of said meeting on
file and of record at the District Office. Said resolution has not been amended, modified or
rescinded since the date of its adoption, and the same is now in full force and effect.

WITNESS my hand this 22nd day of February, 2018.

Secretary of the Board of Trustees'
Ravenswood City School District