FULL TEXT OF MEASURE G

ORDINANCE NO. 4402
ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 5.20 OF THE MENDOCINO
COUNTY CODE - TAX IMPOSED ON TRANSIENTS

The Board of Supervisors of the County of Mendocino ordains as
follows:

Section 5.20.020 of the Mendocino County Code is amended to read
as follows:

“Sec. 5.20.020 - Definitions.

Except where the context otherwise requires, the definitions given in
this section govern the construction of this Chapter:

(A)	“Person” means any individual, firm, partnership, joint venture,
association, social club, fraternal organization, joint stock
company, corporation, estate, trust, business trust, receiver,
trustee, syndicate or any other group or combination acting as a
unit.

(B)	“Lodging establishment” means any shelter, room or rooms, or
other living space or structure, or any portion thereof which is
occupied or intended or designed for occupancy by transients for
dwelling, lodging or sleeping purposes and includes, but is not
limited to, any hotel, inn, tourist home or house, motel, studio
hotel, cottage, cabin, bachelor hotel, lodging houses, rooming
house, house, room, apartment house, dormitory, public or
private club, mobile home or house trailer at a fixed location,
private campground, recreational vehicle (RV) park, tent site
(with or without a tent; including “glamping” style
accommodation), RV site, or any other similar structure or
portion thereof.

(C)	“Occupancy” means the use or possession or the right to the use
or possession of any room or rooms or portion thereof in any
lodging establishment for dwelling or sleeping purposes.

(D)	“Transient” means any person who exercises occupancy or is
entitled to occupancy by reason of concession, permit, right of
access, license or other agreement for a period of thirty (30)
consecutive calendar days or less, counting portions of calendar
days as full days. Any such person so occupying space in a
lodging establishment shall be deemed to be a transient until a
period of thirty (30) days has expired, unless there is an
agreement in writing between the operator and the occupant
providing for a longer period of occupancy. In determining
whether a person is a transient, uninterrupted periods of time
extending both prior and subsequent to the effective date of this
Article [May, 1965] may be considered.

(E)	“Rent” means the consideration charged, whether or not
received, for the occupancy of space in a lodging establishment
valued in money, whether to be received in money, goods, labor
or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits and property
and services of any kind or nature, without any deduction
therefrom whatsoever.

(F)	“Operator” means the person who is proprietor of the lodging
establishment, whether in the capacity of owner, lessee,
sublessee, mortgagee in possession, licensee, or any other
capacity, including but not limited to use of a managing agent.

(G)	“Tax Administrator” means the Treasurer-Tax Collector of the
County of Mendocino.

Sec. 5.20.030 - Tax Imposed.

For the privilege of occupancy in any lodging establishment, each
transient is subject to and shall pay a tax in the amount of eight (8%)
of the rent charged by the operator. Said tax constitutes a debt owed
by the transient to the County, which is extinguished only by payment
to the operator or to the County. The transient shall pay tax to the
operator of the lodging establishment at the time the rent is paid. If
rent is paid in installments, a proportionate share of the tax shall be
paid with each installment. The unpaid tax shall be due upon the
transient’s ceasing to occupy space in the lodging establishment.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE G - continued

If for any reason the tax due is not paid to the operator of the
lodging establishment, the Tax Administrator may require that such
tax shall be paid directly to the Tax Administrator.

Sec. 5.20.031 - Additional Two Percent Tax.

In addition to the eight percent (8%) occupancy tax authorized by
Section 5.20.030, this Section authorizes the reinstatement of an
additional two percent (2%) of the rent charged by an operator and
payable by a transient for the privilege of occupying any lodging
establishment.

(A)	This Section is adopted pursuant to authority contained in
Revenue and Taxation Code Section 7280. This Section was
approved by the voters of the County of Mendocino at the
election on March 4,1997.

(B)	The revenue raised by this tax shall be used to fund the
general governmental services and operations of the County of
Mendocino.

Sec. 5.20.050 - Operator’s Duties.

(A)	Each operator shall collect the tax imposed by this Chapter to
the same extent and at the same time as the rent is collected
from every transient. The amount of tax shall be separately
stated from the amount of the rent charged, and each transient
shall receive a receipt for payment from the operator. No
operator of a lodging establishment shall advertise or state in
any manner, whether directly or indirectly, that the tax or any
part thereof will be assumed or absorbed by the operator or
that it will not be added to the rent or that, if added, any part
will be refunded except in the manner hereinafter provided.

(B)	Where the operator performs his or her functions through a
managing agent of any type or character other than an
employee, the managing agent shall also be deemed an
operator for the purposes of this Chapter and shall have the
same duties and liabilities as his or her principal. Compliance
with the provisions of this Chapter by either the principal or the
managing agent shall, however, be considered to be
compliance by both.

(C)	Pursuant to Civil Code Section 2238, a proprietor performing
his or her functions under this Chapter by a managing agent is
responsible as principal for the negligence of his or her agent
in the transaction of the business of the agency.

(D)	If the rent is charged as part of a single comprehensive cost or
flat rate which includes reasonable charges for meals, food, or
other services, the operator shall separately describe for the
Tax Administrator or County Auditor-Controller the portion of
the charge or rate applicable to lodging to the same extent as
reported to the Board of Equalization of the State of California
for meals, food, or other services.

(E)	If the operator imposes upon the transient occupant any fee or
charge for use of facilities in conjunction with the lodging
establishment, which fee or charge is a mandatory fee or
charge additional to lodging, the Transient Occupancy Tax
shall be applicable to such mandatory fee or charge.

Sec. 5.20.060 - Registration; Certificate.

In order that the County will have an accurate record of parties
collecting Transient Occupancy Tax, each lodging establishment
operator will be required to register as hereinafter provided.

(A)	Each lodging establishment owned or operated by the same
owner or operator and located upon a separate parcel of
property described by its own assessor’s parcel number shall
require a separate Registration Certificate.

(B)	Prior to commencing business each operator, including each
managing agent, of any lodging establishment renting
occupancy to transients shall register such lodging

23G1

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE G - continued

establishment with the Tax Administrator and obtain from him or
her a Registration Certificate to be at all times posted in a
conspicuous place on the premises. The Registration Certificate
shall, among other things, state the following:

(1)	Name and address of the lodging establishment;

(2)	Name of the operator;

(3)	Name and address of owners;

(4)	Registration certificate number and date issued.

(C)	The Registration Certificate shall not be transferable, and shall
be returned to the Tax Administrator upon sale of property or
cessation of business along with the final remittance of
Transient Occupancy Taxes due.

(D)	The operator named on the face of the Registration Certificate
shall collect from transients the Transient Occupancy Tax and
shall remit such tax to the Tax Administrator. The certificate
does not authorize any person to conduct any unlawful
business or to conduct any lawful business in an unlawful
manner, nor to operate a lodging establishment without strictly
complying with all local applicable laws, including but not limited
to permit requirements from any board, commission,
department, or office in this County.

(E)	The owner of the lodging establishment shall report all changes
of operators or operations to the Tax Administrator immediately
including, but not limited to, any change in operations, mailing
address, number of rooms, or changes in ownership.

(F)	The Registration Certificate may be revoked by the Tax
Administrator upon failure to comply with any provision of this
Chapter. Revocation by the Tax Administrator may be appealed
to the Board of Supervisors as provided in Section 5.20.100. An
appeal of revocation as provided herein will stay the revocation
until the Board of Supervisors issues its decision.

(G)	Operation of a lodging establishment or lodging establishment
business subject to this Chapter without a valid Registration
Certificate shall be a misdemeanor and shall be punishable as
provided by Section 5.20.140. Each day of operation without a
valid Registration Certificate shall be deemed to be a separate
offense.

Sec. 5.20.070 - Reporting and Remitting.

(A)	Each operator shall, on or before the last day of the month
following the close of each calendar quarter or at the close of
any shorter reporting period which may be established by the
Tax Administrator, make a return to the Tax Administrator, on
forms provided by the Tax Administrator, of the total rents
charged and received and the amount of tax collected for
transient occupancies. Each operator shall describe in such
return the rents attributable to each lodging establishment under
the operator’s control, together with the name of the owner of
each lodging establishment, the address and location of each
lodging establishment for which rents are reported in the return.
Such return form to the Tax Administrator shall be executed by
the operator under penalty of perjury under the laws of the State
of California.

(B)	The failure to file such return shall be subject to a fine of Five
Hundred Dollars ($500).

(C)	Any advance deposit retained by the operator following
cancellation of any advance lodging establishment reservation,
which represents payment for keeping the room open for the
person making the reservation, as opposed to constituting an
administrative or a handling fee to recover the administrative
cost of processing the room reservation and subsequent
cancellation, shall be deemed to be a payment for room
occupancy within the contemplation of this Ordinance, and shall
be subject to the Transient Occupancy Tax.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE G - continued

(D)	At the time the return is filed the full amount of the tax collected
shall be remitted to the Tax Administrator. The Tax
Administrator may establish shorter reporting periods for any
certificate holder if the Tax Administrator deems it necessary in
order to insure collection of the tax and the Tax Administrator
may require further information in the return. Returns and
payments are due immediately upon cessation of business for
any reason. All taxes collected by operators pursuant to this
Chapter shall be held in trust for the account of the County until
payment thereof is made to the Tax Administrator.

Sec. 5.20.080 - Penalties, Interest and Cash Security.

(A)	Original Delinquency. Any operator who fails to remit any tax
imposed by this Chapter within the time required shall pay a
penalty of ten percent (10%) of the amount of the tax in addition
to the amount of the tax.

(B)	Continued Delinquency. Any operator who fails to remit any
delinquent remittance on or before a period of thirty (30) days
following the date on which the remittance first became
delinquent shall pay a second delinquency penalty of ten
percent (10%) of the amount of tax in addition to the amount of
the tax and the ten percent (10%) penalty first imposed.

(C)	Fraud. If the Tax Administrator determines that the nonpayment
of any remittance due under this Chapter is due to fraud, a
penalty of twenty-five percent (25%) of the amount of the tax
shall be added thereto in addition to the penalties stated in
Subparagraphs (A) and (B) of this Section.

(D)	Interest. In addition to the penalties imposed, any operator who
fails to remit any tax imposed by this Chapter shall pay interest
at the rate of one and one-half percent (1.5%) per month on the
amount of the tax, exclusive of penalties, from the date on
which the remittance first became delinquent until paid.

(E)	Penalties Merged with Tax. Every penalty imposed and such
interest as accrues under the provisions of this Section shall
become a part of the tax herein required to be paid.

(F)	Security Deposit for Noncompliance or Delinquency. The

Tax Administrator may require any operator of the lodging
establishment, including any managing agent of the lodging
establishment who has failed to comply with any provision of
this Chapter or who has filed two or more delinquent returns or
payments, in any twelve (12) month period, to deliver to said
Administrator a cash security equal to three (3) times the
anticipated tax for the highest reporting period as determined by
the Tax Administrator. A certificate of deposit may be
acceptable in place of a cash security upon the approval of the
Tax Administrator. Failure to post this cash security when
requested to do so shall be grounds for revocation of an
operator’s certificate of registration as provided in Section
5.20.060. The required security shall not be held longer than
forty-eight (48) months from any delinquency.

Sec. 5.20.085 - Audit.

(A)	The County Auditor-Controller may audit the books and records
of any operator to determine the adequacy of the Transient
Occupancy Taxes due.

(B)	All operators shall keep and make available to the Tax
Administrator and the County Auditor-Controller records
including but not limited to lodging establishment receipts, room
or lodging establishment registration records, sales tax returns,
daily maid reports, linen service invoices, and all records
described below in Section 5.20.110(A).

23G2

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE G - continued

Sec. 5.20.130 - Actions to Collect.

(A)	Any tax required to be paid by any transient under this Chapter
shall be deemed a debt owed by the transient to the County.
Any such tax collected by an operator which has not been paid
to the County shall be deemed a debt owed by the operator to
the County. Any person owing money to the County under this
Chapter shall be liable to an action brought in the name of the
County of Mendocino for the recovery of such amount. The
County shall be entitled to recover from anyone found liable for
the debt, any costs, including attorney’s fees, personnel costs,
or other expenses incurred by the County because of the failure
to timely remit tax proceeds to the County.

(B)	If judgment is obtained by the County, such judgment shall be
recorded and shall constitute a lien against the subject property
wherein the lodging establishment is located.

(C)	Whenever a debt owed by the operator to the County under this
Chapter has not been paid to the County and the operator’s
Registration Certificate has been revoked under this Chapter,
the County may obtain a court injunction against further
operation of the lodging establishment until the debt owed has
been paid.

PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Board of Supervisors of the
County of Mendocino, State of California, on this 27™ day of
February, 2018, by the following roll call vote:

AYES:	Supervisors	Brown, McCowen, Croskey, Gjerde,

and Hamburg

NOES:	None

ABSENT:	None

WHEREUPON, the Chair declared the Ordinance passed and
adopted and SO ORDERED.

s/Dan Hamburg

DAN HAMBURG, Chair

Mendocino County Board of Supervisors

ATTEST: CARMEL J. ANGELO
Clerk of the Board
s/Karla VanHagen
Deputy

APPROVED AS TO FORM:

Katharine L. Elliott, County Counsel
s/K L Elliott

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS
MEASURE G

A Measure to Amend Chapter 5.20 of the Mendocino County
Code for Collection of Transient Occupancy Tax on Short-Term
Visitor Accommodations in Private Campgrounds and
Recreational Vehicle Parks

This measure seeks voter approval to amend Mendocino County
Code Chapter 5.20 for the collection of transient occupancy tax.
This is a general tax and would apply only to the unincorporated
areas of the County.

This measure would clarify and expand the definition of “hotel” in
Chapter 5.20 (to be renamed “lodging establishment”) and would
amend Chapter 5.20 to include short-term visitor accommodations
in private campgrounds and recreational vehicle parks. This
measure would not include campsites exempt from such taxes,
such as a campsite in a State park or any facility operated by a
local governmental entity, or the owner of a membership camping
contract in a camping site at a campground.

This measure is estimated to raise $1,000,000 annually.

This measure was placed on the ballot by the Board of Supervisors.

This measure must be adopted by a majority of the voters.

A “YES” vote will be a vote in favor of adoption of the proposed
amendments to the existing ordinance.

A “NO” vote will be a vote against the adoption of the proposed
amendments to the existing ordinance.

DATED: March 23, 2018	s/Katharine	L. Elliott

County Counsel

FISAL IMPACT STATEMENT BY
COUNTY AUDITOR-CONTROLLER -
MEASURE G COUNTY OF MENDOCINO

In 1963, local governments were granted the ability to tax the privilege
of occupying a room or living space in a hotel, motel, inn, tourist
home, or other lodging when rented for 30 days or less. The Transient
Occupancy Tax (commonly referred to as TOT) is collected by the
lodging operator in the unincorporated area of the County then
remitted to the County Treasurer for deposit as general revenue to the
County General Fund.

This measure would expand the definition of lodging establishments
to include short-term visitor accommodations in private campgrounds
and recreational vehicle parks. The current transient occupancy tax
rate of 10% generated $5.1 million in fiscal year 2016-2017 for the
County. If this measure is approved, the tax is estimated to generate
an additional $1.0 million annually. The total tax collected changes on
an annual basis as a result of increases or decreases in daily lodging
rates and lodging occupancy.

The revenue generated by transient occupancy tax is considered
general revenue for the County General Fund. This tax source is the
third largest discretionary General Fund tax source, following property
taxes and retail sales taxes. This revenue is expended on general
County government services and capital needs for public safety, law
and justice, legislative programs, administrative and other general
government services.

s/Lloyd B. Weer
Auditor-Controller,

County of Mendocino

23G3

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
MEASURE G

Vote “YES” on Measure G - level the playing field and raise
funds to support County services.

When travelers to Mendocino County rent a room in a hotel, motel,
inn, or other short term vacation rental, they also pay 10% of the cost
of the room as a “transient occupancy tax” or TOT. But there is a
loophole! Travelers who stay in private campgrounds benefit from
County services but pay nothing in return. It’s time to close the
loophole!

Vote “YES” on Measure G to close the loophole and apply the
same TOT rate to visitors who stay in private campgrounds that is
already paid by guests at other short term vacation rentals. All visitors
benefit from County services and all should share equally in the cost.

Every visitor to Mendocino County depends on local fire, law
enforcement, and emergency medical services. Every visitor drives
on County roads and many visit local parks. Every County resident
pays taxes to support these services. It’s only fair that visitors,
including those who stay at private campgrounds, also pay to
support local services.

Visitors to Mendocino County also pay 1% of the rental rate to raise
funds to promote Mendocino County. All visitor serving facilities,
including private campgrounds, benefit from the promotional effort,
but not everyone pays! It is time to correct this oversight and apply
the same TOT rate to guests at private campgrounds that is already
paid by guests at other short term vacation rentals.

When Mendocino County residents travel, we all pay TOT, usually at
a much higher rate. It is only fair that visitors to Mendocino County
who stay at private campgrounds pay the same low rate that other
visitors already pay.

Vote “YES” on Measure G to close the loophole, level the playing
field and support County services!

s/Dan Hamburg

Chair, Board of Supervisors

s/Dan Gjerde

Mendocino County Supervisor

s/Heather Gurewitz
Executive Director, EDFC

s/John Kuhry

Board Chair, Mendocino County Tourism Commission

s/Carre Brown
First District Supervisor

REBUTTAL TO
ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE G

•	Measure G will put Mendocino County at a significant
DISADVANTAGE when it comes to competing for tourist dollars
with counties that DO NOT impose a TOT on private
campgrounds. Does that sound like making the playing field more
equal?

•	Mendocino County residents DO NOT always pay a TOT at
campgrounds when they travel. Therefore, the statement that
“When Mendocino County residents travel, we all pay TOT...” is a
LIE.

•	Singling out private campground visitors as not paying for
Mendocino County services is DISCRIMINATORY. Many people
visit Mendocino County for the day and use its roads, yet they pay
no TOT for local services. Guests and family members that stay at
the homes of Mendocino County residents use the same Mendocino
County roads and services, yet they pay no TOT.

•	Campground visitors pay their fair share for Mendocino County
services by paying local sales tax when spending money at local
businesses.

•	Comparing private campground visitors to hotel guests is absurd.
Private campground visitors bring their own shelter, bed, and
accommodations, unlike guests at hotels and other vacation rentals.
They shouldn’t be charged an extra 10% for setting up camp on
DIRT.

•	Out-of-touch elected officials are trying to convince you that 10%
is a low rate. For the majority of campground visitors a 10%
increase per night is significant.

Don’t buy into their false narrative by taxing the poor! Vote “No”
on Measure G.

s/Melissa L. Schnetgoecke
General Manager

s/Anne Marie Tobias
Co-worker

s/Phyllis Arreguin
Park Manager

s/Joseph Forrington
Owner, Sea Glass Museum

23G4

ARGUMENT AGAINST
MEASURE G

Let’s be honest here. What they really mean to ask you is this:

Shall we burden working-class families and price-conscious
recreation seekers with an extra 10% tax for the “privilege” of
pitching a tent or parking a recreational vehicle on a plot of privately-
owned land?

If this measure passes, Mendocino County has tentative plans to
amend the BID assessment ordinance, which would likely result in
another 1% increase in a customer’s bill.

An 11% increase is substantial. Plus, when you factor in the
financial strain of the California gas tax increase, taking a trip to
Mendocino County and pitching a tent becomes unreasonably
expensive.

Most people who stay at campgrounds are not wealthy - they are
poor, they are working -class families, they are seniors on fixed
incomes. Every cent counts to them. They have to scrimp and save
for their vacation, and many cannot afford to stay at a motel or hotel.

Let’s be clear - the estimated $1 million in tax revenue will not be
paid by campground operators. Instead, it will come directly out of
the pockets of working-class families and poor people.

Some will vacation in other counties where this tax does not exist.
Others will remain, but they will have considerably tighter budgets
with less money to spend locally. Tourist dollars are the lifeblood of
many local businesses. When business dries up, so do jobs.

The method used to estimate the revenue from this tax is highly
suspect. Campgrounds were never consulted. The resulting
decrease in campground visitors and the reduction in tourist dollars
to local businesses were not adequately considered.

This tax will (1) disproportionately impact lower income people and
(2) negatively impact our local economy.

Make Mendocino County affordable for everybody, not just the
wealthy.

Vote “No” on Measure G.

s/Melissa L. Schnetgoecke

General Manager Caspar Beach R.V. Park

s/Anne Marie Tobias
IT Engineer

s/Phyllis Arreguin
Manager, Woodside RV Park

s/Joseph Forrington
Owner, Sea Glass Museum

REBUTTAL TO THE
ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE G

Please join us and vote “YES” on Measure G.

Measure G only applies to short term visitors who rent space at
commercial campgrounds and RV parks. It will not apply to
permanent residents of mobile homes and RV parks or to someone
who camps on a friend’s property.

Most of this tax will be paid by RV owners who can easily afford a
few dollars to help pay for local services.

Will tourists go elsewhere? Not likely. Visitors to campgrounds in
Sonoma County already pay 12%.

Every visitor to Mendocino County depends on our emergency first
responders and puts wear and tear on our roads but not everyone
pays. Frequently, when our local firefighters and EMTs respond to
vehicle collisions and cliff rescues, they are giving aid to tourists.

Measure G levels the playing field. Tourists staying in motels and
inns already pay the tax. When Mendocino County residents stay in
a commercial campground or RV park in most other Northern
California counties, we already pay the tax to that county. Why
should tourists staying in commercial campgrounds and RV parks in
our County be exempt?

Vote “YES” on Measure G to restore tax fairness and raise
funds to support County services.

In recent years Mendocino County has increased funding to support
road repairs and fire and emergency medical services. Measure G
will help assure that Mendocino County has the money to continue
paying for critical services we all support.

Vote “YES” on Measure G to close an unfair loophole.

Vote “YES” on Measure G to raise funds to support critical
County services.

s/Jason Hurst
Lodging Owner

s/Andres Avila

Fire Chief, Anderson Valley

s/Sue Carberry

Chief, Long Valley Fire Protection District
s/Joseph E. Sutphin

At large Member of Fort Bragg Fire Authority Board and
Member of Mendocino County Association of Fire Districts

s/Kent Standley

Deputy Director - Maint - DOT

23G5