IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF
BALLOT MEASURE T

[Actual; Zbk

This ballot measure asks whether the people of the Town of Portola Valley desire to
temporarily lower the existing 5.5% Utility Users Tax (UUT) levied on telephone, gas,
water and electricity charges to 4.5% for a period of five years, from July 1. 2018
through June 30. 2023. On July 1. 2023. the tax will revert to 5.5%.

Effective July 1, 2020, this measure also gives authority to the Town Council to further/
reduce the UUT tax rate below 4.5% for a period not to exceed twelve months. Upon
expiration of the decrease period, the rate shall automatically revert back to 4.5%
without voter approval or Council action. The Town Council may adopt consecutive
temporary tax rate reductions.

lX

/V

10

>

-3

t iff

The UUT is a general tax. General taxes are not limited to a specific purpose and can (J-
be used for general City operating expenses and capital improvements, such as police,/3
fire, and maintenance of streets, parks, trails and drainage structures.

W

This ballot measure does not affect the Town’s second Utility Users Tax, a 2% Special
Utility Users Tax on telephone, gas, water and electricity charges. The proceeds of this
Special UUT are deposited into the Town’s restricted Open Space Fund.

IcX

lx

<b

32

A “Yes” vote means the voter is in favor of temporarily reducing the UUT to 4.5% for a
period of five years. A “No” vote means the voter is not in favor of reducing the UUT
and the rate will remain at 5.5%. In order for the tax to be reduced to 4.5%, the ballot
measure must be approved by more than 50% of the voters voting on the measure.

i&



C1I CP\ IN THE OFFICE OF THE
rlLCD CHIEF ELECTIONS OFFICER
OF SAN MATEO COUNTY, CAUF.



MAR 2 6 2018.

Cara E. Silver

Portola Valiev Town Attorney

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure T. If you desire a copy
of the Measure, please call the Town Clerk's Office at (650) 851-1700 (ex. 210), and

a copy will be mailed to you at no cost. A copy of the Measure may also be found
at http://www.portolavallev.net.

CII Cn'NTHEO^'CEOFTHE
rlLCU CHIEF ELECTIONS OFFICER
OF SAN MATEO COUNTY. CALIF.

MAR 0 6 2018

RESOLUTION NO. 2753 - 2018

By

RESOLUTION OF THE TOWN COUNCIL OF THE TOWN OF PORTOLA
VALLEY CALLING AND GIVING NOTICE OF THE HOLDING OF A
SPECIAL ELECTION TO BE HELD ON JUNE 5, 2018 FOR THE
PURPOSE OF SUBMITTING TO THE VOTERS OF THE TOWN OF
PORTOLA VALLEY A BALLOT MEASURE TEMPORARILY REDUCING
THE UTILITY USERS TAX RATE

:li

WHEREAS, in 2006, the voters of the Town of Portola Valley (“Town”) voted to
temporarily reduce the Utility Users Tax ("UUT”) levied on telephone, gas, water and
electricity, set forth in Chapter 3.32 of the Portola Valley Municipal Code, from 5.5
percent to 4.5 percent until June 30, 2010;

WHEREAS, in 2009, the voters of the Town voted to extend the temporary
reduction in the UUT for another four years until June 30, 2014;

WHEREAS, in 2013, the voters of the Town voted to further extend the
temporary reduction in the UUT for another four years until June 30, 2018;

WHEREAS, the fiscal state of the Town is heathy and it is anticipated to remain
that way for quite some time; and

WHEREAS, the Town desires to submit to the voters of the Town a ballot
measure to authorize the extension of the reduced 4.5 percent UUT on an additional
five year basis.

NOW, THEREFORE, the Town Council of the Town of Portola Valley does
RESOLVE as follows:

1.	A special election is hereby called and ordered to be held in the Town of Portola
Valley, State of California, on June 5, 2018, for the purpose of submitting to the qualified
voters of the Town the following ballot measure, sponsored by the Town Council
pursuant to Section 9222 of the Elections Code:

Temporary Tax Reduction: Shall the ordinance be adopted to amend Chapter 3.32 of the Portola Valley Municipal Code to reduce the general purpose Utility Users Tax levied on telephone, gas, water and electricity, from 5.5 percent to 4.5 percent, for a period of five years	YES
with authority given to the Town Council to further reduce the tax rate by resolution?	NO

2.	The full text of the ordinance to be adopted if the ballot measure set forth in
Section 2 above is approved by the voters is attached hereto as Exhibit A and shall
appear in the Voter Information Pamphlet.

3.	If, at the election, the ballot measure set forth in Section 1 above is approved by
the voters, Chapter 3.32 [Telephone, Gas, Water and Electricity Users’ Tax] of the
Portola VaNey Municipal Code shall be amended as set forth in the ordinance attached

\J hereto ^s Exhibit A.1 Pursuant to Election Code Section 9223, the Town Clerk of the
Town of PortoIiTValley shall cause the attached ordinance to be printed and shall make
a copy of the ordinance for any voter upon request.

4.	Pursuant to Elections Code Section 10400, the special election is hereby ordered
\/ consolidated with the statewide primary election conducted by the County of San

Mateo, which will be held on June 5, 2018. The elections hereby consolidated shall be
held in all respects as if there were only one election, and only one form of ballot shall
be used.

5.	Pursuant to Elections Code Section 10403, the Town Council hereby requests
V the Board of Supervisors of the County of San Mateo to make available the services of

the Registrar of Voters for the purpose of providing the usual services necessary to
conduct a consolidated municipal election, including the provision of elections supplies
and voter pamphlets. The Town Council recognizes that additional costs may be
incurred by the County by reason of these services and agrees to reimburse the County
for these costs.

6.	The election on this measure shall be held, voting precincts (if applicable)
designated, ballots printed, vote centers opened and closed, ballots counted and
returned, returns canvassed, the returns made, and a result ascertained and
determined, and all other proceedings conducted in connection with the election, under
the regulations of the Registrar of Voters of the County of San Mateo, in accordance
with the provisions of the law governing municipal elections in general law cities.

^	7. Ballots for said election shall be provided in the form and to the number provided

by law. On said ballots, in addition to any other printed matter which may be required
by law, two voting spaces shall be set off to the right of the ballot measure, in the
manner provided by law, one having the word “YES” printed before it and the other
having the word “NO" printed before it.

2

C:\Users\shanlon\Desktop\UUT Reso docUUT

8.	Direct arguments for and against the measure shall not exceed 300 words, shall
be filed with the Town Clerk no later than 5:00 p.m. on March 16, 2018, and shall
otherwise be in accordance with Section 9280 et. seq. of the Elections Code.

9.	The Town Attorney shall be directed to provide an impartial analysis not to
exceed 500 words of this measure in accordance with Elections Code Section 9280 and
to submit that to the Town Clerk for transmittal to the Registrar of Voters no later than
5:00 p.m. on March 26, 2018.

10.	Rebuttal arguments are permitted in accordance with Sections 9220 and 9285 of
the Elections Code. Rebuttal arguments shall not exceed 250 words and shall be filed
with the Town Clerk no later than 5:00 p.m. on March 26, 2018.

11.	The Town Clerk is authorized, instructed and directed to procure and furnish any
and all official ballots, notices, printed matter and all supplies and equipment that may
be necessary in order to properly and lawfully conduct the election.

12.	If, at the election^HTaajQJ^jrf the votes cast on the measure are in favor of the
measure, then the measure shall be deemed to have been accepted and approved by
the voters upon the date that the vote is declared by the Town Council and shall go into
effect 10 days after that date, pursuant to Section 9217 of the Elections Code.

PASSED AND ADOPTED this 28th day of February 2018.

'own Clerk

3

C:\Users\shanlon\Desktop\UUT Reso.docUUT

gxkb'tA

i ORDINANCE OF THE TOWN OF PORTOLA VALLEY AMENDING SECTION
3.32.075 [REDUCTION IN GENERAL TAX] OF CHAPTER 3.32 [TELEPHONE, GAS,
WATER AND ELECTRICITY USERS TAX] OF TITLE 3 [REVENUE AND FINANCE]
OF THE PORTOLA VALLEY MUNICIPAL CODE

WHEREAS, the citizens of the Town of Portola Valley wish to maintain the
reduced 4.5 percent Utility User Tax imposed on all users of telecommunications, gas,
water and electricity for an additional five years while providing the Town Council
authority to further reduce the tax rate in the Council’s discretion.

NOW, THEREFORE, the citizens of the Town of Portola Valley do ORDAIN as
follows:

1.	Amendment of Code. Section 3.32.075 [Reduction in General Tax] of
Chapter 3.32 [Telephone, Gas, Water and Electricity Users’ Tax] of Title 3 [Revenue
and Finance] of the Portola Valley Municipal Code is hereby amended to read as
follows:

3.32.075 Temporary Reduction in General Tax and Reinstatement of Tax
Without Election

A.	The five and one-half percent general taxes imposed on telephone users set forth in
Section 3.32.040, electricity users set forth in Section 3.32.050, gas users set forth in
Section 3.32.060, and water users set forth in Section 3.32.070 are each reduced to
four and one-half percent for a period of five years from July 1, 2018 through June 30,
2023. On July 1, 2023, the tax rate shall automatically revert back to five and one-half
percent without voter approval or Town Council action.

B.	Beginning on July 1,2020, the Town Council may in its absolute discretion, by
resolution and upon a majority vote of the Council, temporarily further reduce the tax
percentage in Sections 3.32.040 through 3.32.070 for a period not to exceed twelve (12)
months. The Tax Administrator shall implement the temporary tax reduction by giving
sixty (60) day written notice to all affected service suppliers as required by Public
Utilities Code Section 799. At the end of the temporary tax percentage reduction period,
the four and one-half percent (4.5 %) rate specified in Section 3.32.075 shall be
automatically reinstated without further notice or action by the City Council. No further
temporary reduction period authorized under this Section shall apply past June 30,

2023.

C.	Nothing herein shall prohibit the Town Council from adopting consecutive temporary
tax percentage reductions, as provided herein, or from rescinding previously approved
temporary tax percentage reductions.

l

D.	As stated in Government Code Section 9611, the enactment of a temporary tax
percentage reduction by the Town Council shall not constitute a repeal of one (1) or
more of the original provisions of this chapter. Upon the expiration of the time of the
temporary tax percentage reduction, the original provisions of this chapter shall have
the same force and effect as if the temporary tax percentage reduction had not been
enacted. Nothing herein is intended to constitute a decrease in a tax, or an increase in a
tax requiring election approval under California Constitution Article XIIIC; and to the
extent that any aspect of a temporary tax percentage reduction is found to invoke such
a requirement, the entire temporary tax percentage reduction shall be deemed null and
void ab initio, and there shall be no entitlement to such tax reduction for any service
user.

2.	Environmental Review. This ordinance is not a project for the purpose of
the California Environmental Quality Act.

3.	Effective Date; Posting. The effective date of this ordinance shall be 10
days after the date the Town Council declares the results of the election at which the
ballot measure regarding this ordinance is adopted by a majority vote of the electors