Impartial Analysis of Measure L

The Lassen Library District Board of Trustees is asking the voters to approve an increase in the special
tax currently being imposed on each habitable dwelling within the boundaries of the district. The
boundaries of the district are the same as the boundaries of the City of Susanville. So all habitable
dwellings in the City of Susanville are also in the Lassen Library District.

Since 1994, the Lassen Library District has relied on a special tax of $28.00 per year for each habitable
dwelling within the Library District as its main source of revenue to fund the operations of the district.
The Library District is asking the voters to approve an increase of this special tax from $28.00 to $52.00
per year.

The tax measure being proposed is a special tax which would require a supermajority vote to pass. This
means two-thirds of the votes cast on the measure, plus one, must vote in favor of the measure for it to
pass. Only persons registered to vote within the geographic boundaries of the Library District are eligible
to vote on this measure.

A "YES" vote on this measure would allow the tax increase of $28.00 to $52.00 for every habitable
dwelling within the Library District.

A "NO" vote on the measure would leave the special tax at $28.00 (as approved in 1994).

Robert M. Burns
Lassen County Counsel

NOTICE OF SPECIAL TAX ELECTION
LASSEN LIBRARY DISTRICT

1.	NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN to the qualified electors of the Lassen Library
District, County of Lassen, California (the “District”), in accordance with the provisions of
the Uniform District Election Law of the State of California, that a special tax election will
be held Tuesday, June 5, 2018, in the District.

2.	At the election the following proposition will be submitted to the qualified
electors of the District and voted upon:

MEASURE: Library District Special Tax Increase Measure_

Shall the library special tax of $28.00 per annum currently assessed on
each habitable dwelling unit within the incorporated limits of the City of
Susanville, be increased to $52.00 per annum, to go into effect for the
2018-19 tax year beginning July 1,2018, and to be used solely to operate
and maintain the District?

The proposition shall be designated on the ballot by a letter printed on the left margin of
the square containing the description of the measure as provided in the Elections Code
§13116 of the State of California.

3.	All of the purposes enumerated in the foregoing proposition shall be united
and voted upon as one single proposition. The special tax proposed to be assessed
shall not exceed $52.00 per annum.

4.	If two-thirds of the qualified electors voting on the proposition vote “YES”,
the proposition is approved and the approved tax increase will go into effect for the
2018-19 fiscal year beginning July 1,2018.

5.	The polls at the polling places will be open from 7:00 a.m. until 8:00 p.m.
on the day of the election. The boundaries of the voting precincts within the District, the
location of the polling places and the names of the officers selected to conduct the
election shall be determined by the Registrar of Voters of Lassen County.

The Board of Library Trustees of the Lassen Library District, by adoption of Resolution
18-1 (the “Resolution”), on December 14, 2017, and by execution of this Notice of
Special Tax Election, has ordered the election in accordance with the provisions of
Elections Code §10502. In all particulars not recited in the Notice, the election shall be
held and conducted as provided by law for holding special district elections.

Deborah L. Probst, Library Director
Lassen Library District

RESOLUTION No. 18-1

RESOLUTION ORDERING A SPECIAL TAX ELECTION, ESTABLISHING
SPECIFICATIONS OF THE ELECTION ORDER, REQUESTING COUNTY ELECTIONS
TO CONDUCT THE ELECTION, AND REQUESTIONG CONSOLIDATION OF THE

ELECTION

LASSEN LIBRARY DISTRICT

WHEREAS, the Lassen Library District (“District”) was established as the Susanville Library
District by a two-thirds majority vote of the electorate at the November 8,1994, general
election and given taxing authority for a $28 per annum parcel fee, subject to an
appropriation limit of $150,000.00 per annum, on each habitable dwelling within the city
limits of the City of Susanville, County of Lassen; and

WHEREAS, the rate of the approved parcel fee has not been adjusted since its inception, a
period of more than 23 years; and

WHEREAS, the approved appropriation limit has been adjusted annually pursuant to
Government Code §7910 and Article XII B of the California Constitution to $425,533 for
Fiscal Year 2017-18; and

WHEREAS, the financial viability of the District has been adversely affected by 1) inflation
on purchasing power and the Library’s corresponding inability to keep up with rising costs of
operating and maintaining library programs and facilities, and 2) mandated increases in the
minimum wage; and

WHEREAS, the future financial viability of the District depends on the taxpayers of the
District to provide an adequate level of financial support via a special tax that is
appropriately sized to meet the District’s needs; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Library Trustees (the “Board) of the District is generally authorized
to order elections within the District and to designate the specifications thereof, pursuant to
Uniform District Election Law, Elections Code §10500; and

WHEREAS, the Board is specifically authorized to order elections for the purpose of
submitting to the electors the question of whether the District shall impose and/or adjust a
special tax pursuant to Government Code §50075 and §53717; and

WHEREAS, the Board deems it necessary and advisable to submit a special tax proposition
to the electors that, if approved by two-thirds of the votes cast, would permit the District to
assess the tax on all habitable dwelling units within the District; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Elections Code §10002, the governing body of any city or district
may, by resolution, request the Board of Supervisors of the county to permit the county
elections official to render specified services to the city or district relating to the conduct of
an election; and

LASSEN LIBRARY DISTRICT
RESOLUTION No. 18-1
Page 2 of 3

WHEREAS, the resolution of the governing body of the city or district shall specify the
services requested; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Elections Code §10002, the city or district shall reimburse the
county in full for the services performed upon presentation of a bill to the city or district; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Elections Code §10400, whenever two or more elections including
board elections, of any legislative or congressional district, public district, city, county, or
other political subdivision are called to be held on the same day, in the same territory, or in
territory that is in part the same, they may be consolidated, either completely or partially,
upon the order of the government body or bodies or officer or officers calling the elections;
and

NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED AND ORDERED that the Board of Library Trustees
of the Lassen Library District hereby orders as follows:

1.	Election Order: Ballot Proposition. An election is ordered to be held in the Lassen
Library District, County of Lassen, on June 5, 2018, submitting to the voters of the
District the question of whether a special tax of fifty-two dollars ($52.00) per annum, to
go into effect for the 2018-19 tax year beginning January 1,2019, shall be assessed on
all habitable dwelling units located in the District, for the purpose of operating and
maintaining the library services and facilities of the District.

2.	Vote Required. Pursuant to Government Code §50075 and §50077 and Section 1 of
Article XIIIA of the Constitution of the State of California, the above proposition shall
become effective only upon the affirmative vote of two-thirds of those electors voting on
the measure.

3.	County Officials to Call and Conduct Election. The Board of Supervisors of Lassen
County is requested to permit the Lassen County Elections Department to render any
and all services necessary for conducting the election, for which services the District
agrees to reimburse the County. The Lassen County Registrar of Voters is requested to
take all steps to call and hold the election in accordance with law and these
specifications.

4.	Consolidation with Other Elections. The Board of Supervisors of Lassen County is
requested to order consolidation of the special tax election with such other election or
elections as may be held on the same day in the same territory that is in part the same.

5.	Formal Notice of Election. The Lassen Library District Library Director is hereby
requested to prepare a Formal Notice of Special Tax Election and file it with the Lassen
County Registrar of Voters.

6.	Delivery of Specifications of the Election Order. The President of the Board shall deliver
one certified copy of this resolution and order to the Lassen County Registrar of Voters,
and one certified copy hereof to the Board of Supervisors of Lassen County.

7.	General Authorization with Respect to the Special Tax Election. The members of the
Board, and the other officers of the District are hereby authorized and directed,
individually and collectively, to do any and all things and to execute, deliver, and perform
any and all agreements and documents that they deem necessary or advisable in order
to effectuate the purposes of this Resolution, including, without limitation, to prepare and

LASSEN LIBRARY DISTRICT
RESOLUTION No. 18-1
Page 3 of 3

submit for inclusion in the voter information pamphlet a tax statement and an argument
in favor of passage of the ballot proposition. All actions heretofore taken by the officers
and agents of the District that are in conformity with the purposes and intent of this
Resolution are hereby ratified, confirmed, and approved in all respects.

PASSED and ADOPTED on this 14th day of December 2017

by the following vote:

AYES: NWa,v «l.

NOES: &

ABSTAIN: &

ABSENT: &

Margie Wjeserve, President of the Board
Lassen Library District

ATTEST:

RiKi Dimond, Vice President of the Board
Lassen Library District

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE L

Lassen Library has served our community for decades providing a variety of services to the
community. The library annually serves over 43,000 patrons, circulates more than 40,000 items,
and provides over 17,700 hours of computer sessions. It offers a variety of programs for toddlers,
children and young adults, and provides a safe place for students to come after school. Lassen
Library is a state approved Testing Center for professional certifications and GED equivalency
exams and also proctors college exams. The Library also offers a grant supported adult literacy
program.

In 1994 the voters of Susanville approved an annual tax of $28.00 on each habitable dwelling
within the Susanville City limits to fund the library. This tax rate has NEVER been increased.
Currently the tax revenue provides $115,416 annually for library operational expenses which is
77% of the total annual operational revenues. Inflation has reduced the value of the tax revenues
so that it is only worth about $17.00. This has forced the library to forego routine facility
maintenance and has depleted the Library District's reserve funds. The Lassen Library District
is proposing a modest tax increase of $24.00 to support its needs for the future.

A “YES” vote would ensure the library's ability to meet its current and near-future financial
obligations, ensure continued library services, extend operational hours, provide for its needed
maintenance and operational needs and help replenish its depleted reserve fund. The Lassen
Library District is a special district that receives no designated funds from either the City of
Susanville or Lassen County. 100% of the revenue received from Measure L will be used to
provide services to the citizens of Susanville. A “YES” vote will continue to provide educational
opportunities to our community thereby helping to grow and strengthen our community.

Yes on Measure L!

Libraries 4 Us Committee