Local ballot measure: A

A Shasta Lake Fire Protection District
Special Tax Measure

Ballot question

To continue rapid emergency medical response, maintain fire
protection, and provide appropriate firefighter staffing in the
Shasta Lake Fire Protection District, shall a special property tax of
$100 per year for the first residential unit, $75 for each additional
residential unit, $25 per vacant parcel, and $0.07 per building
square foot for commercial, raising $515,750 annually, be
imposed by the District with a maximum annual adjustment of 4%,
remaining in effect until ended by voters?

What your vote means	
YES	NO
A "Yes" vote is to authorize	A "No" vote opposes the
the imposition of the special tax.	imposition of the special tax.
For and against Measure A	
FOR	

Ann Morningstar, Chairman, Shasta Lake Fire Protection District
Ryan Woods, Shasta Lake Professional Firefighter Association,

Teamsters #137
Bonnie Hurlhey, Concerned Citizen

AGAINST

23 • Statewide Direct Primary Election • Tuesday, June 5, 2018

Local ballot measure: A

Arguments and replies are the opinions of the authors. We print them exactly
as submitted, including errors.

Argument for Measure A

The Shasta Lake Fire Protection District provides fire
protection, prevention, rescue and emergency medical
response services to our community. It is a Special District,
completely independent from the City of Shasta Lake, and as
such the City is not responsible for funding the Fire District.

The District responds to over 1,500 calls per year, with that
number increasing every year, and expenses rising faster than
revenues. We need this funding measure to help fill in that gap
and to continue our current level of service.

The District serves the public 24 hours a day, 7 days a week,

365 days per year with only 10 paid staff and approximately 15
volunteers.

In 2015, the District had to lay off three firefighters and not fill
an empty training officer position due to budget constraints.
The National Fire Protection Association recommends that two
firefighters go into a burning building only when there are two
other firefighters outside ready to rescue them, but the District
did not have enough staff to send 4 firefighters per call.

In 2017, with a two year Federal grant, four positions were
funded again, however that grant expires after February 2019
and cannot be renewed. Four positions will not be filled again.
Volunteers cannot fill this gap as so many residents work out of
the area.

The District Board of Directors knows how important Measure
A is to our community, and unanimously urges you to vote
Yes.

Statewide Direct Primary Election • Tuesday, June 5, 2018 • 24

Local ballot measure: A

A YES vote will

Maintain rapid emergency response services
Save lives

Prevent loss of firefighter positions

This Fire Protection Services Measure includes strict
accountability provisions, including an annual financial audit.
All revenue from this ballot measure will be locally controlled.

Please vote Yes to help keep the Shasta Lake area safe

/s/ Ann Morningstar

Chairman, Shasta Lake Fire Protection District

/s/ Ryan Woods

Shasta Lake Professional Firefighter Association, Teamsters #137

/s/ Bonnie Hurlhey
Concerned Citizen

25 • Statewide Direct Primary Election • Tuesday, June 5, 2018

Local ballot measure: A

Impartial analysis of Measure A

This analysis of the special tax measure for the Shasta Lake Fire
Protection District ("District"), Measure A, is prepared and
submitted to the voters in accordance with Elections Code
section 9160, et seq. The electors who will be entitled to vote
on the measure are those qualified electors who reside within
the boundaries of the District. The measure would authorize the
District to levy a special parcel tax of real property within the
District for the purpose of fire protection including suppression
and prevention and for emergency response services within the
District.

The amount of the proposed special tax varies depending upon
the type of use of the property. The annual special tax rate is
$100.00 per residential dwelling unit for the first dwelling unit
per parcel plus $75.00 for each additional dwelling unit per
parcel; $25.00 for unimproved parcels such as vacant or parking
lots; and $0.07 per square foot of building area for commercial,
industrial, office, or recreational parcels, with a minimum of
$25.00 for these types of parcels. The amount of the proposed
special tax would be subject to an annual increase not to exceed
4% per year.

The proposed measure would also approve an increase in the
District’s appropriation limit in excess of the amount calculated
in accordance Article XII B of the California Constitution and
applicable statutory provisions in an amount equal to the
revenue derived from the proposed special tax, for the maximum
period of time permitted by law.

The proposed special tax would be approved if two-thirds of the
qualified electors voting on Measure A vote for approval. If
approved, the proposed special tax would become effective on
June 6, 2018, following certification of the election results and
would be levied against all taxable real property beginning with
the 2018-2019 fiscal year.

Statewide Direct Primary Election • Tuesday, June 5f 2018 • 26

Local ballot measure: A

Pursuant to Government Code sections 50075.1 and 50075.3,
proceeds from the special tax are subject to statutory
accountability measures which include, but are not limited to,
deposit to a separate account and an annual report by the local
agency detailing the amount of the funds collected and
expended.

A "yes" vote is to authorize the imposition of the special tax.

A "no" vote opposes the imposition of the special tax.

Rubin E. Cruse Jr
County Counsel

By:

/s/ James R. Ross

Assistant County Counsel

27 • Statewide Direct Primary Election • Tuesday, June 5, 2018

Local ballot measure: A

Full text of Measure A

The Shasta Lake Fire Protection District is responsible for fire
protection and emergency medical response services to the City of
Shasta Lake and a small unincorporated area outside the City limits,
within Shasta County.

In order to maintain prompt local fire protection and emergency
medical response services within the Shasta Lake Fire Protection
District, to provide appropriate firefighter staffing, and to prevent
the layoff of personnel once the current SAFER grant has expired,
so that firefighters are available to respond to all emergencies, to
keep property insurance rates manageable, and to adequately train
and equip firefighters, the District proposes to levy a special tax on
each taxable parcel of land within the District at the following
annual rates:

Property Type	Rate
Residential Dwelling Unit	$100.00 per dwelling unit for the first dwelling unit per parcel, plus $75.00 for each additional dwelling unit per parcel
Unimproved (vacant/parking lot)	$25.00 per parcel
Commercial, Industrial, Office, Recreational Property	$0.07 per square foot of building area with a $25 minimum

In order to help ensure that the revenues from the special tax grow
in line with the inflation adjusted cost of providing local fire
protection and emergency medical services, the tax rate may
increase in future years by a maximum annual adjustment of 4%
upon Board approval. Under no circumstances can an increase in
the rate charged be implemented without the change in the rate
charged for the special tax being included on the agenda of the

Statewide Direct Primary Election • Tuesday, June 5, 2018 • 28

Local ballot measure: A

Shasta Lake Fire Protection District Board of Directors' regular
meeting with an opportunity for public input and discussion.

Taxable parcels are those parcels that appear on the annual
secured Shasta County property tax roll and are billable for Shasta
Lake Fire Protection District services.

The purpose of this parcel tax will be to ensure continued local fire
suppression and protection as well as rapid emergency response
services for all residents, employees, and visitors in the District. The
revenues raised by this special tax will only be used to defray
operating expenses and capital improvement expenditures to
accomplish the foregoing purposes.

If the special tax is approved by two-thirds of the voters voting on
the measure, the District's appropriations limit will be increased by
the amount of this voter-approved tax.

The special tax revenues shall be deposited into a separate account
for exclusive use by the Shasta Lake Fire Protection District, in
accordance with Government Code Section 50075.1, and shall be
expended by the District according to a plan developed annually by
the District's staff and approved and adopted by the District's
Board of Directors.

The District will cause to be filed an annual report with its Board of
Directors, which report shall include the amount of special tax
revenues collected and expended, and which shall otherwise
comply with the accountability measures established in
Government Code Sections 50075.1 et seq.

Any property owner who is assessed a special tax as provided for
herein may appeal any determination by the District concerning the
nature of the use of the property or the calculation of the amount
of the tax by filing a notice of appeal with the District offices. Any
such appeal shall be filed by December 1 of the calendar year for
which the tax is levied. The appeal shall be filed on the form
provided by the District and shall contain a statement by the
property owner as to the nature and basis for the appeal in
accordance with the District's appeal procedure.

29 • Statewide Direct Primary Election • Tuesday, June 5, 2018