Local ballot measure: Q

Happy Valley Elementary School District

Ballot question

To support academic excellence, maintain quality
art and music programs, integrate modern
technology into classrooms, retain high quality
teachers and provide local funding that cannot be
taken by the State, shall Happy Valley Elementary
School District's measure be adopted authorizing
the levy of a parcel tax for six years at a rate of
$99 per year raising $61,000 annually with an
exemption for seniors and with annual citizens'
oversight?

Pregunta de Boleta

Con el proposito de apoyar la excelencia
academics, mantener programas de calidad de
arte y musica, incorporar tecnologfa moderna a las
aulas, retener maestros altamente calificados y
proveer financiamiento local que no pueda ser
tornado por el Estado, £debe adoptarse la
iniciativa de ley del Distrito Escolar Primario Happy
Valley para autorizar el gravamen de un impuesto
a la parcela durante seis anos a una tasa de $99
por ano para recaudar $61,000 anualmente con
una exencion para las personas de la tercera edad
y con supervision ciudadana anual?

What your vote means	
YES	NO
A "Yes" vote is to approve imposition of the special parcel tax.	A "No" vote is against imposition of the special parcel tax.

For and against Measure Q

FOR	AGAINST
George 1. Purnell  Trustee and Board President, Happy Valley Elementary School District	No argument against was filed.
Lela A. Willet  Real Estate Broker	
Pat O'Connell  Retired Fire Chief, Branciforte Fire Department Michael Watkins  Santa Cruz County School Superintendent	
John Leopold  Santa Cruz County Supervisor	

Local ballot measure: Q

Arguments and replies are the opinions of the authors. We print them exactly as submitted, including errors.

Argument for Measure Q

Happy Valley Elementary School is the most important asset in our community and should be our number one priority.
From higher achieving students, to increased property values, quality schools make a difference. However, because the
state continues to have inadequate funding for public education, we need to do more to protect and maintain the
quality of education. Funds raised by this local measure will be used to support instructional opportunities including
keeping our class sizes low, expanding music and art programs, and integration of classroom technology.

Our children need your YES vote on Measure Q! If successful, Measure Q will continue to provide a stable source of
local funds to offset the uncertainty of state funding. With the kind of support provided by the funds from Measure Q,
our students can become well rounded, contributing members of the community. Without it, their educational
experience will be compromised.

If passed. Measure Q will fund programs to improve Happy Valley Elementary School, including:

•	Maintaining small class sizes

•	Attracting and retaining quality teachers and staff, including instructional aides

•	Maintaining or expanding music, art and technology programs
Measure Q makes financial sense and protects taxpayers.

•	All funds must be spent locally and cannot be taken by the State.

•	Measure Q provides for an exemption for any parcel owned and occupied by a person 65 years of age or older.

•	Spending will be reviewed and annually audited by an independent citizens' oversight committee

Measure Q maintains academic programs, helps improve the education of local children, and maintains the quality of our
community. That's something we can all support. Please join us and vote Yes on Measure Q!

George I. Purnell

Trustee and Board President, Happy Valley Elementary School District

Lela A. Willet

Real Estate Broker

Pat O'Connell

Retired Fire Chief, Branciforte Fire Department
Michael Watkins

Santa Cruz County School Superintendent
John Leopold

Santa Cruz County Supervisor

No argument against Measure Q was filed.

Local ballot measure: Q

Impartial Analysis of Measure Q

Dana McRae, County Counsel

If this measure is approved by at least two-thirds of those voting on it, the Happy Valley Elementary School District ("the
School District") will be authorized to levy a special tax on real property. The special tax would be imposed for 6 years
beginning July 1, 2018, at the rate of $99 per year on each parcel within the School District.

The proceeds of the special tax, if approved, may be applied only to the purposes set out in the full text of Measure Q
which is printed in this pamphlet.

In accordance with state law, this measure includes accountability procedures. The School District would create a
separate account into which the proceeds of the special tax would be deposited. An annual written report would show
the amount of the special taxes which have been collected and expended, and the status of projects to be funded from
those proceeds. The School District would also appoint a Citizen's Oversight Committee to provide oversight as to the
expenditure of the special tax revenues.

The special parcel tax is to be collected in the same manner as other property taxes.

Property owners whose property is used solely for owner-occupied principal residential purposes and who are 65 years of
age or older, or who meet other criteria regardless of age, may obtain an exemption from this parcel tax by applying to the
School District.

The School District Board of Trustees proposes to reduce this special tax if it has the unintended effect of decreasing or
offsetting local, state or federal government funding sources that would otherwise be available to the School District.

This measure was placed on the ballot by the Board of Trustees of the Happy Valley Elementary School District.

A "yes" vote is to approve imposition of the special parcel tax.

A "no" vote is against imposition of the special parcel tax.

Full text of Measure Q

INTRODUCTION

"To support academic excellence, maintain quality art and music programs, integrate modern technology into classrooms,
retain high quality teachers and provide local funding that cannot be taken by the State, shall Happy Valley Elementary
School District's measure be adopted authorizing the levy of a parcel tax for six years at a rate of $99 per year raising
$61,000 annually with an exemption for seniors and with annual citizens' oversight?"

PURPOSES

To provide local revenue that cannot be taken by the State and to maintain high-quality public education in schools in the
Happy Valley Elementary School District (the "District"), the District proposes to levy and collect an education parcel tax
annually for six years as more fully described below under "EDUCATION PARCEL TAX AND PROCEDURES," and to
implement accountability measures in connection with the education parcel tax to ensure that funds are used only for the
following specific purposes:

•	Supporting quality art and music programs,

•	Providing for the integration of modern technology into classrooms, including devices and instructional equipment,

•	Attracting and retaining qualified teachers and staff, and

•	Supporting classroom instruction.

The Board of Trustees will not fund any program other than those listed above from the proceeds of the education parcel
tax.

EDUCATION PARCEL TAX AND PROCEDURES

Amount of Education Parcel Tax. Subject to two-thirds approval of the voters, the education parcel tax of $99 per parcel
(except exempt parcels, as described below) shall become effective for six years commencing with fiscal year 2018-19
and be collected by the Santa Cruz County Tax Collector at the same time as and along with, and shall be subject to the
same penalties as general ad valorem taxes collected by said tax collector.

Local ballot measure: Q

Definition of Parcel. A parcel shall be defined as any unit of land in the District that receives a separate tax bill from the
Santa Cruz County Tax Collector.

Exemptions. The following exemptions shall apply to the levy of the qualified special tax.

•	Otherwise Exempt Property. All property that would otherwise be exempt from property taxes shall also be
exempt from the education parcel tax.

•	Senior Citizen Exemption. An exemption shall be available to persons who are 65 years or older and own and occupy
as a principal residence a parcel (as defined above) and apply to the District for such exemption under procedures
established by the District or otherwise as required by law or by the Santa Cruz County Tax Collector.

Property owners seeking the senior citizen exemption must apply to the District for such exemption under procedures
established by the District or otherwise as required by law or by the Santa Cruz County Tax Collector. When a senior
exemption has been granted to a parcel, the senior will not have to re-submit an exemption application annually if the
facts are such that said parcel continues to qualify for the senior exemption described in this measure.

Exclusive Procedures. The procedures described herein with respect to the levy and collection of the education parcel tax
and exemptions, and any additional procedures established by the Board of Trustees of the District, shall be the exclusive
claims procedure for claimants seeking an exemption, refund, reduction, or re-computation of the qualified special tax.
Whether any particular claim is to be resolved by the District or by the County shall be determined by the District, in
coordination with the County as necessary. The District's Board of Trustees may adopt such additional or supplemental
procedures as it deems necessary or convenient for the administration of the education parcel tax.

ACCOUNTABILITY MEASURES

Government Code Accountability. In accordance with the requirements of California Government Code sections 50075.1
and 50075.3, the following accountability measures, among others, shall apply to the qualified special taxes levied in
accordance with this Measure:

•	the specific purposes of the education parcel tax shall be those purposes identified above under the heading
"PURPOSES,"

•	the proceeds of the education parcel tax shall be applied only to those specific purposes identified above under the
heading "PURPOSES,"

•	a separate, special account shall be created into which the proceeds of the education parcel tax must be deposited;
and

•	the District shall annually prepare and file or cause to be prepared and filed a written report with the Board of
Trustees of the District showing (1) the amount of funds collected and expended from the proceeds of the education
parcel tax and (2) the status of any projects, programs, or purposes identified above under the heading "PURPOSES."

Citizens' Oversight Committee. In addition to the accountability measures required by the Government Code, an
independent Citizens' Oversight Committee shall be appointed by the Board of Trustees to advise the Board on the
expenditures funded by the measure in order to ensure that said funds are spent for the purposes approved by the voters.
The Citizens' Oversight Committee will review the expenditures of these funds by the District and will report on an annual
basis to the Board and community on how these funds have been spent.

PROTECTION OF FUNDING

Current law forbids any decrease in State or Federal funding to the District because of the District's adoption of an
education parcel tax. However, if any State or Federal funds are reduced because of the adoption of this education parcel
tax, then the amount of the education parcel tax will be reduced annually as necessary in order to restore such State or
Federal funding.

SEVERABILITY

The Board of Trustees of the District hereby declares, and the voters by approving this measure concur, that every section,
paragraph, sentence and clause of this measure has independent value, and the Board of Trustees and the voters would
have adopted each provision hereof regardless of every other provision hereof. Upon approval of this measure by the
voters, should any part be found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, all remaining parts
hereof shall remain in full force and effect to the fullest extent allowed by law.