RESOLUTION NO. 19-2018

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF WEED
DECLARING THE RESULTS OF AND SUCH OTHER MATTERS
AS APPROVED BY LAW FOR THE STATEWIDE DISTRICT PRIMARY ELECTION

HELD ON JUNE 5, 2018

WFIEREAS, on the 5 day of June, 2018, a Statewide District Primary Election duly took place in the City
of Weed as required by law, and

WHEREAS, notice of said election was duly and regularly given in the time, form and manner as
provided by law; voting precincts were properly established; election officers were appointed and in all
respects the election was held and conducted and the votes were cast, received, and canvassed and the
returns, made and declared in the time, form and manner as required by the provisions of the Election
Code of the State of California for the holding of elections in general law cities; and

WHEREAS, the County Clerk of the County of Siskiyou canvassed the results of the election and has
certified the results to this City Council, the results are received, attached and made a part hereof as
Exhibit “A”; and

WHEREAS, the governing body of the City of Weed, duly convened at the Council Chambers of said
City on the 12th day of July 2018 at 5:30 p.m.; and

NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF WEED DOES RESOLVE AS
FOLLOWS:

Section 1: A. The total number of ballots cast including vote-by-mail and precinct ballots was 394.

Section 2: The Special Municipal election was held for the purpose of submitting the following measures
to the electors of the City as required by the laws relating to cities in the State of California:

Measure K

Measure imposing a gross receipts tax of up to ten percent (10%) of proceeds or fractional part thereof
and a cultivation tax of ten dollars ($10.00) per square foot of outdoor cultivation area, eighteen dollars
($18.00) per square foot of mixed-light cultivation area, and twenty-six dollars ($26.00) per square foot of

indoor cultivation area

Section 3. The number of votes cast for and against Measure K is as follows:

Yes: 278
No: 116

Section 4. The City Council does declare and determine that:

A.	The voters approved Measure K.

Section 5. The City Clerk shall enter in the records of the City Council a statement of the results of said
election, showing: (1) the whole number of votes cast in the city; (2) the measure voted upon; and (3) the
total number of votes given for and against the measure.

I HEREBY CERTIFY the foregoing resolution was introduced and adopted at a special meeting of the
City Council of the City	of Weed	held the	12th day	of July,	2018 by the	following vote, to wit:

AYES:	Council	Members	Green,	Greene,	Hall,	Palfini, and Tavalero

NOES:	None

ABSENT:	None

ATTEST:

Mayor, City of Weed

Deputy City Clerk, City of Weed

CERTIFICATION

I do hereby certify that the foregoing is a full, true, and correct copy of a resolution duly and regularly
adopted at a meeting of the City Council of the City of Weed held on the 12 day of July 2018.

ATTEST:

City Clerk, City of Weed

By: _________________________________

Sandra Duchi, Deputy City Clerk

City of Weed Resolution /Vo. / 9-20/8

Adopted July !2. 2018

Rage 2 of 3

Exhibit A

CITY OF WEED MEASURE K (Vote for 1)

Electionwide		
Countywide		
P3111 - WEED 1	195	589
P3112-WEED2	208	718
Countywide - Total	403	1,307
Cumulative		
Cumulative	0	0
Cumulative - Total	0	0
Electionwide - Total	403	1,307

Precinct

Electionwide

Countywide

P3111-WEED1

P3112-WEED2

Countywide -
Total
Cumulative

Cumulative

YES

137

141

278

0

NO

aj

o

>

54

62

116

191

203

394

0

0

0

Cumulative -

Total	0

Electionwide - Total	278

116

0

394

City of Weed Resolution No 19-2018

Adopted July 12, 2018

Page 3 of 3

ORDINANCE NO. 448 -2018

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF WEED IMPOSING A GENERAL
TAX ON CANNABIS BUSINESS
ACTIVITY IN THE CITY

THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF WEED DO ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1. Code Amendment. The City of Weed Municipal Code is hereby amended
to adopt chapter 5.10, entitled Cannabis Business Taxes to read in its entirety as follows:

Chapter 5.10

CANNABIS BUSINESS TAXES

Sections:	
5.10.010	Purpose.
5.10.020	Definitions.
5.10.030	Gross Receipts Tax.
5.10.040	Cultivation Tax.
5.10.045	Registration of Commercial Cannabis Businesses.
5.10.050	Payment Obligation.
5.10.060	City Council Authorization to Adjust Rates.
5.10.070	Tax Payment Does Not Authorize Activity.
5.10.080	Cannabis Tax Is Not a Sales Tax.
5.10.090	Amendments and Administration.
5.10.100	Returns and Remittances
5.10.110	Failure to Pay Timely.
5.10.120	Refunds.
5.10.125	Enforcement.
5.10.130	Consistency with Business Tax Rules.
5.10.135	Successor And Assignee Responsibility.
5.10.010	Purpose.

The purpose of this ordinance is to impose a general tax of up to ten percent (10%) of
gross receipts on any cannabis business conducted in the City of Weed and a cannabis
cultivation tax of up to $10 to $26 per square foot of canopy whether or not a taxed
cannabis business has a permit under chapter 5.04 of this code.

5.10.020 Definitions.

For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless the context
demonstrates another meaning was intended:

A.	"Business tax" or "commercial cannabis business tax" means the tax due
pursuant to this chapter for engaging in lawful commercial cannabis business in
the city.

B.	"Cannabis" means all parts of the plant Cannabis sativa linnaeus, Cannabis indica,
or Cannabis ruderalis, whether growing or not; the seeds thereof; the resin, whether
crude or purified, extracted from any part of the plant; and every compound,
manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of the plant, its seeds, or resin and

as defined in Business and Professions Code 19300.5(f). For purposes of this section,
the terms "cannabis" and "marijuana" have the same meaning.

C.	"Canopy" means the designated area(s) at a licensed premises that will contain
mature plants at any time. If mature plants are cultivated using a shelving system, the
surface area of each level shall be included when calculating canopy area. Canopy area
shall be expressed in square feet and measured using clearly identifiable boundaries of
all areas that will contain mature plants at any time, including the entire area with those
boundaries. Canopy may be noncontiguous, but each noncontiguous area shall be
defined by an identifiable boundary such as an interior wall or by 10 feet or more feet of
open space.

D.	"City Manager" is the officer defined by section 2.12.010 of this Code and any other
office, employee or agent of the City to whom he or she delegates responsibilities under
this chapter.

E.	"Commercial cannabis business" means any commercial business activity
relating to cannabis, including but not limited to cultivating, manufacturing,
processing, storing, laboratory testing, labeling, packaging, transporting,
distributing, delivering, or sale of cannabis, medical cannabis or a cannabis or
medical cannabis product.

F.	"Commercial cannabis cultivation" means the commercial planting, growing,
harvesting, drying, processing, or storage of one or more cannabis plants or any
part thereof.

G.	"Commercial cannabis manufacturing" means the commercial production,
preparation, propagation, or compounding of manufactured cannabis or
cannabis products, directly or indirectly.

H.	"Cultivation area" means the total aggregate area(s) of cannabis cultivation on
one or more parcels in the City by a cannabis business as measured around the
outermost perimeter of each separate and discrete area of cannabis cultivation at
the dripline of the canopy expected at maturity and includes, but is not limited
to, space between plants within a cultivation area, the exterior dimensions of
garden beds, garden plots, hoop houses, green houses, and each room or area
where cannabis plants are grown, as determined by the city manager.

I.	"Cultivator" means any person engaged in cultivation.

J.	"Gross receipts" means the total amount actually received or receivable from all
cannabis sales; the total amount or compensation actually received or receivable
for the performance of any act or service, of whatever nature it may be, for which

a charge is made or credit is allowed, whether or not such act or service is done
as a part of or in connection with the sale of materials, goods, wares, or
merchandise; discounts, rents, royalties, fees, commissions, dividends, and gains
realized. Included in "gross receipts" shall be all receipts, cash, credits, and
property of any kind or nature, without any deduction therefrom on account of
the cost of the property sold, the cost of the material used, labor or service costs,
interest paid or payable, or losses or other expenses whatsoever.

K.	"Manufacturing area" means the entire premises utilized for production,
preparation, propagation, storage or compounding of manufactured cannabis or

City of Weed Ordinance No. 448-2018
11

Adopted July 12, 2018

Page 2 of

cannabis products, directly or indirectly, not deducting for unutilized portions of
the premises.

L.	"Mixed-light cultivation" means using a combination of natural and
supplemental artificial lighting at a maximum threshold in a permanent facility
in compliance with the state building code as determined by the state licensing
authority.

M.	"Nursery" means a person, facility or activity that transfers for any form of
consideration cannabis clones, immature plants, and/or seeds for planting,
propagation, and/or cultivation of cannabis.

5.10.030 Gross Receipts Tax.

A.	There is hereby imposed on every commercial cannabis business in the City an
annual cannabis industry tax at a rate established from time to time by resolution
of the City Council that shall not exceed ten percent (10%) of annual gross
receipts. The tax imposed under this section shall be due and payable as
provided in section 5.10.100. As noted in section 5.10.040, cultivators shall pay a
cultivation tax in lieu of this gross receipts tax.

B.	The City Council may, in its discretion, implement by resolution a tax rate lower
than the maximum rate established in subsection (A) of this section for all
persons engaged in a commercial cannabis business in the City, or establish
differing tax rates for different categories of commercial cannabis business,
including for medical versus adult recreational use. The City Council may, by
resolution, also decrease or increase any such tax rate from time to time,
provided that the tax rate shall not, at. any time, exceed the maximum tax rate
established in subsection (A) of this section.

C.	Commercial cannabis businesses subject to the tax imposed by subsections (A)
and (B) of this section shall also register and pay the registration fee described in
section 5.10.45, but shall be exempt from paying the general business license tax
imposed by chapter 5.04 of the City of Weed Municipal Code. Any cannabis
business not subject to the tax imposed by subsections (A) and (B) of this section
is subject to the general business license tax imposed by Title 5 of the City of
Weed Municipal Code except as otherwise provided by this Code or other
applicable law.

5.10.040 Cultivation Tax.

A.	Any cannabis business engaged in the cultivation of cannabis shall pay (i) the
cultivation tax imposed by this section instead of the tax imposed by section
5.10.030 on its cultivation activity and (ii) the tax imposed by section 5.10.030 on
its other cannabis business activity. The activity of nurseries as defined in section
5.10.020 is subject to the tax imposed by section 5.10.030 rather the tax imposed
by this section.

City of Weed Ordinance No. 448-2018
11

Adopted July 12, 2018

Page 3 of

B.	There is hereby imposed on every cannabis business engaged in commercial
cannabis cultivation in the City, an annual tax in an amount established from
time to time by resolution of the City Council which does not exceed ten dollars
($10.00) per square foot of outdoor cultivation area, eighteen dollars ($18.00) per
square foot of mixed-light cultivation area, and twenty-six dollars ($26.00) per
square foot of indoor cultivation area. The maximum square foot tax shall be
adjusted annually (and rounded to the nearest cent) each January 1st based on a
consumer price index designated by the City Council. The tax shall be due and
payable in installments as provided in section 5.10.100.

C.	The City Council may by resolution, in its discretion, implement a tax rate lower
than the maximum rates set forth in subsection (B) of this section for all
businesses engaged in commercial cannabis cultivation in the City or establish

tax rates for categories of commercial cannabis cultivation. For example, and
without limitation, the City Council may set different tax rates for cannabis
cultivation for medical or adult recreational use, or for indoor rather than
outdoor or mixed-light cultivation. The City Council may, by resolution, also
decrease or increase any such tax rate from time to time, provided that the tax
rate shall not, at any time, exceed the maximum established in subsection (A) of
this section.

D.	Businesses liable for the tax imposed by this chapter shall also register and pay
the registration fee described in section 5.10.45, but shall be exempt from the
general business license fees required under chapter 5.04 of the City of Weed
Municipal Code. Any business not subject to the tax imposed by this section
5.10.040 is subject to the business license taxes required under Title 5 of the City
of Weed Municipal Code except as otherwise provided by this code or other
applicable law.

5.10.045 Registration of Commercial Cannabis Businesses.

A.	All persons engaging in a commercial cannabis business, whether an existing,
newly established or acquired business, shall register with the city manager's
office within 30 days of commencing operation and shall annually renew such
registration on or before the anniversary of the initial registration for that
business. Registrants shall furnish to the City Manager a sworn statement, upon
a form provided by the City Manager, setting forth:

1.	Every name under which the business engages in commercial cannabis

activity in the City of Weed;

2.	The names and addresses of every owner of the business;

3.	The nature or kind of all business activity to be conducted;

4.	The place or places where such business is to be conducted, whether or

not in the City; and

5.	Any further information which the City Manager may require.

City of Weed Ordinance No. 448-2018
11

Adopted July 12, 2018

Page 4 of

A.	Registrants shall pay an annual registration fee in an amount established from
time to time by resolution of the City Council to recover the City's costs to
implement the taxes imposed under this chapter, the registration requirement of
this section, and the other provisions of this chapter. As a regulatory fee, such fee
shall be limited to the City's reasonable regulatory costs.

B.	The registration and registration fee shall be collected and enforced in
accordance with Title 5, Chapter 5.04 of this code ("Business Licenses").

5.10.050 Payment Obligation.

All commercial cannabis businesses subject to a tax under this this chapter shall pay
that tax regardless of any rebate, exemption, incentive, or other reduction set forth
elsewhere in this code, except as required by state or federal Law. Failure to pay such a
tax within 30 days after the due date shall be subject to penalties, interest charges, and
assessments as provided in this chapter and the City may use any or all other code
enforcement remedies available at law or in equity. No provision of this code shall be
interpreted to reduce a tax rate established under this chapter or otherwise reduce the
taxes paid hereunder unless the provision specifically expresses that reduction.

5.10.060 City Council Authorization to Adjust Rates.

The City Council may impose a tax authorized by this chapter at a lower rate and may
establish exemptions, incentives, or other reductions, and penalties and interest charges
or assessments for failure to pay the tax when due, as otherwise allowed by law. No
action by the City Council under this section shall prevent it from later increasing the
tax or removing any exemption, incentive, or reduction, and restoring the maximum tax
authorized by this chapter provided only that the maximum taxes stated in section
5.10.030, subsection (A) and 5.10.040, subsection (B) may not be increased without
voter
approval.

5.10.070 Tax Payment Does Not Authorize Activity.

The payment of a tax imposed under this chapter shall not be construed to authorize
the

conduct or continuance of any illegal business or of a legal business in an illegal
manner. Nothing in this chapter authorizes or implies the lawfulness of any activity
connected with the distribution or possession of cannabis unless otherwise authorized
and allowed in strict and full conformance with this code. Nothing in this chapter shall
be applied or construed as authorizing the sale of cannabis.

5.10.080 Cannabis Tax Is Not a Sales Tax.

City of Weed Ordinance No. 448-2018	Adopted	July	12,	2018	Page	5	of

11

The taxes provided for under this chapter are excises on the privilege of doing business
in the City and legally incident on those engaged in such business. It is not a sales or use
tax and shall not be calculated or assessed as such. Nevertheless, at the option of a
taxpayer, the tax may be separately identified on invoices, receipts and other evidences
of transactions.

5.10.090	Amendments and Administration.

A.	Voters approved this chapter. Any amendment to this chapter to increase the tax
above the maximum rates provided requires further voter approval. The voters
authorize the City Council to set the tax at or below that maximum or otherwise

to amend, modify, change, or revise any provision of this chapter as the City
Council deems in the best interest of the City.

B.	The City Manager, in consultation with the City Attorney, may promulgate rules,
regulations, and procedures to implement and administer this chapter to ensure
the efficient and timely collection of the taxes and fee imposed by this chapter,
including without limitation, formulation and implementation of penalties and
interest to be assessed for failure to pay the taxes as provided. Notice of such
regulations shall be given as required for ordinances of the City Council and such
regulations shall be immediately effective when such notice is given unless a
different effective date is provided by a regulation.

C.	The City Manager shall annually audit the taxes imposed by this chapter to verify
that tax revenues have been properly collected and expended in accordance with
the law.

D.	Pursuant to California Constitution, article XIII B, the appropriation limit for the
City is increased to the maximum extent over the maximum period of time
allowed under law consistent with the revenues generated by the taxes and fee
imposed by this chapter.

5.10.100 Returns and Remittances.

The tax shall be due and payable as follows:

A.	Each commercial cannabis business owing tax shall provide a tax return to the
City Manager on or before the last business day of each month stating the tax
owed and the basis of its calculation for the preceding month. The taxpayer shall
remit the tax owed to the City Manager when the return is due whether or not a
return is filed as required.

B.	All tax returns shall be completed on forms provided by the City Manager.

C.	Tax returns and payments for all outstanding taxes, fees, penalties and interest

City of Weed Ordinance No. 448-2018
11

Adopted July 12, 2018

Page 6 of

owed the City are immediately due upon cessation of business for any reason.

D.	Whenever any payment, statement, report, request or other communication is
received by the City Manager after the time prescribed by this section for its
receipt, but is in an envelope postmarked on or before the date prescribed by this
section for its receipt, the City Manager shall regard such payment, statement,
report, request, or other communication as timely. If the due date falls on Friday,
Saturday, Sunday, or a holiday, the due date shall be the last earlier business day
on which City Hall is open to the public.

E.	Unless otherwise specifically provided by this chapter, the taxes imposed by this
chapter shall be deemed delinquent if not paid on or before the due date specified
in subsection A of this section.

F.	The City Manager need not send a delinquency or other notice or bill to any
person subject to a tax or fee imposed by this chapter and failure to send such
notice or bill shall not affect the validity of any tax, fee, interest or penalty due
under this chapter.

5.10.110 Failure to Pay Timely.

A.	Any person who fails or refuses to pay any tax or fee imposed by this chapter
when due shall pay penalties and interest as follows:

1.	A penalty equal to 25 percent of the tax or fee; and

2.	An additional penalty equal to 25 percent of the amount of the tax or
fee if unpaid for a more than a month beyond the due date; and

3.	Unpaid tax, fee, penalties shall bear 1 percent interest per month from
the date due until paid.

A.	If a check is submitted in payment of a tax or fee and is returned unpaid by the
bank upon which drawn, and the check is not redeemed before the due date, the
taxpayer will be liable for the tax or fee due plus penalties and interest as
provided for in this section plus any amount allowed under law for the returned
check.

B.	The tax due shall be that amount due and payable from the later of (i) the
effective date of this chapter or (ii) the first date on which the commercial
cannabis business first operated in the City.

C.	The City Manager may waive some or all of the penalties imposed by this section
as to any person if:

1. The person provides evidence satisfactory to the City Manager that
failure to pay timely was due to circumstances beyond the control of the

City of Weed Ordinance No. 448-2018
11

Adopted July 12, 2018

Page 7 of

person and occurred notwithstanding the exercise of ordinary care and
the absence of willful neglect, and the person paid the delinquent tax or
fee and accrued interest owed the City upon applying for a waiver.

2. A waiver authorized by this subsection shall not apply to tax, fee or
interest and may be granted only once during any 24-month period.

5.10.120 Refunds.

A.	No refund shall be made of any tax collected pursuant to this chapter, except as
provided in this section.

B.	No refund of any tax collected pursuant to this chapter shall be made because of
the discontinuation, dissolution, or other termination of a commercial cannabis
business.

C.	Any person entitled to a refund of sums paid under this chapter may elect to
have such refund applied as a credit against future obligations under this
chapter.

D.	Whenever any tax, fee, penalty, or interest under this chapter has been overpaid,
paid more than once, or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received by
the City, such amount shall be refunded to the person who paid the tax upon a
timely written claim for refund filed with the City Manager.

E.	The City Manager may examine and audit all the books and business records of
the claimant to determine eligibility to the claimed refund. No claim for refund
shall be allowed if the claimant refuses to allow such examination of the
claimant's books and business records.

F.	A sum erroneously paid under this chapter due to an error of the City shall be
refunded to the claimant in full upon a timely claim. If an error is attributable to
the claimant, the City may retain an amount established by resolution of the City
Council from time to time in an amount sufficient to recover the City's cost to
process the claim and refund the balance.

G.	The City Manager shall initiate a refund of any sum overpaid or erroneously
collected under this chapter whenever the overpayment or erroneous collection
is disclosed by a City audit for the period of time unprotected by the duty to file
a timely claim under the Government Claims Act.

5.10.125 Enforcement.

A. The City Manager shall enforce this chapter.

City of Weed Ordinance No. 448-2018	Adopted July 12, 2018	Page 8	of

11

B.	The City Manager may audit and examine all business locations, books and
records of commercial cannabis businesses, including both state and federal
income tax returns, California sales tax returns, or other evidence documenting
the gross receipts of a commercial cannabis business to ascertain any tax due
under this chapter and to verify any returns or other information any person
submits to the City under this chapter. If a commercial cannabis business, after
written demand by the City Manager, refuses to make available for audit,
examination or verification such locations, books, and records as the City
Manager requests, the City Manager may, after full consideration of all such
information as is available make an assessment of tax or fee due and demand
payment from the tax- or fee-payer, together with any penalties and interest due
for late payment.

C.	The conviction and punishment of any person for failure to pay a sum required
under this chapter shall not excuse or exempt such person from any civil action
for the debt. No civil action shall prevent a criminal prosecution for any violation
of this chapter or of any state law requiring the payment of all taxes. No election
of remedies shall apply to the enforcement of this chapter or any other provision
of this code and the City may pursue one or more remedies in its discretion
provided only that no double recovery shall be permitted.

D.	Remedies.

a.	Any person violating any of the provision of this chapter or any regulation
or rule adopted pursuant to it, or knowingly or intentionally
misrepresenting any material fact to the City in procuring a certificate or
document from the city under this chapter or chapters 5.04 or 18.60 shall

be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor unless the City Attorney, in his or her
discretion, elects to prosecute it as an infraction.

b.	No election of remedies shall apply and the City Attorney and/or city
Manager may enforce this chapter by any manner authorized by this code
or other applicable law.

5.10.130 Consistency with Business Tax Rules.

The People of the City of Weed intend this chapter to be enforced consistently with Title
5.04 of this code and any rule or regulation promulgated under that title except as
expressly provided to the contrary in this chapter.

5.10.135 Successor And Assignee Responsibility.

A. If any person, while liable for any amount under this chapter, sells, assigns or
otherwise transfers half or more of a commercial cannabis business, whether
voluntarily or involuntarily; the person's successor, assignee or other transferee,
or other person or entity obtaining ownership or control of the business
("transferee") shall satisfy pay that amount when due. A transferee shall notify

City of Weed Ordinance No. 448-2018
11

Adopted July 12, 2018

Page 9 of

the City Manager of a transfer 30 days before the transfer date; or if the agreement
to sell, transfer, or otherwise dispose of the commercial cannabis business is made
less than 30 days before the date of transfer, on the first day City Hall is open for
business after the transfer.

B.	A transferee shall be deemed to have satisfied an unpaid liability if the transferee
complies with the requirements of California Revenue and Taxation Code Section
7283.5 and this section by withholding from the purchase price, for the benefit of
the City, an amount sufficient to cover the liability, or by otherwise paying the
liability and obtaining from the City Manager a "Tax Clearance Certificate"
showing that all outstanding liability has been paid through the date of transfer.

C.	Within 90 days of receiving a written request from a transferee, the City Manager
may issue a "Tax Clearance Certificate" stating either the amount due as to the
business under this chapter, or stating that there is no liability due for the
business through a stated date. The City Manager may also request financial
records from the transferor to audit the amount due under this chapter. The City
Manager shall issue a tax clearance certificate within 30 days of completing the
audit, stating any amount owed, unless the City Manager determines the records
provided for audit are insufficient to determine whether taxes, fees, penalties
and/or interest are due and in what amounts. If so, the City Manager may rely on
available information to estimate any amount due and shall issue a tax clearance
certificate stating that amount. A written application for an appeal hearing on the
amount assessed on a tax clearance certificate must be made within 10 days after
the City Manager serves or mails the certificate. If a timely application for a
hearing is not made, the tax clearance certificate shall serve as conclusive evidence
of the liability under this chapter associated with the business through the date
stated on the certificate.

Section 2. AMENDMENT. This Ordinance may be repealed or amended by the City
Council without a vote of the People except as follows: as required by Article XIII C of
the California Constitution, any amendment that increases the amount or rate of tax
beyond the levels authorized by this Ordinance may not take effect unless approved by
a vote of the People. The City Council may impose the tax in any amount or rate which
does not exceed the rate approved by the voters of the City.

SECTION 3. SEVERABILITY. If any provision of this Ordinance or the application
thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the Ordinance
and the application of such provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be
affected thereby. The People hereby declare that they would have adopted this
Ordinance and each portion thereof regardless of the fact that an invalid portion or
portions may have been present in the Ordinance.

SECTION 4. CEQA. This measure to be submitted to the voters adopts a general tax
to fund any legitimate purpose of the City. As such, under CEQA Guidelines section

City of Weed Ordinance No. 448 2018
11

Adopted July 12, 2018

Page 10 of

15378(b)(4), the tax is not a project within the meaning of CEQA because it creates a
government funding mechanism that does not involve any commitment to any specific
project that may result in a potentially significant impact on the environment.
Therefore, under CEQA Guidelines section 15060, review under CEQA is not required.

SECTION 5. EFFECTIVE DATE. This Ordinance relates to the levying and collecting
of the City's commercial cannabis business tax and shall take effect 10 days after the
certification of its approval by the majority of the voters voting at the special municipal
election to be held on June 5, 2018 pursuant to Elections Code section 9217.

SECTION 6. CERTIFICATION; PUBLICATION. Upon approval by the voters, the

City Clerk shall certify to the passage and adoption of this Ordinance and shall cause it

to be published according to law.

*********

It is hereby certified that this Ordinance was duly adopted by the voters at the June 5,
2018 Primary Election and took effect 10 days following adoption of a resolution
declaring the results of the election at a regular meeting of the City Council held on
July 12, 2018 by the following vote:

AYES:	Council Members Green, Greene, Hall, Palfini, and Tavalero

NOES:	None

ABSENT: None
ABSTAIN: None

Mayor

Sandra Duchi, Deputy City Clerk
City of Weed

ORDINANCE CERTIFICATION:

I CERTIFY THAT THIS IS A TRUE AND CORRECT COPY OF Ordinance No. 448-
2018, which has been published pursuant to law.

Sandra Duchi, Deputy City Clerk

City of Weed Ordinance No. 448-2018

Adopted July 12, 2018

Page 11 of