

3	Regional Measure 3		
BAY AREA TRAFFIC RELIEF PLAN. Shall voters authorize a plan to reduce		YES ^	
auto and truck traffic, relieve crowding on BART, unclog freeway bottlenecks, and improve bus, ferry, BART and commuter rail service as specified in the plan in this voter pamphlet, with a $1 toll increase effective in 2019, a $1 increase in 2022, and a $1 increase in 2025, on all Bay Area toll bridges except the Golden Gate Bridge, with independent oversight of all funds?		NO ^	

Impartial Analysis * •

Regional Measure 3 (RM3) would increase the tolls on
all Bay Area toll bridges except the Golden Gate
Bridge.The tolls would increase by $1 in 2019, an addi-
tional $1 in 2022, and an additional $1 in 2025, for a
total increase of $3. After 2025, tolls could be
increased for inflation.

By law, the Bay Area Toll Authority (Authority) would
have to use not more than 16% of the funds from
these toll increases to pay for up to $60 million in des-
ignated annual transportation operating programs.The
Authority would have to use the remaining available
funds, which the Authority estimates will total $4.45
billion, for designated transportation capital projects
throughout the Bay Area. The largest projects include:

•	purchasing new BART cars;

•	extending BART from the planned Berryessa/North
San Jose Station to San Jose and Santa Clara;

•	widening U.S. 101 through the Marin-Sonoma
Narrows to accommodate new carpool vehicle
lanes;

•	improving State Route 37, which serves Solano,
Marin, Napa, and Sonoma counties;

•	expanding the ferry service and increasing its fre-
quency;

•	improving Interstate 680/State Route 4 and
Interstate 80/680/State Route 12 interchanges; and

•	extending Caltrain to downtown San Francisco.

The Authority would be allowed to provide discounts
to high-occupancy vehicles or vehicles that pay tolls
without using cash.The Authority would be required

to provide a discount for certain commuters who
cross two bridges.

RM3 will be on the ballot in all nine Bay Area counties,
including the City and County of San Francisco and
the counties of Alameda, Contra Costa, Marin, Napa,
San Mateo, Santa Clara, Solano, and Sonoma.To pass,
RM3 requires approval by a majority of votes cast on
the measure in all nine counties combined.

An independent oversight committee would monitor
how funds from the toll increases are spent.This com-
mittee and the Authority would be required to submit
annual reports on use of the funds to the State
Legislature.

A "yes" vote is a vote to increase the toll on all Bay
Area toll bridges except the Golden Gate Bridge by $1
in 2019, an additional $1 in 2022, and an additional $1
in 2025.

A "no" vote is a vote to not approve the proposed toll
increase.

James R. Williams

County Counsel, County of Santa Clara

By:

Danielle L. Goldstein

Deputy County Counsel, County of Santa Clara

How "3" Got on the Ballot

On January 24, 2018, the Bay Area Toll Authority
passed a resolution to place Regional Measure 3 on
the ballot in the nine Bay Area counties; the San
Francisco Board of Supervisors consolidated this mea-
sure into the City's June election.

This regional measure requires 50%+1 affirmative votes of all votes cast in the nine Bay Area counties to pass.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of this measure. Arguments for and against this measure immediately follow.

The full text begins on page 53.

Proponent's Argument in Favor of Regional Measure 3

Vote YES on Regional Measure 3 to relieve traffic and
improve public transportation in San Francisco.

Regional Measure 3 will extend BART to San Jose and
Silicon Valley and expand the BART fleet to run more
frequent trains and reduce crowding.

Regional Measure 3 will also reduce truck traffic and
improve air quality in San Francisco, as well as add
new San Francisco Muni trains and buses to increase
service, reduce crowding and improve reliability.

Our region is suffering from the worst traffic crisis in
its history and, as the Bay Area grows by 2,000,000
additional residents in the next two decades, conges-
tion will get even worse. Too many Bay Area drivers
already spend hours and hours commuting every
week - keeping them away from their families and
homes.

We need a comprehensive, long-term solution to
reduce traffic, improve travel times and bring our pub-
lic transportation system into the 21st century. We
need Regional Measure 3.

Vote YES on Regional Measure 3 to extend Caltrain to
theTransbayTransit Center in downtown San
Francisco, double the frequency of ferry service, buy
more ferries and build new ferry terminals throughout
the Bay Area, including at Mission Bay.

Even for those who don't use public transportation.
Regional Measure 3 improvements will take cars off
the road and make everyone's commutes easier.

Vote YES on Regional Measure 3:

•	Improve transbay bus service and carpool access to
improve commute times across bridges

•	Upgrade the Clipper transit card system to support
universal, seamless public transit fare payment

•	Plan and design a second transbay rail crossing to
provide additional capacity for BART and other rail
services

•	Improve bike/pedestrian access to train stations and
ferry terminals

Regional Measure 3 mandates strong taxpayer safe-
guards, including independent audits, citizen oversight
and a Transportation Inspector General to hold elected
leaders accountable for spending.

Join commuters, traffic engineers and community
leaders - vote YES on Regional Measure 3.

www.yesonrm3.com

Senator Scott Wiener

Assemblymember David Chiu

Gabriel Metcalf, President & CEO, SPUR

San Francisco Firefighters, Local 798

Kristina Pappas, President, San Francisco League of

Conservation Voters

Rebuttal to Proponent's Argument in Favor of Regional Measure 3

THIS REGIONAL MEASURE SEEKS TO ERECT A
"ROTTEN BOROUGH" GOVERNMENT OF UNELECTED
PEOPLE TO SET BRIDGE TOLLS IN THE BAY AREA:

These politically appointed persons will be
Sacramento lobbyist-influenced people not elected by
local voters.

They certainly won't represent you.

It is a very foolish move to vote to approve this
strange new board.

This is a bad deal for the environment.

Vote "NO!" on misguided Regional Measure 3, which
can only hurt the San Francisco Bay and its residents.

Say "NO!" to Sacramento lobbyists.

Dr. Terence Faulkner, J.D.

Past Member of Regional Citizens Forum Board of
Association of Bay Area Governments*

Denis J. Norrington,

Owner / Sole Proprietor
Arrow Stamp and Coin Company*

Howard Epstein*

Stephanie Jeong*

*For identification purposes only; author is signing as
an individual and not on behalf of an organization.

Arguments are the opinions of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency.
Arguments are printed as submitted. Spelling and grammatical errors have not been corrected.

Opponent's Argument Against Regional Measure 3

CALIFORNIA'S REGIONAL BODIES-SUCH AS THE
BAY AREA TOLL AUTHORITY-ARE POLITICALLY
CHOSEN AND NOT ELECTED BYTHE PEOPLE OFTHE
BAY AREA:

Like many other regional boards, the members of Bay
Area Toll Authority will NOT BE ELECTED by the peo-
ple of the Bay Region.They will be appointed politi-
cally. They will not represent the residents of our Bay
Area Counties.

The members of the Bay Area Toll Authority will only
represent Sacramento-oriented political figures.

They will set the tolls to be charged on Bay Area
bridges, but will NOT BE ELECTER by our Bay Region's
voters.

This unwise measure should be VOTED AGAINST and
rewritten to allow public elections to the Bay Area Toll
Authority.

The people of the Bay Region should have the right to
elect the Bay Area Toll Authority.

Dr. Terence Faulkner, J.D.

Past Member of Regional Citizens Forum Board of
Association of Bay Area Governments*

*For identification purposes only; author is signing as
an individual and not on behalf of an organization.

Rebuttal to Opponent's Argument Against Regional Measure 3

If opponents of Regional Measure 3 got their way, we
would do nothing to prepare for the additional
2,000,000 residents moving to the Bay Area in the
next 20 years.

Bay Area traffic has grown 80% since 2010 and has
broken congestion records for the last four years in a
row. We cannot afford to wait and watch as commutes
grow longer, public transportation becomes more
crowded and Bay Area traffic becomes the worst in
the country.

This problem will NOT solve itself. Regional Measure 3
makes vital transportation improvements BEFORE
traffic gets even worse.

Opponents of Regional Measure 3 are only against
these vital improvements to our roads and public
transportation system because they want to wage war
on a single government agency - and they're willing
to let traffic and commutes get worse than ever to do
it.

Vote YES on Regional Measure 3 for a comprehensive,
long-term plan to reduce traffic, improve commutes
and expand public transportation in San Francisco.

Vote YES on Regional Measure 3 to:

•	Extend BART to San Jose and Silicon Valley, pur-
chase new BART cars and help expand BART capac-
ity by 45%

•	Reduce congestion from truck traffic and add new
carpool lanes

•	Mandate strong taxpayer safeguards to help ensure
transportation projects are completed on time and
on budget

Regional Measure 3 improvements will take cars off
the road and make public transportation more accessi-
ble than ever - making travel times faster.

This is our chance to reduce traffic before it brings
San Francisco to a standstill. Vote YES on Regional
Measure 3!

www.YesonRM3.com

Assemblymember Phil Ting

San Francisco Mayor Mark Farrell

Jim Lazarus, Sr. Vice President, SF Chamber of

Commerce

Michael Theriault, Secretary-Treasurer, San Francisco
Labor Council

Rachel Hyden, Executive Director, San Francisco
Transit Riders

Arguments are the opinions of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency.
Arguments are printed as submitted. Spelling and grammatical errors have not been corrected.



Regional Measure 3

Bay Area Traffic Relief Plan

Subject to approval on June 5, 2018, by the voters of Alameda, Contra Costa, Marin, Napa,

San Mateo, Santa Clara, Solano and Sonoma counties and the City and County of San Francisco

Prepared by the Metropolitan Transportation Commission pursuant to Chapter 650, Statutes 2017 (SB 595, Beall)

54

Legal Text - Regional Measure 3

38-EN-J18-CP54

Bay Area Traffic Relief Plan

Regional Measure 3

Highlights of the Bay Area Traffic Relief Plan

	
	
	
	
	
	

The Bay Area Traffic Relief Plan (the Plan) includes $4.5 billion in transportation capital improvements across
the region. Some of the Plan’s biggest investments are noted below. For complete details, refer to the remainder of
this summary, which describes each project and is organized by bridge corridor.

Public Transit Improvements	Amount
Add new BART cars to allow for more frequent and reliable service and to reduce crowding	$500 million
Extend BART through downtown San Jose to Santa Clara	$375 million
Extend Caltrain to Transbay Transit Center in San Francisco	$325 million
Invest in more frequent and expanded ferry service	$300 million
Replace and expand San Francisco Muni’s vehicle fleet and associated facilities	$140 million
Expand San Jose’s Diridon Station for existing and future rail and bus services	$100 million
Improve transit connections on the Interstate 580 corridor in the Tri-Valley	$100 million
Traffic Bottleneck Relief	
Expand Bay Area Corridor Express Lane network	$300 million
Improve access in the Richmond-San Rafael Bridge corridor	$210 million
Improve Interstate 680/state Route 4 interchange in Contra Costa County	$210 million
Reduce truck traffic congestion and mitigate its environmental impacts	$160 million
Improve Interstate 80/Interstate 680/state Route 12 interchange in Solano County	$150 million
Dumbarton Bridge and rail corridor improvements	$130 million
Add new carpool lanes in the Marin-Sonoma Narrows on U.S. Highway 101	$120 million
Improve Interstate 80 Westbound truck scales in Solano County	$105 million
Flood protection and mobility improvements to state Route 37 in Marin, Solano and Sonoma counties	$100 million
Bicycle and Pedestrian Safety and Access	
Expand San Francisco Bay Trail and improve public transit access for bicyclists and pedestrians	$150 million

Regional Measure 3

Table of Contents

	
	
	
	
	
	

Executive Summary	5

Introduction	6

History of Bridge Tolls	6

•	Regional Measure 1	7

•	Seismic Safety	7

•	Regional Measure 2	7

Current Travel Patterns and Future Growth	8

Bridge Tolls Help Fund the Bay Area’s Transportation System	9

The Plan Prioritizes Improvements in the Most Congested Corridors	9

Development and Oversight of Regional Measure 3	10

Bay Area Traffic Relief Plan Projects	11

Regionwide Improvements	11

Central Bridge Corridor Projects

(San Francisco-Oakland Bay Bridge)	15

Southern Bridge Corridor Projects

(Dumbarton and San Mateo-Hayward Bridges)	17

Northern Bridge Corridor Projects

(Antioch, Benicia-Martinez, Carquinez & Richmond-San Rafael Bridges)	19

Other Provisions	22

Between now and 2040, the Bay Area’s economy is expected to add one million jobs, while our population is
expected to grow by two million residents. To improve the quality of life and sustain the economy, Regional
Measure 3 (RM 3) invests in projects that will reduce congestion and enhance travel options in the Bay Area’s
seven state-owned bridge corridors as provided in Sections 1 and 7 of Senate Bill 595 (Beall, 2017).

If approved by a majority of all voters in Alameda, Contra Costa, Marin, Napa, San Mateo, Santa Clara,
Solano and Sonoma counties and the City and County of San Francisco, RM 3 will implement the Bay Area
Traffic Relief Plan (the Plan), a set of 35 projects and programs to reduce auto and truck traffic; relieve
crowding on BART; unclog freeway bottlenecks; improve bus, ferry, BART and commuter rail service; and
enhance bicycle and pedestrian mobility in the bridge corridors.

The Bay Area Traffic Relief Plan

•	Enhances passenger rail by adding new Bay Area Rapid Transit (BART) cars; extending BART, Caltrain
and Santa Clara Valley Transit Authority (VTA) light rail to jobs and regional transit hubs; and
expanding Diridon Station to accommodate BART, Caltrain, Amtrak and future high-speed rail.

•	Funds highway traffic bottleneck relief throughout the region, including improvements to interchanges
in Alameda, Contra Costa, Marin and Solano counties; an expansion of express lanes; enhancements to
the Dumbarton Bridge corridor; and the addition of new carpool lanes on U.S. Highway 101 in Marin
and Sonoma counties.

•	Funds additional transit enhancements in the San Francisco-Oakland Bay Bridge corridor, including
new express bus and ferry service, Alameda-Contra Costa Transit District (AC Transit) bus rapid transit
expansion in the East Bay, replacement and expansion of San Francisco Muni’s aging transit fleet, and
transit enhancements in the Tri-Valley on Interstate 580. •

•	Provides more frequent ferry service on existing routes and expansion to new locations, such as Berkeley,
Mission Bay (San Francisco), Redwood City and Seaplane Lagoon (Alameda), as determined by the
San Francisco Bay Area Water Emergency Transportation Authority.

•	Invests in projects to reduce truck traffic and emissions associated with trucks accessing the Port of Oakland.

•	Supports an upgrade to the region’s transit fare payment system, Clipper®.

•	The Plan is financed by a $1 increase in tolls on all Bay Area toll bridges except the Golden Gate Bridge
effective January 1,2019, a $1 toll increase effective January 1, 2022, and a $1 toll increase effective
January 1, 2025.

The Plan includes
35 projects and
programs to relieve
traffic and enhance
public transit in
bridge corridors.

RM 3 proposes a
major capital
investment of
$4.5 billion to relieve
traffic congestion and
improve travel
through the Bay Area’s
state-owned bridge
corridors.

Regional Measure 3

Introduction

	
	
	
	
	
	

History of Bridge Tolls

Bridges serve as essential links in the Bay Area’s transportation network. They sustain the flow of people and
goods and the overall economic health of the region. The tolls charged on the seven state-owned toll bridges-
the Antioch, Benicia-Martinez, Carquinez, Dumbarton, Richmond-San Rafael, San Mateo-Hayward and San
Francisco-Oakland Bay bridges-are used not just to keep the bridges in working order but also to make sure
that transportation facilities and transit service in the bridge corridors can accommodate future traffic and
population growth. Bridge tolls have been used to fund bridge replacement, transportation improvements that
help reduce congestion in the bridge corridors and necessary seismic strengthening of the bridges.

Map of State-Owned Toll Bridges

Sonoma t

U i

\ . \\

Carquinez P' ^

“ Bridge	Benicia-Martinez

Bridge

Richmond-San Rafael
'Bridge

w

101

V-\	24

\

-San Francisco-Oakland
Bay Bridge ------------

580

Contra

Costa

280

880

580



82  35	San Mateo-  Hayward  Bridge^
^San >	
Mateo	mi
92 i	>80  84

Alameda



84

Dumbarton
Bridge ^



....R.



SantaClara



Regional Measure 3

Regional Measure 1

In 1988, Bay Area voters approved Regional Measure 1 (RM 1) by a margin of almost 70 percent. The measure
standardized all tolls on the region’s state-owned bridges at $1 and used the new revenues to fund a list of
bridge and public transit improvements. Previously, tolls were set at different rates on each bridge. The base
toll funds were and continue to be used to operate and maintain the bridges. Projects funded by RM 1 include:

	
	
	
	
	
	

•	A replacement span for the Carquinez Bridge

•	Widening of the San Mateo-Hayward Bridge

•	Construction of the new Benicia-Martinez Bridge

•	Rehabilitation of the Richmond-San Rafael Bridge

•	Richmond Parkway construction

•	Improvements to BART, Caltrain and the San Francisco
Municipal Railway (Muni)

Current $5 Bridge Toll Structure

| Seismic Safety and
Bridge Capital Projects

■ Regional Measure 1 and
Bridge Operations

I Regional Measure 2

Seismic Safety

SOURCE: Bay Area Toll Authority

Bridge tolls have been vital to ensuring the safety of Bay Area bridges in the event of earthquakes. In 1997,
the California Legislature added a second dollar to the region’s bridge tolls to fund needed seismic retrofit
work on the Benicia-Martinez, Carquinez, Richmond-San Rafael, San Francisco-Oakland Bay and San
Mateo-Hayward bridges. In 2007 and 2010 two additional dollars were added by the Legislature and Bay Area
Toll Authority (BATA), respectively, to complete the replacement of the Bay Bridge’s East Span, seismically
retrofit the Antioch and Dumbarton Bridges, and cover additional bridge capital expenses.

Regional Measure 2

Voters in 2004 approved Regional Measure 2 (RM 2), raising the toll on the region’s seven state-owned
bridges by $1. Similar to RM 3, RM 2 established a Regional Traffic Relief Plan to help finance highway,
transit, bicycle and pedestrian projects in the bridge corridors and their approaches, and to provide operating
funds for key transit services. RM 2 consisted of 36 projects, including:

•	BART seismic retrofit and Warm Springs extension

•	Muni Metro Third Street light rail

•	The Caldecott Tbnnel’s fourth bore

Bridge tolls
have funded over
60 percent of
the total cost for
seismic retrofit work
on the Bay Area’s
seven state-owned
toll bridges.

•	Improvements to the Interstate 80/Interstate 680/state Route 12 interchange in Solano County

•	Bicycle and pedestrian transit access improvements in all nine Bay Area counties

•	eBART, a rail extension of approximately nine miles to eastern Contra Costa County, scheduled to open in 2018

•	The new Sonoma-Marin Area Rail Transit (SMART) train

Regional Measure 3

Current Travel Patterns and Future Growth

The Bay Area’s dynamic economy and well-developed transportation system give workers access to jobs located
in numerous places within the region’s 7,000 square miles. Each weekday, over 3.7 million Bay Area workers
find a way to their jobs, whether by driving alone, carpooling, walking, biking, or riding buses, trains, ferries
and cable cars. Yet traffic delays and transit overcrowding have grown significantly worse in recent years.
Overall commute time is at the highest level on record, and the transportation system has been stretched past
its limits while the Bay Area has experienced record employment growth.

By 2040, the Bay Area is forecast to add 1.3 million jobs, and the population of the nine counties is expected
to increase to 9-6 million. This job growth will generate a need for investment in the Bay Area’s bridge
corridors. To relieve traffic congestion and to help people get where they need to go on the region’s seven
state-owned toll bridges (Antioch, Benicia-Martinez, Carquinez, Dumbarton, Richmond-San Rafael,

San Mateo-Hayward and San Francisco-Oakland Bay bridges), Regional Measure 3 (RM 3) proposes a
major capital investment of $4.5 billion to fund the Bay Area Traffic Relief Plan (the Plan), as described in
this summary.

Each weekday, over
3.7 million Bay Area
workers must find a
way to their jobs.

By 2040, the Bay Area
is forecast to add
1.3 million jobs.

The San Francisco-
Oakland Bay Bridge
carries more
than one-third
of all state-owned
toll bridge trips.

Regional Measure 3

Bridge Tolls Help Fund the Bay Area’s Transportation System

The Bay Area’s local roads, highways and public transit systems are paid for by taxes and fees, including
gas taxes, voter-approved sales taxes and transit fares that are levied at the local, state and federal levels and
dedicated to transportation purposes. The majority of these funds are dedicated to maintaining and operating
roadways and public transit systems: repaving roads; fixing potholes; and maintaining and operating trains,
buses and ferries. Bridge tolls maintain and operate existing toll bridges, build new bridges and fund seismic
safety. Tolls also fund transportation improvements that help reduce congestion in the bridge corridors, such
as Bay Area Rapid Transit (BART), buses and ferries. If approved by Bay Area voters, RM 3 would fund the
next generation of major transportation improvements in bridge corridors.

The Plan Prioritizes Improvements in the Most Congested Corridors

The Bay Area Traffic Relief Plan (the Plan), funded by RM 3, includes projects benefiting each of the
Bay Area’s nine counties and prioritizes projects in the most congested bridge corridors. Commuters on the
Bay Bridge experience the worst delays, so the Plan’s biggest investments target this corridor, including
$500 million for new BART cars to accommodate additional riders and $300 million for an expanded Bay
Area ferry system. The Plan will fund dozens of additional improvements in each of the remaining bridge
corridors, as described in this summary.

	
	
	
	
	
	

RM 3 would fund
the next generation of
major transportation
improvements in
bridge corridors.

Share of Vehicle Trips by Bridge Corridor, Fiscal Year 2016-17

Central

^ San Francisco-Oakland Bay Bridge, 34%
North

| Carquinez Bridge, 16%

HI Benicia-Martinez Bridge, 15%

H Richmond-San Rafael Bridge, 10%

H Antioch Bridge, 2%

South

I I San Mateo-Hayward Bridge, 14%

I | Dumbarton Bridge, 8%

SOURCE: Bay Area Toll Authority

NOTE: Totals do not sum to 100% due to rounding. Sum of individual bridge shares do not match bridge corridor shares due to
rounding.

The Plan expands
transit service
and capacity in the
Bay Bridge corridor,
where vehicle hours
of delay are forecast
to double between
2015 and 2040.

Legal Text - Regional Measure 3

62



Development and Oversight of Regional Measure 3

In 2017, the California Legislature took action to provide congestion relief and public transit
in the region’s seven state-owned toll bridge corridors. Specifically, Senate Bill 595 (Beall) es a ^
a $4.5 billion capital expenditure plan (the Bay Area Traffic Relief Plan), and authorized the Bay ^ p,allot
Authority (BATA) - which administers bridge toll revenue - to place a toll increase of up to on
to fund this plan. The Bay Area Traffic Relief Plan (the Plan) includes 35 high-priority transpor a i
projects to reduce traffic congestion and improve movement in bridge corridors.

Independent and Legislative Oversight

Subject to voter approval of Regional Measure 3 (RM 3), BATA is required
to establish an 18-member Independent Oversight Committee comprised
of two representatives appointed by the board of supervisors in each of the
nine counties to ensure toll funds are spent in a manner consistent with
the law. In addition, BATA is required to submit an annual report on the
status of the Plan to the Legislature.

Senate Bill No. 595

CHAPTER 650

28840) to Chapter 3

149.6, 30102.5 30X91 ?nn?iblc	Code,	and	to	amend	Sections

30950.3of and	to aJdTJA 30920.

ighways Code, relating to transportation? ^	t0'

[Approved by Governor October 10, 2017. Filed with
Secretary of State October 10, 2017.]

LEGISLATIVE counsel’s digest

Toll Funds Subject to Annual Audit

Toll expenditures are subject to an annual independent financial
audit by a licensed certified public accounting firm. The audit
report is presented by the auditor directly to the BATA Audit
Committee on an annual basis. The Fiscal Year (FY) 2016-17
Comprehensive Annual Financial Report is available for
download at https://mtc.ca.gov/bata.

Performance Measures

The Plan provides new operating funding for ferry and bus service expansion.	^ reqUired to develop

allocating funds for this purpose, the Metropolitan Transportation Commission (JV ' sjmilar
performance measures, such as ridership targets, to ensure tolls are used cost-etlec i ’’ enough riders
requirement existed for RM 2 and led to the substitution of certain routes that did no
with routes that were more cost-effective.

gg 595	'-vuNSEL	S	DIGEST

revenues: BART IrZn^t>°^Zln transportation Commission: toll bridge

Al(l)°Ety-: high~occuP^c7t^Uanes	Ciara VaUey TransP°rtation

(MTC) as a regionalZtt^8 Metropolitan Transportation Commission
c°mprehensive revinnaZt m f^e county San Francisco Bay area with
resPonsibilities. Existino / ransPortation planning and other related
as a Separate entity governed	the Bay Area Toll Authority (BATA)

makes BATA responsible f ^ Same governing board as MTC and
allocation of toll revenuec r	ProSramming, administration, and

y andsco Bay area Frimn , 113 the state~owned toll bridges in the San
for certain purposes inch'd; Z authorizes BATA to increase the toll rates
f°r certain costs associated118 to™eetlts bond obligations, provide funding
deluding for the seismic retmhf1 bay area state-owned toll bridges,
etrofit of those bridges, and provide funding to

Project Level Oversight

Prior to receiving funding, each project must have a completed cost estimate
be allocated to projects with sufficient funds to complete the project.

and schedule- Funds ^ on*y

Regional Measure 3

Bay Area Traffic Relief Plan Projects

	
	
	
	
	
	

Details on the projects included in the Bay Area Traffic Relief Plan (the Plan) are organized into four
sections: regionwide improvements, and improvements in three major bridge groupings: Central (San
Francisco-Oakland Bay Bridge Corridor), North (Antioch, Benicia-Martinez, Carquinez and Richmond-San
Rafael Bridge Corridors), and South (Dumbarton and San Mateo-Hayward Bridge Corridors).

Regionwide Improvements

Capital Program

The Bay Area’s dynamic economy and well-developed transportation system give workers access to jobs located
in numerous parts of the region. More than one-third of Bay Area commuters travel across county lines to get
to work, making them especially reliant on the regional transportation system each day. Regional Measure 3
(RM 3) projects identified as “regionwide” are those that have an impact beyond one county or bridge
corridor, including competitive grant programs available across all nine counties.

Almost 70 percent
of funds in the Plan
are dedicated to
improving public
transit options in
the bridge corridors.

BART Expansion Cars ($500 million)

Purchase new railcars to expand the Bay Area Rapid Transit (BART) vehicle fleet
to allow for more frequent trains, less crowding and improved reliability. According
to BART, the funds will help purchase an additional 300 vehicles that, coupled with
other system improvements already underway, are expected to boost transbay
passenger capacity by up to 30 percent.

Bay Area Corridor Express Lanes ($300 million)

Invest in the expansion of express lanes to complete the Bay Area Express Lane network. Projects could
include express lanes in Alameda, Contra Costa, San Mateo, Santa Clara and Solano counties and in the City
and County of San Francisco.

Express lanes give solo drivers the option to use high-occupancy vehicle (HOV) lanes
(also known as “carpool lanes”) for a fee when the time savings is worth it to them.
Express lanes provide travel time savings to carpools and buses, which continue to have
free access to the lanes, while improving freeway conditions for all drivers by
maximizing the use of all lanes.

Projects will include conversion of existing HOV lanes to express lanes and the constmction of new express
lanes. Consistent with SB 595, projects will be prioritized based on project readiness and benefit-cost, among
other factors. See the map on page 12 for express lane segments that could be funded by RM 3.

BAY AREA

EXPRESS LANES

RM 3 provides funding
for new BART cars
to reduce crowding.

Regional Measure 3

Map of Potential New Express Lanes

	
	
	
	
	
	

Ferry Enhancement Program ($300 million)

San Francisco Bay Ferry

Invest in more frequent ferry service and enhanced capacity on existing routes.
Projects will be prioritized by the San Francisco Bay Area Water Emergency
Transportation Authority according to its 2016 Strategic Plan, which envisions
more frequent service between San Francisco and Alameda/Oakland, Vallejo and
Harbor Bay and new service to Seaplane Lagoon (Alameda), Mission Bay (San
Francisco), Berkeley and Redwood City. Funds will be used to purchase new vessels,
upgrade and rehabilitate existing vessels, build and upgrade existing facilities, and
build or expand terminals.

RM 3 aims to
reduce truck traffic
and mitigate
its environmental
impacts.

Goods Movement and Mitigation ($160 million)

Reduce truck traffic congestion and mitigate its environmental impacts. Eligible
projects include, but are not limited to, improvements in Alameda County to enable
more goods to be shipped by rail; access improvements on Interstate 580, Interstate 80
and Interstate 880; and improved access to the Port of Oakland.

San Francisco Bay Trail/Safe Routes to Transit ($150 million)

Improve bicycle and pedestrian access on and near the region’s toll bridges and to rail
transit stations and ferry terminals. Access improvements include sidewalks, bike
paths, traffic signal improvements, clearer signage and secure bicycle parking.

Capitol Corridor ($90 million)

Improve the performance of the Capitol Corridor rail service - which operates weekday
and weekend rail service from San Jose to Sacramento. The project is designed to
reduce travel times, including between Oakland and San Jose; allow more frequent
service; and improve safety and reliability.

CAPITOL

CORRIDOR

Next Generation Clipper® Transit Fare Payment System ($50 million)

CLIPPER

Invest in the next generation of Clipper, the Bay Area’s transit fare payment system.
Clipper is currently available on each of the Bay Area’s two dozen transit systems. The
goal of the next generation system is to support a more convenient and mobile-
friendly transit fare payment system for Bay Area transit riders.

RM 3 invests in
better bicycle and
pedestrian access
to San Francisco
Bay and regional
transit stations.

Regional Measure 3

Annual Transit Operating Funding

	
	
	
	
	
	

The Plan invests up to 16 percent of annual RM 3 toll revenue, up to $60 million per year, to support bus and
ferry service enhancements and the operation of the new Transbay Transit Center in downtown San Francisco.
The table below indicates the maximum annual dollar amounts allowed for operating purposes. The dollar
amounts are estimates for the amount available in 2025, once the RM 3 toll increase is fully phased in.

Program	Share of Operating Funds (Annual Dollar Amount Not to Exceed)
Transbay Transit Center	8 percent ($5 million)
Regional Express Bus	34 percent ($20 million)
Ferry Service Expansion	58 percent ($35 million)  (phased in over five years starting at $10 million)

Transbay Transit Center

Funds are available for transportation-related costs associated with operating the new terminal, the future hub
for regional bus service as well as the new San Francisco terminus for Caltrain and future high-speed rail.

Regional Express Bus

The Plan makes available up to $20 million per year for transbay express bus service,
with a priority given to those routes that carry the greatest number of riders. Prior to
allocating the funds, MTC will adopt performance measures related to fare-box
recovery, ridership, or other indicators, as appropriate.

Ferry Service Expansion

Up to $35 million per year will be made available to the San Francisco Bay Area Water
Emergency Transportation Authority (WETA) to support expanded ferry service,
including increased frequencies of existing routes and the operation of new routes.
Prior to receiving operating funds, WETA will adopt a plan that includes system-wide
and route-specific performance measures related to fare-box recovery, ridership and
any other measures as deemed appropriate by WETA, in consultation with MTC.

Regional Measure 3

Central Bridge Corridor Projects

San Francisco-Oakland Bay Bridge

O San Rafael Transit Center ($30 million)

0 Richmond-San Rafael Bridge Access Improvements ($210 million)
© Amtrak Capitol Corridor Improvements ($90 million)

O I-680/SR-4 Interchange Improvements ($210 million)

0 1-80 Transit Improvements in Contra Costa County ($25 million)
© AC Transit-Rapid Bus Improvements ($100 million)

O Brentwood Transit Center ($15 million)

0 Ferry Enhancement Program ($300 million)

	
	
	_ _T_ T_ _
	
	
	

O Core Capacity Transit Improvements ($140 million)

© 1-680 Transit Improvements ($10 million)

© Byron Highway-Vasco Road Airport Connector ($10 million)
© Vasco Road Safety Improvements ($15 million)

© Muni Fleet Expansion and Facilities ($140 million)

<D Caltrain Downtown Extension ($325 million)

© Transbay Rail Crossing ($50 million)

© Tri-Valley Transit Access Improvements ($100 million)

Public Transit Improvements

Caltrain Downtown Extension ($325 million)

Extend Caltrain from its current San Francisco terminus at Fourth and King Streets to the Transbay Transit Center.

Caltrain ridership
has grown over 80
percent since 2010.

Core Capacity Transit Improvements ($140 million)

Increase transit capacity to and within San Francisco through various strategies identified in the Core
Capacity Transit Study (2017), a joint effort conducted by five transit operators in coordination with the
Metropolitan Transportation Commission and the San Francisco County Transportation Authority. Priority
will be given to Alameda-Contra Costa Transit District (AC Transit) priorities identified in the study. Projects
include, but are not limited to, new transbay buses; bus priority infrastructure, such as traffic signal priority
for buses; queue bypass lanes; and bus stop relocations.

Muni Fleet Expansion and Facilities ($140 million)

Replace and expand the San Francisco Municipal Railway’s (also known as “Muni”) vehicle fleet and
associated facilities. Muni serves 44 percent of the 1.8 million regional public transit trips taken each day.

AC Transit Rapid Bus Corridor Improvements ($100 million)

Improve speed and reliability for key AC Transit bus lines, consistent with the Major Corridors Study (2016).
Improvements could include transit enhancements in the San Pablo Corridor, the Grand-MacArthur Corridor
and the East l4th/Mission Corridor.

The Plan leverages
funds approved in
the 2016 BART bond
to study and begin
design work on a new
transbay rail crossing.

Transbay Rail Crossing ($50 million)

To accommodate additional trains in the San Francisco-Oakland Bay Bridge corridor and its approaches,
fund studies, conceptual engineering, design, and operations and service plans for a second transbay rail
crossing to serve Bay Area Rapid Transit (BART) and other rail options.

Interstate 80 Transit Improvements ($25 million)

Support expanded bus service in the 1-80 corridor in Contra Costa County through the purchase of new
AC Transit and Western Contra Costa Transit Authority (WestCAT) transbay buses, expansion of bus storage
and maintenance facilities, and implementation of the San Pablo Avenue Multimodal Corridor.

Regional Measure 3

Southern Bridge Corridor Projects

Dumbarton and San Mateo-Hayward Bridges

	
	
	
	
	
	

Santa Clara

Note: Projects benefiting more than one
bridge corridor are shown on multiple maps.
_______________________________^________________

O Amtrak Capitol Corridor Improvements ($90 million)
© Ferry Enhancement Program ($300 million)

© Dumbarton Corridor Improvements ($130 million)

© U.S. 101/SR-92 Interchange ($50 million)

© I-680/SR-84 Interchange Reconstruction ($85 million)

© I-680/I-880/SR-262 Freeway Connector ($15 million)
© BART to San Jose (Phase 2) ($375 million)

© Eastridge to BART Regional Connector ($130 million)
© San Jose Diridon Station ($100 million)

Note: Tri-Valley Transit Access Improvements shown on Central
Corridor map, p.15.

Regional Measure 3

Southern Bridge Corridor
A. Public Transit Improvements

	
	
	
	
	
	

BART Extension to San Jose (Phase 2) ($375 million)

Extend Bay Area Rapid Transit (BART) from the Berryessa/North San Jose Station (expected to open in
summer 2018) to San Jose and Santa Clara. The project includes new stations in Alum Rock, downtown
San Jose, San Jose Diridon Station and Santa Clara.

Dumbarton Corridor Improvements ($130 million)

Fund planning, environmental review, design and construction of improvements in the Dumbarton Bridge
and rail corridor in Alameda and San Mateo counties to relieve congestion, improve people movement
through the corridor and offer reliable travel times. Eligible projects include, but are not limited to, projects
recommended in the 2016 Dumbarton Corridor Transportation Study led by SamTrans and improved
connections between BART, the Altamont Corridor Express and Capitol Corridor, including a rail connection
at Shinn Station.

San Jose Diridon Station ($100 million)

Expand Diridon Station to more efficiently and effectively accommodate existing rail service, future BART
and high-speed rail service, and Santa Clara Valley Transportation Authority (VTA) light rail and buses.

Since 2014, peak
delay approaching
the Dumbarton Bridge
during the morning
westbound commute
has doubled.

Eastridge to BART Regional Connector ($130 million)

Extend VTA’s light rail from Alum Rock to Eastridge Transit Center in San Jose, the transit system’s second
busiest transit center.

Tri-Valley Transit Access Improvements ($100 million)

Provide interregional and last-mile transit connections in the Interstate 580 corridor in the Tri-Valley area
of Dublin, Pleasanton and Livermore.

RM 3 funds BART’S
extension through
downtown San Jose
to Santa Clara.

B. Traffic Bottleneck Relief

Interstate 680/State Route 84 Interchange Reconstruction ($85 million)

Improve safety and regional and interregional connectivity by upgrading SR 84 from a two-lane highway
to a four-lane expressway between south of Ruby Hill Drive and the 1-680 interchange in southern Alameda
County and by implementing additional improvements between 1-680 and SR 84.

U.S. Highway 101/State Route 92 Interchange ($50 million)

Improve U.S. 101 and SR 92 interchange in San Mateo County, including reconfigured ramps and direct
connector ramps.

Interstate 680/lnterstate 880/Route 262 Freeway Connector ($15 million)

Connect 1-680 and 1-880 in southern Alameda County to improve traffic movement, reduce congestion,
and improve operations and safety.



Regional Measure 3	
	
Northern Bridge Corridor Projects  Antioch, Benicia-Martinez, Carquinez & Richmond-San Rafael Bridges	

O SMART Extension to Windsor and Healdsburg ($40 million)
0 North Bay Transit Access Improvements ($100 million)

O U.S. 101 Marin-Sonoma Narrows ($120 million)

O SR-37 Improvements ($100 million)

0 SR-29 Improvements ($20 million)

0 1-80 Westbound Truck Scales ($105 million)

O Amtrak Capitol Corridor Improvements ($90 million)

© I-80/I-680/SR-12 Interchange Improvements ($150 million)

0 Ferry Enhancement Program ($300 million)

© San Rafael Transit Center ($30 million)

0 Richmond-San Rafael Bridge Access Improvements ($210 million)

© 1-80 Transit Improvements in Contra Costa County ($25 million)

© I-680/SR-4 Interchange Improvements ($210 million)

© 1-680 Transit Improvements ($10 million)

© Brentwood Transit Center ($15 million)

Note: Vasco Road Safety Improvements and Byron Highway-Vasco Road
Airport Connector shown on Central Corridor map, p.15.

Regional Measure 3

Northern Bridge Corridor
A. Public Transit Improvements

	
	
	
	
	
	

North Bay Transit Access Improvements ($100 million)

Provide funding for transit improvements, such as new transit vehicles, transit facilities and access to transit
facilities, benefiting Contra Costa, Marin, Napa, Solano and Sonoma counties.

_________________________________________________________________________________________ The	Plan	invests	in

Sonoma-Marin Area Rail Transit District (SMART) Extension to Windsor
and Healdsburg ($40 million)

Extend the SMART rail system north of the Charles M. Schulz-Sonoma County Airport to Windsor
and Healdsburg.

San Rafael Transit Center ($30 million)

Construct a replacement to the San Rafael (Bettini) Transit Center in downtown San Rafael.

East Contra Costa (Brentwood) Transit Center ($15 million)

Fund the construction of a transit center in Brentwood, enhancing bus access to East Contra Costa BART
Extension Project (eBART) and Mokelumne Bike Trail/Pedestrian Overcrossing at state Route 4.

Interstate 680 Transit Improvements ($10 million)

Reduce travel time for express buses by funding a suite of improvements along the corridor, including
upgrades to the 1-680 shoulder to allow bus use during commute periods, enhanced real-time traveler
information and deployment of technology to manage parking at transit centers.

Peak delay on the
westbound morning
commute across the
Richmond-San Rafael
Bridge has tripled
since 2014.

transit and carpool
lanes in the North Bay
to provide alternatives
to driving alone.

B. Traffic Bottleneck Relief * •

Richmond-San Rafael Bridge Access Improvements ($210 million)

Fund eastbound and westbound improvements in the Richmond-San Rafael Bridge corridor, including:

•	A direct connector from northbound U.S. Highway 101 in Marin County to the Richmond-San
Rafael Bridge ($135 million)

•	Westbound bridge access improvements in Contra Costa County east of the toll plaza, including
upgrades to the Richmond Parkway interchange ($75 million)

Regional Measure 3

Interstate 680/State Route 4 Interchange Improvements ($210 million)

Improve the interchange to boost safety and reduce congestion on 1-680 and SR 4, including, but not limited
to, new direct connectors between the two freeways and widening of SR 4 to add auxiliary lanes and high-
occupancy vehicle (HOV) lanes.

	
	
	
	
	
	

Interstate 80/lnterstate 680/State Route 12 Interchange Project ($150 million)

Construct Red Top Road interchange and westbound 1-80 to southbound 1-680 connector to improve traffic
flow on Lopes Road and Fermi Road by realigning them to accommodate the future 1-680 changes.

U.S. Highway 101 Marin-Sonoma Narrows ($120 million)

Construct northbound and southbound HOV lanes on U.S. 101 in Marin and Sonoma counties by adding one
carpool lane in each direction.

The Plan invests in
state Route 37 in
Marin, Solano and
Sonoma counties to
reduce flooding risk
and traffic congestion.

Interstate 80 Westbound Truck Scales ($105 million)

Improve freight mobility, reliability and safety on the 1-80 corridor by funding improvements to the 1-80
Westbound Truck Scales in Solano County.

State Route 37 Improvements ($100 million)

Fund improvements to SR 37 to provide for mobility, safety and resiliency to sea-level rise and flooding.
The project includes the segment of SR 37 from the intersection with U.S. Highway 101 in Marin County
to the intersection with Interstate 80 in Solano County.

State Route 29 Improvements ($20 million)

Fund major intersection improvements on SR 29 to relieve congestion, enhance mobility and improve safety,
including improvements for Soscol Junction and between Cameros Highway (State Route 12/121) and
American Canyon Road.

RM 3 will add
new carpool lanes in
the Marin-Sonoma
Narrows on U.S.
Highway 101.

Vasco Road Safety Improvements ($15 million)

Complete the construction of safety improvements on Vasco Road in the most curvy and hilly section within
Contra Costa County. Funds will be used to complete a 2.5-mile median barrier and widen the existing
roadway to deliver safety improvements while maintaining the current number of travel lanes.

Byron Highway-Vasco Road Airport Connector ($10 million)

Constmct a new connector between Byron Highway and Vasco Road to provide a bypass for traffic (including
significant freight vehicles) around the community of Byron and to improve access to the Byron Airport.

The 1-680/SR 4
Interchange project
will increase capacity
to improve traffic
safety for this major
highway interchange.

Regional Measure 3

Other Provisions

	
	
	
	
	

New BART Inspector General

Subject to voter approval of Regional Measure 3 (RM 3), the Independent Office of the BART Inspector
General (IG) will be established to identify opportunities to improve the efficiency of BART operations and
delivery of capital projects, including toll-funded projects. If RM 3 is approved, the office would be funded by
an annual allocation of at least $1 million in toll revenue.

Amending the Plan

Recognizing the need for flexibility in a multibillion-dollar investment plan, funds may be reassigned within
the same bridge corridor if the original project secures alternate funding or encounters insurmountable
obstacles. These changes can occur only after the project sponsor is consulted and a public hearing is held.

RM 3 Leverages Local Matching Funds

Many projects in the Plan have received partial funding from local measures. A local agency may not
withdraw matching funds already committed to a project in the Plan unless the funds are needed to
pay for a critical safety or maintenance need, or to avoid cuts to transit service.

Two-Bridge Discount

Under RM 3, commuters (including carpoolers) who pay tolls electronically on two of the region’s seven
state-owned toll bridges (Antioch, Benicia-Martinez, Carquinez, Dumbarton, Richmond-San Rafael, San
Mateo-Hayward and San Francisco-Oakland Bay bridges) during commute hours will receive a 50 percent
discount on the RM 3 portion of the toll paid on the second crossing within a one-day period.

Toll Rate Adjustments

Subject to voter approval of RM 3, the Bay Area Toll Authority (BATA) would be authorized to index the RM 3
portion of the toll after it is fully phased in to keep pace with inflation. Revenue generated by indexing the
toll to inflation could be used to provide bridge maintenance and rehabilitation as well as supplemental
funding for the projects and programs in the Plan.

Delivery of the Plan

If RM 3 is approved by voters, revenues from the toll increase will be administered by BATA and the
Metropolitan Transportation Commission (MTC), as in RM 1 and RM 2. MTC is the transportation planning,
funding and coordinating agency for the San Francisco Bay Area. The governing boards of BATA and MTC are
the same and are comprised of appointees from each of the nine counties and other local officials, most of
whom are elected officials, as well as state and federal appointees.