Fiscal Impact Analysis of Utility Users’ Tax Initiative (Elections Code Section 9212)

Title of Initiative: “Stop the Utility Users’ Tax (“UUT’T

Analysis Prepared by:
City of Sierra Madre Staff

Introduction

Two Sierra Madre residents, Mr. Earl Richey and Mr. David McMonigle (Proponents) have
circulated a petition to have an initiative measure entitled, “Stop the Utility Users ’ Tea ” placed on
the ballot in an upcoming election. On January 12, 2016, the Sierra Madre City Clerk presented
her certification to the City Council that a sufficient number of valid voter signatures had been
collected in order to place the initiative measure on the ballot.

At that time, the City Council had two options:

1)	Pursuant to Elections Code (EC) Section 9212, order a report analyzing the impact of the
ordinance on municipal operations. Staff must present the report no later than 30 days after it is
ordered by the City Council. When the report is submitted to the City Council, the City Council
shall order an election.

2)	Pursuant to EC Section 1405(b), submit the ordinance, without alteration, to the voters at
the General Municipal Election to be held April 10,2018, direct the City Clerk to cause publication
of the entire test of the proposed ordinance in the sample ballot.

3)	Should the Council decide to forgo the ordering of a report analyzing the impact of the
ordinance on municipal operations (Pursuant to EC 9212), the Council had the option of scheduling
a special meeting, prior to January 15, 2016 to adopt the necessary resolutions to place the matter
on the April 12, 2016 ballot and direct the City Clerk to cause publication of the entire text of the
proposed ordinance in the sample ballot. The City Clerk would need to establish deadlines for
preparation of ballot arguments and rebuttal arguments.

On January 12, 2016, the City Council selected Option 1, and referred the initiative to staff for
preparation of a “30-day report” as outlined in Elections Code Section 9212 for an analysis on the
impacts and effects of the initiative ordinance and deferred the decision on the date the initiative
would go before the voters. If the Council had not referred the initiative for preparation of the 30-
day report, per the City Clerk, there was inadequate time to place the matter on the April 12, 2016
ballot. Additionally, the Proponents did not request a Special Election and pursuant to the
Elections Code, the Initiative would be placed on the April 2018 municipal election, unless the
Council calls for a special election.

This 30-day report was prepared by City staff and the City Attorney, and discusses the impacts
and effects of the initiative pursuant to Elections Code Section 9212. The 30-day report was
presented to the City Council on February 9, 2016, within the 30-day time frame.

This report has since been edited and updated to include information on the City’s current finances
and staffing levels.

Page 2 of 13

Measure D: Stop the Utility Users’ Tax Initiative, Updated Fiscal Impact Analysis

Full Text of the Initiative
“Stop the Utility Users’ Tax (“UUT”)” initiative, referred to herein as the “The Initiative”

Stop the Utility Users’ Tax (“UUT”)

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF Sierra Madre DO ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1. Findings and Declarations

WHEREAS, the people of the City of Sierra Madre find and declare that federal, state
and local taxation has reached confiscatory levels; that unrestrained spending and regulation at
all levels of government, are excessive, improvident, contrary to our rights as a free people and
are thereby destructive of Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness; and

WHEREAS, it is the intent and purpose of this initiative that the current City of Sierra
Madre utility taxes be repealed.

Section 2. Name of Measure and Effective Date

This measure shall be known as the Stop the Utility Users’ Tax and shall become
effective as provided by law.

Section 3. Repeal of Utility Tax

The existing Utility Users Tax as set forth in Chapter 3.36 of the Sierra Madre Municipal
Code is repealed in its entirety.

Section 4. Severability

The provisions of this initiative are severable. If any provision of this measure or
application thereof is held invalid, that invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications
if they can be given effect without the invalid provision or application.

Page 3 of 13

What the Initiative Does - From the Impartial Analysis

The City Attorney’s Impartial Analysis of the Initiative states:

Residents of Sierra Madre currently pay a Utility Users Tax (UUT) for water, gas and electricity
service. The current rate is 10%, which was approved by 71.5% of Sierra Madre voters in April
2016. The UUT is a general tax, where revenues are paid into the City's General Fund. General
Fund revenues are budgeted by the City Council annually for general City services, such as
police and fire protection, 9-1-1 emergency response, paramedics, parks, libraries, and street
maintenance and repairs. If approved by a majority of Sierra Madre voters, Measure "D" would
amend the City's Municipal Code by repealing the UUT on gas, electric and water service in its
entirety.

This measure is on the ballot because a number of residents circulated a petition and obtained
sufficient signatures to qualify for the ballot under California Elections law. Therefore, the City
Council placed this Measure on the ballot. If the measure is approved, the General Fund will no
longer receive UUT revenues resulting in a loss of approximately $2.6 million per year,
representing a loss of 24% of the City's annual General Fund budget. The UUT is the City's
second largest source of General Fund revenue (24%) after property taxes.

If the UUT is repealed, there would be a significant impact on the City's ability to provide
services and programs at current levels. The City Council will have to decide, as part of the
budgeting process, whether alternative revenues can be found, or whether City services and
programs will have to be reduced or eliminated. Options to offset this potential revenue loss were
considered in the Elections Code Section 9212 report approved by the City Council on February
9, 2016 which included: contracting out police services; eliminating locally controlled paramedic
program; reducing Planning counter services to 2 hours per day, four days a week; reducing
sidewalk and street repair and maintenance, eliminating most City special events, City programs
and Senior programs; and reduce library program and hours by 50%.

For a more detailed discussion of the potential impacts of Measure "D", we refer you via the
hyperlinks below to the Staffs impartial reports to the City Council. February 9, 2016 Report:

http://cityofsierramadre.hosted.civichve.com/common/pages/DisplayFile.aspx7itemRN2547338

Measure "D" requires simple majority approval of the voters to pass.

A "Yes" vote on Measure "D" will repeal the Utility Users Tax, and eliminate the General Fund
revenue source.

A "No" vote on Measure "D" will not repeal the Utility Users Tax and will maintain the existing
tax and the General Fund revenue source it provides.

Page 4 of 13

Financial Impact

Total UUT Revenue Loss

At the current UUT rate of 10%, the City’s Fiscal Year 2017/2018 Budget estimates a total of
$2,600,000 will be collected which is 24% of the City’s entire General Fund budget. Using the
current fiscal year as an example, if the voters approve Stop the Utility Users ’ Tax, the $2,600,000
in revenue will not be received, and it will be necessary to reduce expenditures or increase revenues
to achieve a balanced General Fund budget.

Addressing the Financial Impact

As explained in this report, the financial impact on the City’s overall General Fund budget is
significant. This fiscal year, the UUT is projected to provide 24% of General Fund Revenues as
the second largest General Fund revenue source. In order to balance the General Fund budget, due
to the loss of UUT revenues, all General Fund activities and services would need to be scrutinized
to determine the most appropriate activities to be eliminated, contracted out, or reduced.

No Action Option

The option to take no action would require that the City fund the $2.6M revenue loss by using
General Fund Reserves. The estimated 2017-18 Fiscal Year funds available in the General Fund
(General Fund Reserves) including committed, unassigned and assigned reserves is $6,658,475.
If no action is taken to reduce expenditures or to find a replacement revenue, reserves would be
used in the amount of approximately $2,600,000 annually. At this amount, the City’s reserves
would be fully depleted in two and one half years. Additionally, there would be no funding for
emergencies, such as natural disasters. The City Council prioritized a 50% reserve fund balance
policy in order to ensure the government can respond in the case of emergencies and natural
disasters. “No action” is not a sustainable option.

Reduce Operating Costs Option

The City could reduce General Fund costs to offset the loss of UUT revenue. The magnitude of a
$2.6 million reduction is significant; the options for reducing costs are limited to general fund
departments—departments such as public safety, which are critical to the health, safety, and well-
being of Sierra Madre residents. The “reduce” option would result in major service level
disruptions and significant changes in how services are provided, such as contracting or
outsourcing city operations.

Generate Additional Revenue Option

A third option of addressing the revenue loss resulting from the passage of the Initiative would be
to enact new revenue enhancement measures. These options are likewise limited, with most
revenue sources requiring voter approval prior to implementation.

Should expenditure reductions, revenue enhancements, or some combination of the two be
insufficient to equal the loss in UUT revenues ($2,600,000), the inevitable result will be the
eventual depletion of General Fund reserves, potentially leading to disincorporation or bankruptcy.

Page 5 of 13

Potential Impact on City Operations (Reduction of Expenses)

General Fund-Restricted Funds

The City’s fiscal year begins on July 1st and ends on June 30th. The current fiscal year began on
July 1, 2017 and ends on June 30, 2018. The current fiscal year budget numbers are used
throughout this report whenever possible because they reflect the most accurate financial
information available at this time and they reflect the City Council’s current, approved financial
direction, programs and policies.

It may be helpful to explain what is meant by the General Fund, since the term is used frequently
in this report. There are General Funds and Restricted Funds. Any services that cannot be funded
with Restricted Funds must be funded with General Funds. Restricted Funds, as the term implies,
may only be used for specific, restricted purposes. Restricted Funds are not available to be used
for any purpose the City Council desires. Examples of Restricted Funds include: Gas Tax,
Proposition A, Proposition C, Water Revenue, Sewer Revenue, and grant funding that cannot be
used to fund anything other than what the grantor designates. Some Restricted Fund uses are
designated by the voters (Gas Tax, Proposition money); while other Restricted Funds can only be
used for the purpose for which they are collected (Water or Sewer Funds). For example, Water
Funds, collected on residents’ water bills, cannot be utilized to fund the purchase of a fire engine
or funding of police services; these funds can only be used for water related purposes.

General Funds can be used for any municipal purpose. General Funds can be used for the general
operations of the City and to fund basic City services such as Police, Library, Fire, and recreational
services. Examples of revenue sources for General Funds include: Property Taxes, UUT, Sales
Taxes, Fees, and Business Licenses. Sierra Madre is dependent upon Property Taxes and UUT for
more than 79% of its General Fund revenues, unlike other cities that receive more revenues from
Sales Taxes. Sierra Madre receives less than 3% of General Fund revenues from Sales Taxes.

Chart 1, below, provides a summary of General Fund Revenue sources.

Chart 1.

2017-18 REVENUE SOURCES		
All Other Sources,		
18%		
Sales Tax, 3%		Property Taxes, 55%  I
UUT, 24%		

Page 6 of 13

Measure D: Stop the Utility Users’ Tax Initiative, Updated Fiscal Impact Analysis

The City’s total budget for Fiscal Year 2017-2018 is $24,169,400; of this amount $11,035,700 is
from the General Fund, all other resources are in Restricted Funds (Special Revenue Funds,
Internal Services Funds, Enterprise Funds, Capital Projects Funds, and Successor Agency Funds).
Nearly 54% of the City’s budget is found in Restricted Funds; 46% comes from the General Fund.

The City’s General Fund revenues are limited relative to the budget as a whole, because of this
every effort is made to reduce or eliminate General Fund expenses, or to fund services under
Restricted Funding sources, to the extent allowed by law. Many staff positions and operational
costs are fully- or partially-funded through Restricted Funds. Only those staff positions and
operational costs that cannot be provided under Restricted Funds are allocated to the General Fund.

The UUT is a General Fund revenue source, and as such, it is necessary for reductions in City
operational costs to come from the General Fund. Savings realized through reductions in
Restricted Fund expenditures cannot be transferred to General Fund uses; and to the extent
possible, eligible City operational expenses have already been allocated to Restricted Funds. This
means that the $2.6 million in reductions needs to be taken from the $11,035,700 General Fund
portion of the budget. Instead of an across-the-board reduction, the reduction in expenditures
necessary to meet $2.6 million in lost revenue, will equal a 24% reduction from the General Fund.

As noted, in Chart 2 below, the largest single area of expenditure from the General Fund is for the
Sierra Madre Police Department which expends $3,590,900, 33% of all General Fund revenues.
The other large departments in the City’s General Fund include the Fire Department ($2,030,500
General Fund expenditures, 18%), and the City Library ($797,300 General Fund Expenditures,
7%). In total these departments are responsible for $6,418,700 of the total General Fund uses of
11,035,700 or 58%. Public Safety (Police and Fire) combined account for more than $5.6M or
51% of the total General Fund budget.

Chart 2.

GF Expenditures by Budget

$4,517,000			
			
$3,590,900			
			

Police

$2,030,500

■

$797,300

I

Fire	Library

All Other GF
Departments

GF Expenditures by Percent

Considering the possible financial impact if the UUT is eliminated and the need to balance the
budget, reducing General fund expenditures by $2.6 million could mean the entire elimination of

Page 7 of 13

some departments, and/or significant service level reductions, or changes to the way City services
are provided (such as contracting City services to achieve savings).

Obtaining a reduction in General Fund Expenditures of $2.6 million, while preserving all Public
Safety services would necessitate a 48% reduction in all General Fund expenses outside of Police
and Fire. Unfortunately many of the costs outside of Public Safety departments are not
discretionary and include items like State mandates, debt obligations, capital outlays, and
maintenance and operations. A reduction of $2.6 million to the General Fund while keeping
Public Safety intact is not possible.

The next section of this analysis provides an explanation, including the financial impacts of
possible cost reduction measures. If the UUT Repeal Measure is approved, and funding from the
City’s General Fund is eliminated, the City Council will determine if some, or all, of the
proposed reductions should be enacted.

Financial Impact Analysis of the General Fund

The figures (Figures 1-4), starting on page 9 below, shows the dollar reduction for Police, Fire,
Library, and Community Services as well as the revenue which would be lost with the changes to
each department. In total the reductions, accounting for lost UUT revenue, and displayed in
Chart 3 below, in these departments would be approximately $1,687,000. This is determined by
subtracting the total potential estimated lost revenue ($909,000) from the total saved by reducing
services ($2,596,000). If each of these reductions is enacted, the total savings to the General
Fund will be $1,687,000. The remaining necessary reductions of $913,000, represent nearly 9%
of the General Fund budget, and would be distributed across the General Fund departments.

This distribution would mean, in addition to the reductions outlined below, all other General
Fund departments would need to reduce expenditures by more than 20%.

Chart 3.

Required Reductions if Measure D is Approved ($2.6)

Page 8 of 13

Measure D: Stop the Utility Users’ Tax Initiative, Updated Fiscal Impact Analysis

Financial Impact Analysis of Reductions to General Fund Departments: Police, Fire,

Library, and Community Services

Sierra Madre Police Department

The reductions to the Police Department, outlined in Figure 1 below, include eliminating 6 of the
City’s 10 Police Officer positions, all 4 of the Sergeant Positions, and an assumption that Police
Dispatch would be outsourced eliminating all 4 full-time dispatch employees. In addition to this,
a portion of the City’s part-time patrol officers would also be laid-off as necessary, based on the
$909,000 in cuts which are not yet identified and may not be able to be absorbed by other means.

These changes would reduce Police patrols by more than 60%. Currently the City is patrolled by
2 officers and 1 Sergeant every day, 24 hours a day. Moving forward with these reductions
would mean 1 officer will patrol the city with no assistance, backup, or supervision.

Due to these staffing reductions necessitated by loss of UUT revenue, the City would also lose
two additional revenue sources that the Police Department presently relies upon. The first
additional revenue source is the State Public Safety Augmentation grant which is awarded to the
City and transferred into the General Fund. This grant requires a “maintenance of service” of
police operations meaning it cannot supplant funds already being spent on service or “fill-in” for
reduced funding. The second area is the expected lost revenue from parking permits as well as
citations which officers write, resulting from loss of enforcement due to personnel reductions.
Traffic enforcement, parking enforcement, and other items which could be cited will not rise to
primary importance for an officer’s patrol should the City go from 3 sworn personnel patrolling
at all times to 1 sworn personnel patrolling in Sierra Madre. It is possible some of the $220,000
in revenues could be maintained, however, for this exercise an assumption is made the revenue
would likely be lost.

After laying off 10 sworn personnel, dramatically reducing patrols and enforcement, and
outsourcing dispatch, the total General Fund savings is anticipated to be $1,050,000.

Figure 1.

Police Department Reductions		
Officers	$	670,000
Sergeants	$	600,000
Dispatch* (outsource)	$	100,000
Subtotal Reductions	$	1,370,000
		
Police Department Lost Revenue		
Public Safety Augmentation	$	100,000
Enforcement*	$	220,000
Subtotal Lost Revenue	$	320,000
		
Grand Total Police	$ 1,050,000	

Page 9 of 13

Sierra Madre Fire Department:

The reductions in the Fire Department, outlined in Figure 2 below, consists of eliminating the
Ambulance and EMS from the Sierra Madre Fire Department. The service reduction would
eliminate the equivalent of 6 Fire Fighter-Medic positions. If these services were provided by a
contracted partner or the County, it is possible, perhaps likely, the responding ambulance would
not be dispatched from Sierra Madre, which could dramatically increase response times.

Currently the Sierra Madre Fire Department provides Advanced Life Support (ALS) services to
all ambulance calls and arrives in approximately 3 minutes and 30 seconds. Response times for
ambulance services from outside of Sierra Madre would comply with the County response time
requirements and would be no more than 8 minutes and 59 seconds.

In 2016 SMFD responded to nearly 800 ambulance calls within approximately 3 minutes and 30
seconds.

The expected revenue loss in the Fire Department comes from the loss in billing receipts paid for
paramedic services as well as the cancellation of the City’s “subscription” service which protects
subscribers (residents) from being responsible for payments outside of what insurance covers.

After laying off all employed paramedic personnel and eliminating ambulance service in its
entirety in Sierra Madre, the General Fund savings is anticipated to be $96,000.

Figure 2.

Fire Department Reductions	
Paramedic (FY2016-17) |	$ 393,000
	
Subtotal Reductions	$ 393,000
Fire Department Lost Revenue	
Paramedic	$297,000
	
Subtotal Lost Revenue	$ 297,000
Grand Total Fire	$ 96,000

Updated Fiscal Impact Report

Page 10 of 13

Sierra Madre Library:

The reductions in the Library, outlined in Figure 3 below, consist of reducing the operating hours
to one day per week, initially, and then placing a ballot initiative on the next regularly scheduled
election to close the Library entirely, as State law requires a vote of the people prior to the
closure of an operating Library. During the one-day-per-week operations all activities and
events would be eliminated, as well as programs focused on Science, Technology, Engineering,
Arts, and Math (STEAM). In addition, the access to the Archives, collections and technology
would be drastically reduced.

Due to the reductions in Library staffing, the resulting expected loss of additional revenue comes
from the loss of donations, fundraisers, and the efforts of the Friends of the Library.

After laying off all full-time staff, eliminating programs and activities, and drastically reducing
public access the General Fund savings is expected to be $405,000.

Figure 3.

Library Reductions	
Operations (1 Day) |	| $ 625,000
	
Subtotal Reductions	$ 625,000
Library Lost Revenue	
Donations + Friends	$ 220,000
	
Subtotal Lost Revenue	$ 220,000
Grand Total Library	$ 405,000

Page 11 of 13

Community Services Department:

The reductions in Community Services, as outlined in Figure 4 below, would consist of
completely eliminating the department and all full-time and part-time positions. The elimination
of this department would also mean the cancellation of the following events and traditions: Mt.
Wilson Trail Race and Kids Fun Run, Huck Finn Fishing Derby & Family Campout, Concerts in
the Park (10 Performances), Movies in the Park (6 Films), Halloween Happenings & Downtown
Trick-or-Treating; and all Summer Fun in the Park Programs. In addition, the City would no
longer be able to support or sponsor the Wistaria Festival or the 3rd & 4th of July Festivities.

Due to the elimination of Community Services, the expected loss of additional revenue comes
from event registrations, fundraisers, donations, sponsorships, and charges for service.

After eliminating all community events the anticipated General Fund savings is anticipated to be
$136,000.

_______________________Figure 4.______________________

_____________Community	Services Reductions____________

Dept. Elimination	|	$	208,000

Subtotal Reductions__________________$	208,000

___________Community	Services	Revenue_________

Special Events	$	72,000

Subtotal Lost Revenue_____________$___72,000

Grand Total Community Services $ 136,000

Page 12 of 13

Ongoing Operations with 0% UUT

This analysis provides details on potential impacts should the City lose its second largest revenue
source. There may be other ways to reduce services to reach the necessary $2.6 million, but each
scenario will result in significant loss of services to the community. The cuts to the various
departments are so severe that the departments are either eliminated like Community Services, or
reduced to such a significant extent, like Police and Fire, that the proper organizational controls
and oversight are no longer feasible, which could lead to increased liabilities in the long-term, and
potentially no longer complying with state mandates or other governmental or contractual
requirements.

After implementing all of the options above, an additional $900,000 in reductions would still be
necessary, causing an additional 20% reduction in all other General Fund departments.
Furthermore, costs will continue to increase and the City will need to continually look for ways to
reduce expenditures or find another revenue source. Should expenditure reductions and/or revenue
enhancements fail to meet the loss in UUT revenues, the inevitable result will be the eventual
depletion of General Fund reserves, potentially leading to disincorporation or bankruptcy.

Updated Fiscal Impact Report

Page 13 of 13

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE D

RECEIVED

Vote NO on Measure D.

JAN 2 9 2018

CITY OF SIERRA MADRE

In 2016, respected leaders in Sierra Madre, organizations throughout the community, and 72% of Sierra Madre
voters approved the current UUT rates, which cannot increase without a vote of the people.

The proposed UUT Repeal, if approved, will undo this vote by taking away 24% ($2.6M) of the entire General
Fund of the City. This drastic and extreme cut would result in the inevitable dismantling of the City as we know
it, including the following possibilities:

-	REDUCTION or ELIMINATION of our Fire Department and Paramedic Services, resulting in
SLOWER RESPONSE for victims of heart attacks, strokes, car accidents, fires, or other emergencies;

-	REDUCTION of our Police Force by more than 60% and elimination of 6 officers, risking our public
safety;

-	ELIMINATION of community events and services, such as the Mt. Wilson Trail Race, 4th of July
Parade, Wistaria Festival, Concerts & Movies in the Park, and senior activities;

-	REDUCTION of library services with only 1-2 days of service; and

-	REDUCTION in general fund dollars dedicated to fixing potholes, sidewalks, streets, and other
infrastructure.

Who supports this misguided and poorly written initiative on our ballot? An out-of-town political extremist
group that failed to pass this same measure on the ballot in several cities is now targeting Sierra Madre. These
outsiders do not care about our City’s needs or how Measure D will hurt our neighborhoods, quality of life, and
property values.

As Sierra Madre residents, we enjoy living in a safe, quiet city, and we will not compromise this great
community because of outside political and ideological agendas.

To leam more about the negative effects of Measure D, please visit:

www.sierramadreusa.com
Please join us in Voting NO on Measure D.

Sierra Madre Ballot Statement in Favor of Measure D
"Stop the Utility Users Tax"

JAN 1 7 2018
CITY OF SIERRA MADRE

Sierra Madre faces a grave fiscal crisis that many residents are not aware of. Neither
the City Council nor the staff has adequately reported Sierra Madre's dire fiscal
situation caused by growing debt, chronic overspending and increasing taxes.

Although Sierra Madre's population has not changed in 10 years, the General Fund
from 2006 - 2016 grew an astonishing 55% from $6.1 million to $9.4 million while
total city revenues grew 25% from $17.5 million to $21.4 million.

The City claims to have tried to reduce employee compensation, yet in 2016, 36% of
full time employees earned over $100,000 in pay and benefits. (Source

www.transparentcalifornia.coml.

The Big Story is our burgeoning pension debt. Sierra Madre residents are on the
hook for paying city employees up to 90% of their salaries for the rest of their lives.
Sierra Madre's pension debt is officially over $10 million. But the real number,
according to Stanford Institute for Economic Research, could be as much as $40
million, 185% of the city’s total annual budget. (Source: www.pensiontracker.org)
Government elites enjoy pay, pensions and job security the average taxpayer can
only dream about. This city, like other cities in California, is on the brink of
insolvency.

We do not need the 10% utility tax voted in in 2016. The City needs to get spending
under control. The City must move employees to 401(k) retirement plans and pay
off the pension debt.

Give taxpayers the reh^pmeylieed and VOTE YES to Stop the Utility Users Tax.

Earl Richey
Real Estate Investor
Proponent of Measure D
Sieffa MaHre"

David McMonigle
Marketing Executive
Proponent of Measure D
Sierra Madre Resident