IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL
COUNTY OF SANTA BARBARA
MEASURE T2018

This Measure was placed on the ballot by the Board of
Supervisors of the County of Santa Barbara (County),
which is the governing board of the County.

If approved by a majority vote of the voters voting on the
Measure, this Measure authorizes the County to impose a
tax on cannabis operations within the unincorporated area
of the County. The tax would be imposed pursuant to Cal.
Rev. & Tax. Code Section 34021.5, as may be amended.

Pursuant to the Ordinance, every person who engages in
cannabis operations, including the cultivating,
manufacturing, producing, processing, preparing, storing,
providing, donating, selling, or distributing cannabis or
cannabis products within the unincorporated area of the
County would pay to the County Treasurer-Tax Collector a
tax on the gross receipts of each of their operation’s
activities involving cannabis or cannabis products, as
follows:

1.	Nursery: 1% of gross receipts; and

2.	Distributor (excluding Distributor Transport Only):
1 % of gross receipts; and

3.	Manufacturing: 3% of gross receipts; and

4.	Cultivation: 4% of gross receipts; and

5.	Retail: 6% of gross receipts; and

6.	Microbusiness: 6% of gross receipts.

The tax would be a general tax as authorized by California
Constitution Article XIII C Section 2 and Cal. Gov. Code
Section 53723 as may be amended. As a general tax, the
revenue generated may be used for any general
governmental purpose.

/s/ Michael C. Ghizzoni
County Counsel

February 26, 2018

FISCAL IMPACT STATEMENT BY COUNTY
AUDITOR-CONTROLLER
MEASURE T2018

The passage of this measure would allow for the taxation
of cannabis operations in the unincorporated area of the
County of Santa Barbara (“County”). The measure would
establish a cannabis operations tax on the gross receipts
of medical and non-medical cannabis businesses
operating within the unincorporated area of the County.
Different tax rates would apply to the gross receipts from
cannabis operations depending on the business license
type. The business license types and the respective tax
rates on their gross receipts are as follows: Nursery at
1%, Distributor at 1% (excluding Distributor Transport
Only), Manufacturing at 3%, Cultivation at 4%, Retail at
6%, and Microbusiness at 6%. The tax revenue
generated would be available for general governmental
purposes.

Fiscal impacts associated with this measure include
increased unrestricted General Fund revenue from the
cannabis operations tax paid to the County and
increased General Fund expenditures for costs related
to tax collection and administration. These revenues and
costs depend on a number of unpredictable variable
factors, making them difficult to project. These variable
factors include the number and type of cannabis
businesses regulated by the County, consumer demand
for cannabis, competition from cannabis businesses
located in other jurisdictions and the market price of
cannabis. All of these factors may change over time.

Based on a consultant’s study of the commercial
cannabis industry in the County, estimated revenues
from the cannabis operations tax could range from
approximately $6.7 million to approximately $29.6 million
annually. This estimate considers the County’s
established cannabis operators, the number of State
issued licenses in the County and a wide range of both
market price and production estimates. Actual General
Fund revenues may be significantly different depending
on the variable factors noted above.

Increases to General Fund expenditures also are
uncertain, however, the County Treasurer-Tax Collector
estimates annual expenditure increases of
approximately $1.0 million for costs of tax collection and
administration based on increased contractual
expenditures and the hiring of four new positions. These
costs would be funded by general County revenues.

/s/Theodore A. Fallati, C.P.A.
County Auditor-Controller

SR 006-30

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
MEASURE T2018
COUNTY OF SANTA BARBARA

Voters in Santa Barbara County overwhelmingly supported Proposition
64, which legalized recreational cannabis and passed in November
2016 with 62% approval of County voters voting on the proposition. It is
one of the few measures to gain voter approval in all 8 cities in our
county.

Following legalization, the Santa Barbara County Board of Supervisors
embarked on a year-long process to review land use, public safety,
environmental and other issues. After more than 27 public hearings, the
Board adopted an ordinance that includes buffer zones around schools,
residential neighborhoods and other sensitive areas, and mandates
odor control.

With legalization comes needed enforcement, education and other
services. Santa Barbara County needs to tax cannabis growers and
businesses to wenforce our ordinance and fund other priorities such as
the Sheriffs Department, District Attorney’s office, mental health
services, public health and other general services.

Opponents will claim that the money will simply go into the general fund.
What they won’t tell you is that the general fund is what funds all of the
critical departments listed above.

Whether you agree with the legalization of cannabis or not, it is
imperative that we tax the industry to ensure compliance and to
eradicate the black market.

Please join us in supporting Measure T to ensure that cannabis
operators pay their fair share.

The undersigned proponent(s) or author(s) of the primary argument in
favor of Ballot Measure T2018 at the Statewide Direct Primary Election
for Santa Barbara County to be held on June 5, 2018, hereby state that
such argument is true and correct to the best of his knowledge and
belief.

Isl Das Williams	2/27/18

Chair of the Board of Supervisors, on behalf of the Board of Supervisors,
County of Santa Barbara

REBUTTAL TO THE ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
MEASURE T2018
COUNTY OF SANTA BARBARA

The proponents say the County embarked on a year-long process to
review issues surrounding countywide marijuana grows.

The two cities most impacted by marijuana operators in our County,
Carpinteria, and Goleta, oppose the regulatory framework the County
adopted to mitigate impacts from marijuana grows.

Opposing Measure-T isn’t about opposing the legalization of Marijuana.
It has solely to do with demanding our politicians be accountable by
specifying how they will spend future new taxes.

Might the taxes from Measure-T be used for public safety and code
enforcement? Maybe...

Problem: The County recently lowered assessed values on 53
properties due to the Thomas Fire totaling $163 million. Several more
coastal properties will also be reassessed downward due to Montecito’s
mudslide. The cost to rebuild Montecito is expected to exceed $50
million.

The County ALREADY had a $50 million structural deficit!

Should we believe more no-strings taxes will be spent protecting
neighborhoods from added crime and odors associated with pot grows?
The politicians will spend the taxes how they always do, on employee
salaries and benefits.

We should tax commercial pot-qrows to protect neighborhoods from
odors and families from the black market of organized crime.

That’s why these funds MUST be earmarked for police protection, law
enforcement, and code compliance. A general tax doesn’t compel
that.

Demand our politicians come back with list of health and safety
priorities, and other essential uses; funded and protected via a special
tax.

Don’t gamble with the quality of life, health, or safety of county residents.

The undersigned author(s) of the rebuttal to the argument in favor of
Measure T2018 at the Statewide Direct Primary Election for Santa
Barbara County to be held on June 5, 2018, hereby state that such
argument is true and correct to the best of our knowledge and belief.

Isl Peter Adam	March	12,2018

4TH District County Supervisor

Isl Joe Armendariz	March	12,2018

Executive Director, SB County Taxpayers Association

SR 006-31

ARGUMENT AGAINST	REBUTTAL	TO	ARGUMENT	AGAINST

MEASURE T2018	MEASURE	T2018

COUNTY OF SANTA BARBARA	COUNTY	OF	SANTA	BARBARA

We oppose Measure T-2018. To begin with, by requiring our politicians
tell us exactly how they’ll spend new taxes protects taxpayers by
creating accountability and transparency. However, this requirement
doesn’t exist with a “General-Tax". Consequently, general-taxes have
zero taxpayer protections, and no accountability.

Measure T is another new tax SUPPOSEDLY to be used mitigating
public safety impacts from commercial pot-grows in our county. In fact,
it’s another blank check to be spent on general county services. The
county is so mired in debt, any additional revenues will likely be
squandered maintaining the status-quo, because the Board of
Supervisors refuse to address its structural deficit, especially in the
employee pension program.

The County faces a $50 million deficit due to misplaced spending
priorities. Another blank check will result in more wasteful spending
without the critical taxpayer protections we deserve.

We believe Santa Barbara County should tax commercial pot-grows to
protect families from the black market of organized crime, including
foreign drug cartels which these pot-grows often attract.

That is why we need these funds specifically earmarked for police-
protection, and law-enforcement. We need best management practices
to protect neighborhoods impacted by commercial pot-grows; which
means much stronger code-compliance and better code-enforcement.

A “Specific-Tax” spent on specific priorities would pass if the politicians
offered you the opportunity to approve it. But they didn’t do that because
they want to spend the money how they want it spent, not how we want
it spent.

Sav NO to another blank-check by voting NO on another general-
tax increase. Demand our politicians come back with a carefully thought
out list of priorities, and responsible uses; funded and protected via a
special-tax.

Let’s not gamble with our quality of life and the public health and safety
of Santa Barbara County’s residents.

The undersigned proponent(s) or author(s) of the primary argument
against Ballot Measure T2018 at the Statewide Direct Primary Election
for Santa Barbara County to be held on June 5, 2018, hereby state that
such argument is true and correct to the best of his/her/their knowledge
and belief.

Isl Peter L. Adam	2/28/18

Santa Barbara County Supervisor

Isl Joe Armendariz	2/28/18

Executive Director, SB County Taxpayers Association

Isl Susan L. Brown	2/28/18

Sergeant, Santa Barbara County Sheriffs Department (Retired)

/s/Tobe Plough	2/28/18

Long Time Montecito Resident

Unless you are a cannabis cultivator or user, you will not pay one cent
of this tax!

Now it is up to voters to decide if cannabis cultivators should pay their
fair share to ensure proper, and proactive, enforcement on the
industry; education on the use of cannabis, including drug and mental
health programs; and increased need for public safety officers.

Once collected, the “general tax” will become a part of the general
fund. Over 50% of the County's General Fund goes to public safety.
As noted above, many other services will be needed to offset the
effects of cannabis. The General Fund is what pays for all these
services.

The question being asked of you on June 5th is simple: do you
support cannabis cultivators paying their fair share to offset the
impacts of the development of the industry? The answer is clear: Vote
yes on Measure T.

The undersigned author(s) of the Rebuttal to Argument Against Ballot
Measure T2018 at the Statewide Direct Primary Election for the
County of Santa Barbara to be held on June 5, 2018, hereby state
that such argument is true and correct to the best of his/her/their
knowledge and belief.

Isl Das Williams	March	12, 2018

First District Supervisor, Santa Barbara County

Isl Steve Lavagnino	March	12,2018

Fifth District Supervisor, Santa Barbara County

SR 006-32

FULL TEXT
MEASURE T2018
COUNTY OF SANTA BARBARA

Proposed Ordinance for a General Tax on Cannabis Operations

ORDINANCE NO. 5026

ORDINANCE OF THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS OF THE COUNTY OF SANTA BARBARA ADDING CHAPTER
50A TO THE SANTA BARBARA COUNTY CODE IMPOSING A TAX ON CANNABIS OPERATIONS

The Board of Supervisors of the County of Santa Barbara finds that cannabis related businesses should pay a
taxon the privilege of cultivating, manufacturing, producing, processing, preparing, storing, providing, donating, selling,
or distributing cannabis or cannabis products by commercial cannabis businesses in the unincorporated area of the
County, pursuant to the state “Medicinal and Adult-Use Cannabis Regulation and Safety Act” (MAUCRSA), specifically
Division 10 (commencing with Section 26000) of the Business and Professions Code, as may be amended, or other
enabling legislation.

The Board of Supervisors of the County of Santa Barbara adopts the following changes to the Santa Barbara
County Code under authority of Section 2 of Article XIII C of the Constitution of the State of California, California
Government Code Section 53723, and California Revenue and Taxation Code Section 34021.5, as may be amended.

The Board of Supervisors of the County of Santa Barbara ordains as follows:

SECTION ONE:

The Board of Supervisors hereby enacts and adopts a new Chapter 50A, titled “Tax on Cannabis Operations,” of the
Santa Barbara County Code imposing a gross receipts tax on cannabis operations, as follows:

CHAPTER 50A - TAX ON CANNABIS OPERATIONS

Section 50A-1 - Amount of Tax.

Section 50A-2 - Definitions.

Section 50A-3 - Determining Gross Receipts Tax.

Section 50A-4 - General Tax

Section 50A-5 - Tax Due Dates and Delinquencies.

Section 50A-6 - Actions to Collect.

Section 50A-7 - Quarterly Reports.

Section 50A-8 - Recordkeeping Required, Audit and Examination of Records.

Section 50A-9 - Tax Estimates Rendered by Treasurer-Tax Collector.

Section 50A-10 - Appeal from Determination of Treasurer-Tax Collector.

Section 50A-11 - Refunds.

Section 50A-12 - Exemptions from Tax.

Section 50A-13 - Apportionment.

Section 50A-14 - Constitutionality and Legality.

Section 50A-15 - Other Licenses, Permits, Taxes, Fees, or Charges.

Section 50A-16 - Change of Ownership.

Section 50A-17 - Payment of Taxes Does Not Authorize Unlawful Business and/or Operation.
Section 50A-18 - Administration of Tax.

Section 50A-19 - Severability.

Section 50A-20 - Timeframes.

SR 006-33

Section 50A-21 - Remedies Cumulative.

Section 50A-22 - Amendment or Repeal.

CHAPTER 50A - TAX ON CANNABIS OPERATIONS

Section 50A-1 - Amount of Tax.

a)	Every person who engages in cannabis operations, including the cultivating, manufacturing, producing, processing,
preparing, storing, providing, donating, selling, or distributing cannabis or cannabis products within the
unincorporated area of the County shall pay to the County Treasurer-Tax Collector a tax on the gross receipts of
each of their operation’s activities involving cannabis or cannabis products, whether cultivating, manufacturing,
producing, processing, preparing, storing, providing, donating, selling, distributing, or otherwise, computed as
follows:

1.	Nursery: 1% of gross receipts; and

2.	Distributor (excluding Distributor Transport Only): 1% of gross receipts; and

3.	Manufacturing: 3% of gross receipts; and

4.	Cultivation: 4% of gross receipts; and

5.	Retail: 6% of gross receipts; and

6.	Microbusiness: 6% of gross receipts.

These taxes shall be paid on transfers between each operation listed in subsections 1 through 6 above,

regardless of whether the activity is undertaken individually, collectively, or cooperatively, and regardless of

whether the activity is for compensation or gratuitous.

b)	Pursuant to California Constitution Article XIII C Section 2 and California Government Code Section 53739, as may
be amended, the Board of Supervisors may later determine to adjust the tax rates and impose them at any rates that
are less than or equal to the maximum rates authorized by this ordinance, and subsequently may restore the rates
to any rates up to the maximum rates authorized by this ordinance.

Section 50A-2 - Definitions.

For purposes of this Chapter, the following terms are defined to mean:

a) Cannabis. All parts of the plant Cannabis sativa Linnaeus, Cannabis indica, or Cannabis ruderalis, whether
growing or not; the seeds thereof; the resin extracted from any part of the plant; and every compound,
manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of the plant, its seeds or resin, including, but not limited to,
separated resin. Cannabis also means medical and non-medical marijuana. Cannabis does not include industrial
hemp, as defined in Section 11018.5 of the Health and Safety Code, as may be amended.

b)	Cultivation. Any activity involving the planting, growing, harvesting, processing, drying, curing, or trimming of
cannabis, as well as grading of land pursuant to Division 10 (commencing with Section 26000) of the California
Business and Professions Code, as may be amended. Cultivation includes outdoor cultivation, indoor cultivation,
and mixed light cultivation and processors.

c)	Distributor or Distribution or Distribution Facility. A person involved in the procurement, sale, and/or
transport of cannabis and cannabis products between two or more cannabis businesses pursuant to Division 10
(commencing with Section 26000) of the California Business and Professions Code, as may be amended.

d)	Distributor Transport Only. A person involved in Distribution as limited by 16 California Code of Regulations
Section 5315, as may be amended.

e)	Engaged or Engages in cannabis operations. The commencing, conducting, operating, managing or carrying
on of a cannabis business or operation, the exercise of corporate or franchise powers, whether done as owner,
or by means of an officer, agent, manager, employee, or otherwise, whether operating from a fixed location in
the unincorporated area of the County or coming into the unincorporated area of the County from an outside
location to engage in such activities. A person shall be deemed engaged in cannabis operations within the
County if:

SR 006-34

1.	Such person or person's employee maintains a fixed place of business within the unincorporated
area of the County for the benefit or partial benefit of such person;

2.	Such person or person's employee owns or leases real property within the unincorporated area of
the County for business purposes;

3.	Such person or person's employee regularly maintains a stock of tangible personal property in the
unincorporated area of the County for sale in the ordinary course of business;

4.	Such person or person's employee regularly conducts solicitation of business within the
unincorporated area of the County;

5.	Such person or person's employee performs work or renders services in the unincorporated area of
the County; or

6.	Such person or person's employee utilizes the streets within the unincorporated area of the County
in connection with the operation of motor vehicles for business purposes.

The foregoing specified activities shall not be a limitation on the meaning of “engaged or engages in operations.”

f)	Manufacturing. All aspects of the extraction and/or infusion process, including preparing, holding, storing,
packaging, or labeling of cannabis products pursuant to Division 10 (commencing with Section 26000) of the
California Business and Professions Code, as may be amended. Manufacturing also includes any preparing,
holding, or storing of components and ingredients. Manufacturing includes, but is not limited to, volatile and
nonvolatile manufacturing.

g)	Microbusiness. Engaging in at least three of the four following cannabis operations: cultivation, distribution,
non-volatile manufacturing, and/or retail, pursuant to Division 10 (commencing with Section 26000) of the
California Business and Professions Code, as may be amended, and California Business and Professions Code
Section 26070(a)(3)(A) or 16 California Code of Regulations Section 5500, as may be amended.

h)	Nursery. The production solely of clones, immature plants, seeds, and other agricultural products used
specifically for the propagation and cultivation of cannabis pursuant to Division 10 (commencing with Section
26000) of the California Business and Professions Code, as may be amended.

i)	Person. Includes, but is not limited to, an individual, partnership, corporation, cooperative, collective,
organization, business, and/or entity.

j)	Retail or Retailer. Includes, but is not limited to, Non-Storefront Retailer and Storefront Retailer pursuant to
Division 10 (commencing with Section 26000) of the California Business and Professions Code, as may be
amended.

1.	Non-Storefront Retailer. Delivery-only retail of commercial cannabis or cannabis products, also
referred to as Non-Storefront Retail.

2.	Storefront Retailer. The retail sale and delivery of cannabis or cannabis products to customers, also
referred to as a Storefront Retail. A retailer’s premise may be open or closed to the public. A storefront
retailer may also conduct some sales by delivery.

k)	Treasurer-Tax Collector. The Treasurer-Tax Collector of the County of Santa Barbara, his or her deputies or
any other County officer charged with the administration of the provisions of this Chapter.

Section 50A-3 - Determining Gross Receipts Tax.

For the purpose of determining the gross receipts tax, the following provisions shall apply:

a)	“Gross Receipts,” except as otherwise specifically provided, means the total amount actually received or
receivable from all sales and transfers; the total amount of compensation actually received or receivable for the
performance of any act or service, of whatever nature it may be, for which a charge is made or credit allowed,
whether or not such act or service is done as a part of or in connection with the sale of materials, goods, wares
or merchandise; and discounts, gifts, rents, royalties, fees, commissions, dividends, and gains realized from
trading in stocks or bonds, however designated. Included in “gross receipts” shall be all receipts, cash, credits
and property of any kind or nature, without any deduction therefrom on account of the cost of the property sold,
the cost of materials used, labor or service costs, interest paid or payable, or losses or other expenses
whatsoever, except that the following shall be excluded therefrom:

1.	Cash discounts where allowed and taken on sales;

SR 006-35

2.	Credit allowed on property accepted as part of the purchase price and which property may later be
sold, at which time the sales price shall be included as gross receipts;

3.	Any tax required by law to be included in or added to the purchase price and collected from the
consumer or purchaser;

4.	Such part of the sale price of any property returned by purchasers to the seller as refunded by the
seller by way of cash or credit allowances or return of refundable deposits previously included in gross
receipts;

5.	Receipts from investments where the holder of the investment receives only interest and/or dividends,
royalties, annuities and gains from the sale or exchange of stock or securities solely for an individual’s
personal account, not derived in the ordinary course of a business;

6.	Receipts derived from the occasional sale of used, obsolete or surplus trade fixtures, machinery or
other equipment used by the taxpayer in the regular course of the taxpayer's business;

7.	Whenever there are included within the gross receipts amounts which reflect sales for which credit is
extended and such amount proved uncollectible in a subsequent year, those amounts may be
excluded from the gross receipts in the year they prove to be uncollectible; provided, however, if the
whole or portion of such amounts excluded as uncollectible are subsequently collected they shall be
included in the amount of gross receipts for the period when they are recovered;

8.	Receipts of refundable deposits, except that such deposits when forfeited and taken into income of
the business shall not be excluded when in excess of one dollar; and

9.	Amounts collected for others where the business is acting as an agent or trustee and to the extent that
such amounts are paid to those for whom collected. These agents or trustees must provide the finance
department with the names and the addresses of the others and the amounts paid to them. This
exclusion shall not apply to any fees, percentages, or other payments retained by the agent or trustees.

b)	“Gross receipts” subject to the cannabis operations tax shall be that portion of the gross receipts relating to
business conducted within the unincorporated area of the County.

Section 50A-4 - General Tax.

The cannabis operations tax in this Chapter is enacted pursuant to California Revenue and Taxation Code Section
34021.5, as may be amended, and upon approval by the electorate will be a general tax as authorized by California
Constitution Article XIII C and California Government Code Section 53723 as may be amended. As a general tax, the
revenue generated by this ordinance may be used for any general governmental purpose.

The foregoing revenues will be allocated annually by the Board of Supervisors through the annual budget process.
Such appropriations may be made or revised pursuant to the County Budget Act.

Section 50A-5 - Tax Due Dates and Delinquencies.

The cannabis operations gross receipts tax shall be due and payable and, if not paid shall become delinquent, as follows:

a)	Due Dates. The amount of the gross receipts tax shall be due and payable by first day of January, April, July
and October, and shall become delinquent if not remitted to the Treasurer-Tax Collector on or before 5:00 p.m.
on the last day of each of those months.

b)	Original Delinquency. For any delinquent payment, the person subject to the tax shall pay ten (10) percent of
the amount of the tax in addition to the amount of the tax.

c)	Continued Delinquency. Any person who fails to remit any delinquent remittance on or before a period of thirty
(30) days following the date on which the remittance first became delinquent shall pay a second delinquency
amount of ten (10) percent of the amount of the tax in addition to the amount of the tax and the ten (10) percent
amount first imposed upon the original delinquency.

d)	Cancellation of delinquency amounts. The Treasurer-Tax Collector may cancel the Original Delinquency and/or
Continued Delinquency amounts imposed on any person if the person provides evidence satisfactory to the
Treasurer-Tax Collector that failure to pay timely was due to circumstances beyond the control of the person
and occurred notwithstanding the exercise of ordinary care and the absence of willful neglect.

e)	Fraud. If the Treasurer-Tax Collector determines that the nonpayment of any remittance due under this Chapter
is due to fraud, an amount of twenty-five (25) percent of the amount of the tax shall be added thereto in addition
to the delinquency amounts stated in Subsections b and c of this Section.

f)	Interest. In addition to the delinquency and/or fraud amounts imposed, any person who fails to timely remit any
tax imposed by this Chapter shall pay interest at the rate of one-half of one percent per month or fraction thereof
on the amount of the tax.

g)	Delinquency. Fraud, and Interest Amounts Merged with Tax. Every delinquency and fraud amount imposed and
such interest as accrues under the provisions of this Section shall become part of the tax herein required to be
paid.

h)	Criminal Penalty. Any person or persons who make any material misrepresentation of fact for the purpose of
avoiding all or any part of the tax imposed by this Chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.

Section 50A-6 - Actions to Collect.

Any tax required to be paid by any person under the provisions of this Chapter shall be deemed a debt owed by the
person to the County. Any person owing money to the County under the provisions of this Chapter shall be liable to an
action by the County for the recovery of such amount. The County shall be entitled to recover all attorneys’ fees,
personnel costs and other expenses incurred due to the failure of timely remittance of tax proceeds to the County. Said
delinquencies shall be collected in the same manner, and subject to the same priority of lien, as any unsecured tax
collection procedure as provided by the California Revenue and Taxation Code, including, but not limited to, liens,
seizures, and sale. The provisions of this Section shall not be deemed a limitation upon the right of the County to bring
any other action including criminal, civil and equitable actions, based upon the failure to pay the tax, penalties and/or
fees imposed by this Chapter or the failure to comply with any of the provisions of this Chapter.

Section 50A-7 - Quarterly Reports.

a)	Every person required to pay the cannabis operations tax under this Chapter shall file with the Treasurer-Tax
Collector a report, upon a form provided by the Treasurer-Tax Collector, which report must be received in the office
of the Treasurer-Tax Collector on or before 5:00 p.m. on the last day of January, April, July and October, setting
forth such information as the Treasurer-Tax Collector shall require, including, but not limited to, the following:

1.	The name, state and local license numbers and premise address or other identification of all cannabis
operations located in the unincorporated area of the County and operated during the previous three months;
and

2.	The number of units of cannabis or cannabis products sold or transferred; and

3.	The total gross receipts of the cannabis operation; and

4.	The computation of the amount of the gross receipts tax for each such operation due the County.

b)	At the time of filing the report such person shall also pay to the Treasurer-Tax Collector any gross receipts tax which
may be shown to be due. The report must be signed by the person required to pay the gross receipts tax or by a
managing officer or agent, with the legal authority to bind the cannabis operation, thereof and shall include a
declaration substantially as follows:

“I declare under penalty of perjury that I am authorized to make and file the foregoing statement, and
that to the best of my knowledge and belief it is a true, correct, and complete statement made in good
faith for the period stated.”

c)	The report required by this Section shall not be conclusive against the County as to the information set forth therein,
nor shall the filing of a report preclude the County from collecting by appropriate action any additional tax that is later
determined to be due and payable.

d)	Tax statements and payments for all outstanding taxes owed the County are immediately due to the Treasurer-Tax
Collector upon cessation of business for any reason.

e)	The Treasurer-Tax Collector may, at his or her discretion, establish shorter or longer report and payment periods for
any taxpayer as the Treasurer-Tax Collector deems necessary to ensure collection of the tax.

f)	The Treasurer-Tax Collector may, as part of administering the tax and in his or her discretion, modify the form of
payment and take other administrative actions as needed to facilitate collection of the tax.

SR 006-37

Section 50A-8 - Recordkeeping Required, Audit and Examination of Records.

Every person required to pay a gross receipts tax under this Chapter shall keep full, true, and accurate records as to
the amount of cannabis or cannabis products sold and/or transferred by him or her from operations located within the
unincorporated area of the County, for a period of at least seven (7) years, and shall, upon the demand of the Treasurer-
Tax Collector, make the records, together with any track and trace reports, shipping documents or sales invoices
pertaining to such cannabis or cannabis products, available for the inspection of the Treasurer-Tax Collector at all
reasonable times.

The Treasurer-Tax Collector shall have the power to audit and examine all books and records of persons engaged in
cannabis operations, including both state and federal income tax returns, California sales tax returns, bank statements,
or other evidence documenting the gross receipts of persons engaged in cannabis operations, and, where necessary,
all equipment, of any person engaged in cannabis operations in the County, for the purpose of ascertaining the amount
of cannabis operations tax, if any, required to be paid by the provisions hereof, and for the purpose of verifying any
statements or any item thereof when filed by any person pursuant to this Chapter. If such person, after written demand
by the Treasurer-Tax Collector, refuses to make available for audit, examination or verification such books, records or
equipment as the Treasurer-Tax Collector requests, the Treasurer-Tax Collector may, after full consideration of all
information within his or her knowledge concerning the cannabis operations of the person so refusing, make an
assessment in the manner provided in Section 50A-9 of any taxes estimated to be due. The Treasurer-Tax Collector
may collect a fee adopted by the Board of Supervisors to pay for the cost of examination and audit should the books
and records be provided in a form insufficient to allow the Treasurer-Tax Collector to make a determination of tax due.

Section 50A-9 - Tax estimates rendered by Treasurer-Tax Collector.

In the event that any person required to pay the gross receipts tax on cannabis operations under this Chapter fails to
file a report of the quarterly sales and gross receipts of cannabis or cannabis products as provided in Section 50A-7, or
that the information filed in such report is insufficient to enable the Treasurer-Tax Collector to compute the gross receipts
tax liability of such person, the Treasurer-Tax Collector shall, by such method as he or she may deem appropriate,
estimate the amount of the tax due from the person, along with any additional amounts due pursuant to Section 50A-5.
Notice thereof may be sent by the Treasurer-Tax Collector to such person at his or her latest address as shown on the
County's records.

Such person may within ten days after the serving or mailing of such notice make application in writing to the Treasurer-
Tax Collector for a hearing on the amount assessed. If application by such person for a hearing is not made within the
time prescribed, the tax, interest, and additional amounts, if any, determined by the Treasurer-Tax Collector shall
become final and conclusive and immediately due and payable. If such application is made, the Treasurer-Tax Collector
shall give not less than five days written notice to such person to show cause at a time and place fixed in said notice
why such amount specified therein should not be fixed for such tax, interest, and additional amounts. At such hearing,
such person may appear and offer evidence why such specified tax, interest, and additional amounts should not be so
fixed. After such hearing the Treasurer-Tax Collector shall determine the proper tax to be remitted and shall thereafter
give written notice to the person of such determination and the amount of such tax, interest and additional amounts, if
any. The amount determined to be due shall be payable after fifteen days unless an appeal is taken as provided in
Section 50A-10.

Section 50A-10 - Appeal from Determination of Treasurer-Tax Collector.

Any person subject to the tax aggrieved by any decision of the Treasurer-Tax Collector with respect to the amount of
such tax, interest, and additional amounts, if any, may appeal to the Board of Supervisors by filing a notice of appeal
with the Clerk of the Board of Supervisors within fifteen days of the serving or mailing of the determination of tax due.
The Board of Supervisors shall fix a time and place for hearing such appeal, and the Clerk of the Board of Supervisors
shall give notice in writing to such person at his or her last known place of address. The findings of the Board of
Supervisors shall be final and conclusive and shall be sent to the appellant. Any amount found to be due shall be
immediately due and payable upon the serving or mailing of notice.

Section 50A-11 - Refunds.

a)	Whenever the amount of any cannabis business tax, delinquency amount or interest has been overpaid, paid more
than once, or has been erroneously collected or received by the County under this Chapter, it may be refunded to
the claimant who paid the tax provided that a written claim for refund is filed with the Treasurer-Tax Collector within
one (1) year of the date the tax was originally due and payable.__________________________________________

b)	The Treasurer-Tax Collector shall have the right to examine and audit all the books and business records of the
claimant in order to determine the eligibility of the claimant to the claimed refund. No claim for refund shall be allowed
if the claimant refuses to allow such examination of the claimant’s books and business records after request by the
Treasurer-Tax Collector to do so. The Treasurer-Tax Collector may collect a fee adopted by the Board of Supervisors
to pay for the cost of examination and audit should the books and records be provided in a form insufficient to allow
the Treasurer-Tax Collector to make a determination on the claim for refund.

c)	In the event that the cannabis operations tax was erroneously paid and the error is attributable to the County, the
County shall refund the amount of tax erroneously paid up to one (1) year from when the error was identified.

d)	No refund of any tax collected pursuant to this Chapter shall be made because of the discontinuation, dissolution, or
other termination of a business or operation.

Section 50A-12 - Exemptions from the Tax.

a)	The provisions of this Chapter shall not apply to personal cannabis cultivation as defined by California Health and

Safety Code Section 11362.2, as may be amended.

b)	The provisions of this Chapter shall not apply to personal use of cannabis that is specifically exempted from state

licensing requirements, that meets the definition of personal use in California Health and Safety Code Section
11362.1, as may be amended, or equivalent terminology understate law, and for which the individual receives no
compensation whatsoever related to that personal use.

Section 50A-13 - Apportionment.

If a person subject to the tax is operating both within and outside the unincorporated County, it is the intent of the County
to apply the cannabis operations tax so that the measure of the tax fairly reflects the proportion of the taxed activity
actually carried on in the unincorporated County. For purposes of apportionment as may be required by law, the
Treasurer-Tax Collector may promulgate administrative procedures for apportionment in accordance with California
state law.

Section 50A-14 - Constitutionality and Legality.

This tax is intended to be applied in a manner consistent with the United States and California Constitutions and
California state law. None of the tax provided for by this Chapter shall be applied in a manner that causes an undue
burden upon interstate commerce, a violation of the equal protection and due process clauses of the Constitutions of
the United States or the State of California or a violation of any other provision of the California Constitution or California
state law.

Section 50A-15 - Other Licenses, Permits, Taxes, Fees, or Charges.

Nothing contained in this Chapter shall be deemed to repeal, amend, be in lieu of, replace or in any way affect any
requirements for any permit or license required by, under or by virtue of any provision of any other title or chapter of this
Code or any other ordinance or resolution of the County, nor be deemed to repeal, amend, be in lieu of, replace or in
any way affect any tax, fee or other charge imposed, assessed or required by, under or by virtue of any other title or
chapter of this Code or any other ordinance or resolution of the County. Any references made or contained in any other
title or chapter of this Code to any licenses, license taxes, fees, or charges, or to any schedule of license fees, shall be
deemed to refer to the licenses, license taxes, fees or charges, or schedule of license fees, provided for in other titles
or chapters of this Code.

Section 50A-16 - Change of Ownership.

a)	In the event that there is a change of ownership of any cannabis business, the new owner is required to notify
the Treasurer-Tax Collector on any form required by the Treasurer-Tax Collector.

b)	Unless otherwise provided by law, upon the sale of any cannabis business:

1.	It is the joint and several liability of both the seller and buyer to remit any tax due. This includes all taxes
accrued and payable up until the date of sale; and

SR 006-39

2.	Any Certificate of Delinquent Cannabis Operations Tax Lien may be filed against both the seller and/or
buyer in an amount determined by the Treasurer-Tax Collector.

c)	Following any change of ownership, the cannabis business or operation may be subject to an audit by the
Treasurer-Tax Collector or his or her designee.

Section 50A-17 - Payment of Tax Does Not Authorize Unlawful Business and/or Operations.

a)	The payment of a cannabis operations tax required by this Chapter, and its acceptance by the County, shall not
entitle any person to carry on any cannabis business or operations or be construed as a permit or license. The
tax must be paid whether or not a person obtains a County business license.

b)	No tax paid under the provisions of this Chapter shall be construed as authorizing the conduct or continuance of
any illegal or unlawful business, or any business in violation of any local or state law.

Section 50A-18 - Administration of the Tax.

a)	The Treasurer-Tax Collector is authorized to collect the taxes, interest, delinquency amounts, penalties, and fees,
and to perform the duties required by this Chapter.

b)	For purposes of administration and enforcement of this Chapter generally, the Treasurer-Tax Collector may from
time to time promulgate such administrative rules and procedures consistent with the purpose, intent, and express
terms of this Chapter as he or she deems necessary to implement or clarify such provisions or aid in enforcement.

c)	The Treasurer-Tax Collector may take such administrative actions as needed to administer the tax, including, but
not limited to:

1.	Provide to all taxpayers forms for the reporting of the tax;

2.	Provide information to any taxpayer concerning the provisions of this Chapter;

3.	Receive and record all taxes remitted to the County as provided in this Chapter;

4.	Maintain records of taxpayer reports and taxes collected pursuant to this Chapter;

5.	Assess delinquency amounts and interest to taxpayers pursuant to this Chapter; and

6.	Determine amounts owed and enforce collection pursuant to this Chapter.

Section 50A-19 - Severability.

If any provision of this Chapter or the application thereof to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the remainder
of the Chapter and the application of such provisions to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

Section 50A-20 - Timeframes.

The tax shall take effect beginning July 1, 2018, with the first payments due October 1, 2018.

Section 50A-21 - Remedies Cumulative.

All remedies and penalties prescribed by this Chapter or which are available under any other provision of law or equity
are cumulative. The use of one or more remedies by the County shall not bar the use of any other remedy for the
purpose of enforcing the provisions of this Chapter.

Section 50A-22 - Amendment or Repeal.

This Chapter may be repealed or amended by the Board of Supervisors without a vote of the people to the extent
allowed by law. However, as required by Article XIII C of the California Constitution, voter approval is required for any
amendment that would increase the rate of any tax levied pursuant to this Chapter above the maximum rates established
by this Chapter. The people of the County of Santa Barbara affirm that the following actions shall not constitute an
increase of a tax:

SR 006-40

a)	The restoration of the rate of the tax to a rate that is no higher than that set by this Chapter, if the Board of
Supervisors has acted to reduce the rate of the tax; or

b)	An action that interprets or clarifies the methodology of the tax, or any definition applicable to the tax, so long as
the interpretation or clarification (even if contrary to some prior interpretation or clarification) is not inconsistent
with the language of this Chapter; or

c)	The collection of the tax imposed by this Chapter, even if the County had, for some period of time, failed to
collect the tax; or

d)	The establishment of a class of persons that is exempt or excepted from the tax or the discontinuation of any
such exemption or exception (other than the discontinuation of an exemption or exception specifically set forth
in this chapter); or

e)	The Board of Supervisors’ adoption of an ordinance or resolution, as authorized by this Section, to raise the tax
rate or rates provided that they are not raised to a rate or rates higher than the maximums established herein.

SECTION TWO:

Pursuant to the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines section 15378(b)(4), adoption of this gross
receipts tax ordinance as a government funding mechanism that does not involve any commitment to any specific
project that may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the environment is not a project subject to the
requirements of CEQA. Prior to commencement of any project that may result from the expenditure of revenues from
this tax, any necessary environmental review required by CEQA shall be completed.

SECTION THREE:

Except as amended by this Ordinance the Santa Barbara County Code shall remain unchanged and shall continue in
full force and effect.

SECTION FOUR:

This Ordinance shall take effect immediately upon its approval of a majority of the votes cast by voters voting upon the
Ordinance at the June 5, 2018 election. This Ordinance, or a summary thereof, shall be published in accordance with
Government Code section 25124, with the names of the members of the Board of Supervisors voting for and against
the same, in a newspaper of general circulation published in the County of Santa Barbara.

SR 006-41