School

District

4115 Jacksol Drive
San Jose, CA 95124
408,377,2103
Fax 408,559,3122
www.cambriansd.org

Board of Trustees

Doron Aronson
Aletta Godden
Jarod Middleton
Carol Presunka
Randy Scofield

Exploring Infinite
Possibilities for Learning

Superintendent

Carrie Andrews, Ph.D.

March 7,2018

County of Santa Clara
Registrar of Voters
1555 Berger Drive, Bldg. 2
San Jose, CA 95112



MAR 07 2018

R=Qi'Sm‘fl OF VOTERS

Re: Resolution 17-18-07; Proposing a Parcel Tax and Establishing
Specifications of the Election Order

On March 1, 2018, the Cambrian School District Board of
Trustees unanimously approved Resolution 17-18-07 proposing a
Parcel Tax to be placed on June 5, 2018, primary election. Please
see the enclosed Resolution for a Parcel Tax and Establishing
Specifications of the Election Order.

Thank you for your time. If you have any questions, please do not
hesitate to contact me at 408-558-4906.

Sincerely,

Dr. Carrie Andrews
Superintendent

CAMBRIAN SCHOOL DISTRICT
Board of Trustees
Resolution No. 17-18-07

RESOLUTION PROPOSING A PARCEL TAX AND ESTABLISHING
SPECIFICATIONS OF THE ELECTION ORDER

WHEREAS, the District’s Governing Board (the “Board”) has established the goals of
improving academic performance and the quality of education for children in the District;

WHEREAS, increased revenues are necessary to meet these goals of helping children;

WHEREAS, a new parcel tax will be utilized to retain high-quality teachers; continue core
programs in math, science, technology, reading, music and the arts; maintain class sizes and
continue to provide physical education that promotes student health and fitness.

WHEREAS, future funding for the District from the State of California and other sources
is projected to be inadequate to provide the level of support to the District’s educational programs
which the citizens of the District expect;

WHEREAS, inadequate current funding will limit the District in improving the quality of
education for its children and will result in the cut-back of educational services in order to maintain
financial solvency;

WHEREAS, Section 4 of Article XIIIA of the California Constitution and Government
Code Section 50075, 50076, 50079, and 53720 et seq. authorize a school district, upon approval
of two-thirds of the electorate voting on the measure, to levy a qualified special tax for specified
purposes following notice and public hearing; and

WHEREAS, the Board believes that a parcel tax is necessary to improve educational
opportunities for all students of the District.

THEREFORE, be it resolved that:

1.	The Board hereby calls an election to approve a parcel tax (the “Parcel Tax”) for
the purpose of funding vital educational programs and other items critical to the success of students
in the Cambrian School District. The Parcel Tax shall be $84 per year, adjusted for inflation, per
subject parcel. The Parcel Tax shall continue through fiscal year 2025-26, its continuance beyond
that year is subject to a majority voter approval, consistent with Elections Code Section 9603.

2.	An exemption shall be granted for any parcel owned by one or more persons 65
years of age or over who occupies said parcel as a principal residence, upon application for
exemption. All property that would otherwise be exempt from property taxes shall be exempt
from the Parcel Tax.

3.	The Parcel Tax shall be adjusted annually by the change in the Consumer Price
Index (all urban consumers) for the San Francisco-Oakland-San Jose Metropolitan Area, published
by the United States Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics, or an equivalent index.

4,	This Resolution shall constitute an order of election pursuant to Education Code
Section 5320 et seq. The Board hereby requests the Santa Clara County Registrar of Voters (the

1

“Registrar”) to conduct the election on behalf of the District. The Registrar is requested to present
to the voters the Parcel Tax Measure (the “Measure”) in substantially the abbreviated form attached
hereto as Exhibit A (the “Abbreviated Measure”). In addition, the Full Text of the Measure shall
appear in the ballot pamphlet in substantially the form attached hereto as
Exhibit B (the “Full Text of the Measure”), or in the alternative, the ballot pamphlet shall contain
information as to how voters may obtain a copy of the Full Text of the Measure, as provided for
in paragraph 9 of this Resolution.

5.	The Parcel Tax shall be collected by the Santa Clara County Tax Collector at the
same time, as and along with, and shall be subject to, the same penalties as general and ad valorem
taxes collected by said tax collector. The tax and penalty shall bear interest at the same rate as the
rate for unpaid ad valorem property taxes until paid. Any tax levied shall become a lien upon the
properties against which taxes are assessed and collectible.

6.	The Clerk of the Board is hereby directed to send a copy of this Resolution to the
Santa Clara County Registrar as the officer conducting the election, to the Santa Clara County
Superintendent of Schools (the “Santa Clara County Superintendent”), and to the Santa Clara
County Clerk of the Board of Supervisors (the “County Board”). The Board requests that the
County Superintendent deliver a copy of all published notices to the Clerk of this Board.

7.	The Comity Superintendent is hereby requested to prepare and execute a formal
Notice of Parcel Tax Election and Consolidation (the “Notice”) in the form attached hereto as
Exhibit C and to call the election by causing the Notice to be posted in accordance with
Section 5363 of the Education Code no later than March 7,2018, or otherwise cause the Notice to
be published as permitted by law.

8.	The following additional matters shall apply to the Parcel Tax election.

a.	Pursuant to Section 5303 of the Education Code, the Registrar is requested
to take all steps to hold the election in accordance with law and these specifications. The Board
requests that the Registrar deliver a copy of all published notices to the Clerk of this Board pursuant
to Section 12113 of the Elections Code.

b.	Pursuant to Education Code Section 5342 and Elections Code
Section 10402.5, the County Board of Supervisors is requested to consolidate the election ordered
hereby with any and all other elections to be held on June 5, 2018 within the District.

c.	The District agrees to reimburse Santa Clara County for the cost of the

election.

d.	The County Board of Supervisors is authorized to canvass the returns of the
election pursuant to Section 10411 of the Elections Code.

e.	Pursuant to Section 5303 of the Education Code and Section 10002 of the
Elections Code, the County Board of Supervisors is requested to permit the Registrar to render all
services incident to the preparation for and holding of the parcel tax election for which services
the District agrees to reimburse Santa Clara County with such services which may include the
publication of a notice of parcel tax election, and the mailing of the sample ballot consistent with
Section 5363 of the Education Code and the Elections Code and such other steps as are necessary
for the election.

65963v8 / CAMBSD.35.1

2

9.	The Registrar is requested to reprint the Full Text of the Measure in substantially
the form attached hereto as Exhibit B, in the voter information pamphlet to be distributed to voters
pursuant to Section 13307 of the Elections Code.

10.	The President of the Board and/or the President’s designees are hereby authorized
to prepare and file with the Registrar any ballot argument prepared in connection with the election,
including a rebuttal argument, each within the time established by the Registrar, which shall be
considered the official ballot arguments of the Board as sponsor of the Measure.

11.	The District Superintendent, President of this Board, or their designees, are hereby
authorized and directed to execute any other documents and to perform all acts necessary to place
the Measure on the ballot, including making any changes to the Full Text of the Measure as set
forth in this Resolution, or the Abbreviated Measure, or to the text of this Resolution, as may be
convenient or necessary to comply with the intent of this Resolution, the requirements of elections
officials, and requirements of law. All actions hereto for, or hereafter taken by such authorized
officers and agents of the District that are in conformity with the purposes and intent of this
Resolution are hereby ratified, confirmed, and approved in all respects.

PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Board of Trustees of the Cambrian School District of
Santa Clara County, State of California this 1st day of March 2018, by the following vote:

AYES: AROX&OV3, (s,0bt>6K>, KlbbLEfoiO iSCjOF^b

NOES:#

ABSENTION: 0
ABSENT: PRESUl^KA

I do hereby certify that the foregoing is a full true and correct copy of a Resolution adopted by said
Board at a special meeting thereof held at its regular place of meeting at the date and vote stated,
which Resolution is on file in the office of said Board.

65963v8 / CAMBSD.35.1

3

EXHIBIT A

ABBREVIATED MEASURE

To provide Cambrian neighborhood elementary and middle school students with stable funding
for instruction in math, science, reading, engineering, technology, and arts; retain highly qualified
teachers; and maintain class sizes; shall Cambrian School District establish an annual parcel tax of
$84 for 8 years, its continuance subject to voter approval, raising approximately $740,000 in the
first year, subject to annual adjustment; with exemptions for senior citizens, no funds for
administrator’s salaries and every dollar benefitting Cambrian children?

Yes

No

(75 words)

65963v8 /CAMBSD.35.1

Exhibit A-1

EXHIBIT B

FULL TEXT OF THE MEASURE

Abbreviated Ballot Measure

To provide Cambrian neighborhood elementary and middle school students with stable funding
for instruction in math, science, reading, engineering, technology, and arts; retain highly qualified
teachers; and maintain class sizes; shall Cambrian School District establish an annual parcel tax of
$84 for 8 years, its continuance subject to voter approval, raising approximately $740,000 in the
first year, subject to annual adjustment; with exemptions for senior citizens, no funds for
administrator’s salaries and every dollar benefitting Cambrian children?

Levy of Special Tax

The Board shall first levy the tax in fiscal year 2018-19, at $84. Thereafter, the Parcel Tax shall
be adjusted annually by the change in the Consumer Price Index (all urban consumers) for the San
Francisco-Oakland-San Jose Metropolitan Area, published by the United States Department of
Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics, or an equivalent index.

The Board shall cease to levy the tax following fiscal year 2025-26, unless continuation of the tax
has been approved by a majority of voters voting in an election held consistent with the
requirements of Elections Code Section 9603.

Parcels to be taxed each year will be any unit of real property in the District that receives a separate
tax bill for ad valorem property taxes from the Santa Clara County Tax Collector’s Office unless
an exemption applies. Exemptions include only 1) property that is otherwise exempt from or upon
which no ad valorem property taxes are levied in any year and 2) property for which an exemption
has been approved due to the parcel being owned by one or more persons 65 years of age or over
who occupies said parcel as a principal residence.

Purpose of Tax

Revenue raised from Cambrian School District’s parcel tax will be expended in order to
maintain the high quality of education at all elementary, middle and transitional kindergarten (TK)
through eighth grade schools. Cambrian School District’s goal is to continue providing such high
quality education by retaining teachers, maintaining class sizes, instructing students in science, art
and music, so that our students may find success in high school, college, and careers. However,
due to reductions in State funding (cut back to 2008 funding levels), the District is struggling to
continue providing high quality instruction and academic programs for Cambrian children in
grades transitional kindergarten through eighth grade.

These reductions in State funding, the requirement to maintain District reserves, and the
need to reduce deficit spending have impacted our schools. We can no longer rely on the State to
fully fund the instruction and academic programs our students need. Cambrian School District has
tightened its belt, improved efficiencies, and made cuts as far away from the classroom as possible.
Cambrian School District has conducted a full assessment of all of their local school instructional
program needs—including the need to retain our best teachers and maintain core academics for

Exhibit B-l

children in grades TK-8. Additional local revenue is needed to fund these core priorities.
Accordingly, Cambrian School District is asking its community to vote on a local parcel tax to
continue to protect the high quality of education at Cambrian schools.

The tax shall be levied for providing Cambrian schools with stable local funding for instruction in
math, science, reading, engineering, technology, and arts; retain highly qualified teachers; and
maintain class sizes and continue to provide physical education that promotes student health and
fitness.

Severability

The Board hereby declares, and the voters by approving this measure concur, that every section
and part of this measure has independent value, and the Board and the voters would have adopted
each provision hereof regardless of every other provision hereof. Upon approval of this measure
by the voters, should any part of the measure or taxing formula be found by a court of competent
jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, all remaining parts of the measure or taxing formula hereof
shall remain in full force and effect to the fullest extent allowed by law.

Exhibit B-2

EXHIBIT C

FORMAL NOTICE OF PARCEL TAX ELECTION

NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN to the qualified electors of the Cambrian School District of Santa
Clara County, California, that in accordance with the provisions of the Education Code and
Government Code of the State of California, an election will be held on June 5, 2018 for the
purpose of submitting to the qualified electors of the District the proposition summarized as
follows:

To provide Cambrian neighborhood elementary and middle school students with stable funding
for instruction in math, science, reading, engineering, technology, and arts; retain highly qualified
teachers; and maintain class sizes; shall Cambrian School District establish an annual parcel tax of
$84 for 8 years, its continuance subject to voter approval, raising approximately $740,000 in the
first year, subject to annual adjustment; with exemptions for senior citizens, no funds for
administrator’s salaries and every dollar benefitting Cambrian children?

By execution of this formal Notice of Election the County Superintendent of Schools of Santa
Clara County directs consolidation of the election with such other elections as may be held on the
same day in the same territory or in territory that is in part the same.

The County Superintendent of Schools of Santa Clara County, by this Notice of Election, has
called the election pursuant to a Resolution and Order of the Board of Trustees of the Cambrian
School District, adopted March 1, 2018, in accordance with the provisions of Education Code
Sections 5302, 5325 and 5361.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this day,_____________________,	2018.

BY _____________________________

County Superintendent of Schools
Santa Clara County, California

65963v8 / CAMBSD.35.1

Exhibit C-l