BALLOT MEASURE

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE

ORDINANCE NO. 2018-01

AN ORDINANCE OF THE MONTEREY COUNTY REGIONAL FIRE DISTRICT, IMPOSING A
COMMERCIAL CANNABIS BUSINESS TAX ON COMMERCIAL CANNABIS BUSINESS

Summary

This ordinance will impose a Monterey County Regional Fire District ("District”) tax on
commercial cannabis businesses within the District's jurisdiction in Monterey County as of
August 1, 2018. The ordinance establishes the following tax rates: for cultivation, the tax rate is
$0.18 per fiscal year per authorized square foot and to increase thereafter based on the
Consumer Price Index; for nursery cultivation, the tax rate is $0.10 per authorized square foot
and to increase thereafter based on the Consumer Price Index; and for all other commercial
cannabis businesses, including but not limited to, dispensaries and manufacturing, the tax rate
is $1.00 per fiscal year per authorized square foot and to increase thereafter based on the
Consumer Price Index. The tax applies to commercial cannabis businesses, and under state law,
to nonmedical cannabis or marijuana businesses. Personal cultivation and personal use, as
further delineated in the ordinance, are exempt from the tax. The ordinance contains payment
and reporting requirements and enforcement provisions and authorizes the District to
administer the tax. The tax is for Fire Protection Services to include, Fire Prevention, Education,
Emergency Medical Response, and Fire Protection, and will take effect only if the tax is
approved by 2/3 of the voters in the District voting on the tax at an election.

75 word max as to appear on ballot

Shall Monterey County Regional Fire District impose an annual tax only on commercial
cannabis businesses within its boundaries to fund impacts upon fire prevention services,
and response to fires, hazardous materials, and other emergencies at the following rates:
$0.18 per square foot on cannabis cultivation; $0.10 per square foot on cannabis nurseries;
and $1.00 per square foot on cannabis manufacturing and retailers, adjusting all rates
annually based on the Consumer Price Index, potentially generating $350,000 annually with
no termination?

The Board of Directors ("Board") of the Monterey County Regional Fire District ordains as
follows:

SECTION 1: FINDINGS AND RECITALS. The Board hereby finds and declares as follows.

A.	On November 8, 2016, the voters of the State of California approved the Adult Use of
Marijuana Act ("AUMA"), an initiative, legalizing the personal use of cannabis for adults
21 age and older, and creating a regulatory program for nonmedical cannabis.

B.	In June 2017, the Senate passed, and the Governor signed, Senate Bill 94, creating a
unified licensing and regulatory program for medicinal and adult-use cannabis
businesses, called the Medicinal and Adult-Use Cannabis Regulation and Safety Act
("MAUCRSA," Bus. & Prof. Code § 26000 et seq.).

C.	The District is governed by The Fire Protection District Law of 1987 (the "Act") Health &
Safety Code §13800, et seq.). The Act, among other things, authorizes the District to
adopt ordinances and to enforce rules and regulations for the administration, operation,
and maintenance of District services.

D.	The District is the sole agency authorized to provide fire prevention, fire protection, and
emergency response services within its territorial jurisdiction, including the
enforcement of the California Fire Code, as amended and adopted by the District. The
District's Fire Code establishes rules and regulations for the protection of life and safety
for residents and businesses within the Fire District boundary.

E.	On December 5, 2017, the Monterey County Board of Supervisors passed and approved
County Ordinances 5292, 5294 and 5293, amending the County Code to regulate and
permit commercial cannabis businesses in the County.

F.	The County began issuing licenses for commercial cannabis businesses beginning
January 1, 2018.

G.	Many of the commercial cannabis businesses will be within the District's boundaries,
potentially creating a significant unmitigated financial impact.

H.	The California Constitution, Article XIII A, section 4 and Health and Safety Code sections
13910 and 13911 authorize the District to impose special taxes upon a 2/3 vote of the
electorate.

SECTION 2: Adoption of District Ordinance 2018-01

The Board hereby adopts the following text that shall constitute District Ordinance 2018-01:

Ordinance 1
COMMERCIAL CANNABIS BUSINESS TAX

Sections:

1.1	Title.

1.2	Cannabis Business tax.

1.3	Purpose of the ordinance.

1.4	Definitions.

1.5	Tax imposed.

1.6	Reporting and remittance of tax.

1.7	Payments and communications -timely remittance.

1.8	Payment - when taxes deemed delinquent.

1.9	Notice not required by District.

1.10	Penalties and interest

1.11	Refunds and credits.

1.12	Refunds and procedures.

1.13	Appeal Procedure.

1.14	Enforcement Action to collect.

1.15	Apportionment.

1.16	Constitutionality and legality.

1.17	Audit and examination of records and equipment.

1.18	Other licenses, permits, taxes or charges.

1.19	Payment of tax does not authorize unlawful business.

1.20	Deficiency determinations.

1.21	Failure to report - nonpayment and fraud.

1.22	Tax assessment -notice of requirements.

1.23	Severability.

1.24	Remedies cumulative.

1.25	Amendment or repeal.

1.1

Title.

This ordinance shall be known as the Monterey County Regional Fire District Commercial
Cannabis Business Tax Ordinance. This ordinance shall be applicable in the Monterey County
Regional Fire District, which shall be referred to herein as "District."

1.2	Special	tax.

The Commercial Cannabis Business Tax is enacted

All of the proceeds from the tax imposed by this Ordinance shall be used for Fire District
purposes as defined and set forth by The Fire Protection District Law of 1987 (Health & Safety
Code §13800, et seq.). Health and Safety Code section 13801 sets forth:

The Legislature finds and declares that the local provision of fire protection
services, rescue services, emergency medical services, hazardous material
emergency response services, ambulance services, and other services relating
to the protection of lives and property is critical to the public peace, health,
and safety of the state. Among the ways that local communities have
provided for those services has been the creation of fire protection
districts. Local control over the types, levels, and availability of these services
is a long-standing tradition in California which the Legislature intends to
retain. Recognizing that the state's communities have diverse needs and
resources, it is the intent of the Legislature in enacting this part to provide a
broad statutory authority for local officials. The Legislature encourages local
communities and their officials to adapt the powers and procedures in this
part to meet their own circumstances and responsibilities.

The California Constitution, Article XIII A, section 4 and Health and Safety Code sections 13910
and 13911 authorize the District to impose special taxes upon a 2/3 vote of the electorate.

1.3	Purpose of the ordinance.

This ordinance is adopted for the following purposes, among others, and directs that the
provisions hereof be interpreted to accomplish those purposes:

A.	To impose a tax on the privilege of cultivating, dispensing, producing, processing,
preparing, storing, providing, donating, selling, or distributing cannabis products by commercial
cannabis businesses in the District area of the County, pursuant to California Revenue and
Taxation Code section 34021.

B To impose a tax on the privilege of cultivating, manufacturing, producing, processing,
preparing, storing, providing, donating, or selling, nonmedical marijuana and marijuana
products and accessories by commercial cannabis businesses in the District area of the County
as approved by the voters in the November 2016 election, including marijuana activity in the
State of California.

C.	To impose a tax on lawful commercial cannabis business consistent with the fire and life
safety component of the state licensing agreement in accordance with the authority granted by
the Health and Safety Code sections 13910 and 13911 to impose a special tax;

D.	To specify the type of tax and rate of tax to be levied and the method of collection; and

E.	To comply with all requirements for imposition of a special tax, such tax to become
operative only if submitted to the electorate and approved by a 2/3 majority vote of the voters
voting in an election on the issue.

1.4	Definitions.

The following words and phrases shall have the meanings set forth below when used in this
Ordinance:

A.	"Business" shall include all activities engaged in or caused to be engaged in within the
District, including any commercial or industrial enterprise, trade, profession, occupation,
vocation, calling, or livelihood, whether or not carried on for gain or profit, but shall not include
the services rendered by an employee to his or her employer.

B.	"Cannabis" means all parts of the plant Cannabis sativa Linnaeus, Cannabis indica, or
Cannabis ruderalis, whether growing or not; the seeds thereof; the resin, whether crude or
purified, extracted from any part of the plant; and every compound, manufacture, salt,
derivative, mixture, or preparation of the plant, its seeds, or resin. "Cannabis" also means the
separated resin, whether crude or purified, obtained from cannabis. "Cannabis" also means
marijuana as defined by Section 11018 of the Health and Safety Code and is not limited to
medical cannabis.

C.	"Cannabis product" means raw cannabis that has undergone a process whereby the raw
agricultural product has been transformed into a concentrate, an edible product, or a topical
product. "Cannabis product" also means marijuana products as defined by Section 11018.1 of
the Health and Safety Code and is not limited to medical cannabis products.

D.	"Canopy" means all areas occupied by any portion of a cannabis plant, inclusive of all
vertical planes, whether contiguous or noncontiguous on any one site. The plant canopy does
not need to be continuous on any premise in determining the total square footage which will
be subject to tax.

E.	"Commercial cannabis business" means any commercial business activity relating to
cannabis, including but not limited to cultivating, transporting, distributing, manufacturing,
compounding, converting, processing, preparing, storing, packaging, delivering, and selling
(wholesale and/or retail sales) of cannabis and any ancillary products and accessories in the
District, whether or not carried on for gain or profit.

F.	"Commercial cannabis business tax," "business tax," or "commercial cannabis tax"
means the tax due pursuant to this ordinance for engaging in commercial cannabis business in
the District.

G.	"Commercial cannabis cultivation" means cultivation conducted by, for, and as part of a
commercial cannabis business.

H.	"County permit" means a permit issued by the County to a person to authorize that
person to operate or engage in a commercial cannabis business. The term "County permit"
includes a commercial cannabis permit issued. The Monterey County Regional Fire District's Fire
Code establishes rules and regulations for the protection of life and safety for residents and
businesses within the District boundary.

I.	"Cultivation" means any activity involving the planting, growing, harvesting, drying,
curing, grading, or trimming of cannabis.

J.	"Delivery" means the commercial transfer of cannabis or cannabis products from a
dispensary.

K.	"Dispensary" or Retailer means a facility where cannabis, cannabis products, or devices
for the use of cannabis or cannabis products are offered, either individually or in any
combination, for retail sale, including an establishment that delivers cannabis and cannabis
products as part of a retail sale.

L.	"Distributor" or "distribution" or "distribution facility" means a person or facility involved
in the procurement, sale, and/or transport of cannabis and cannabis products between
permitted or licensed entities.

M.	"Employee" means each and every person engaged in the operation or conduct of any
business, whether as owner, member of the owner's family, partner, associate, agent, manager
or solicitor, and each and every other person employed or working in such business for a wage,
salary, commission, barter or any other form of compensation.

N.	"Engaged in business" means the commencing, conducting, operating, managing or
carrying on of a cannabis business and the exercise of corporate or franchise powers, whether
done as owner, or by means of an officer, agent, manager, employee, or otherwise, whether
operating from a fixed location in the District area of the County or coming into the District area
of the County from an outside location to engage in such activities. A person shall be deemed
engaged in business within the District if:

1.	Such person or person's employee maintains a fixed place of business within the District
for the benefit or partial benefit of such person;

2.	Such person or person's employee owns or leases real property within the District
business purposes;

3.	Such person or person's employee regularly maintains a stock of tangible personal
property in the District for sale in the ordinary course of business;

4.	Such person or person's employee regularly conducts solicitation of business within the
District;

5.	Such person or person's employee performs work or renders services in the	District;	and

6.	Such person or person's employee utilizes the streets within the District in connection
with the operation of motor vehicles for business purposes.

The foregoing specified activities shall not be a limitation on the meaning of "engaged in
business."

O.	"Evidence of doing business" means evidence such as, without limitation, use of signs,
circulars, cards or any other advertising media, including the use of internet or telephone
solicitation, or representation to a government agency or to the public that such person is
engaged in a cannabis business in the District area of the County.

P.	"Fiscal year" means July 1 through June 30 of the following calendar year.

Q.	"Gross Receipts," except as otherwise specifically provided, means the total	amount

actually received or receivable from all sales; the total amount or compensation actually
received or receivable for the performance of any act or service, of whatever nature it may be,
for which a charge is made or credit allowed, whether or not such act or service is done as a
part of or in connection with the sale of materials, goods, wares or merchandise; discounts,
rents, royalties, fees, commissions, dividends, and gains realized from trading in stocks or
bonds, however designated. Included in "gross receipts" shall be all receipts, cash, credits and
property of any kind or nature, without any deduction there from on account of the cost of the
property sold, the cost of materials used, labor or service costs, interest paid or payable, or
losses or other expenses whatsoever, except that the following shall be excluded therefrom:

1.

Cash discounts where allowed and taken on sales;

2.	Credit allowed on property accepted as part of the purchase price and which property
may later be sold, at which time the sales price shall be included as gross receipts;

3.	Any tax required by law to be included in or added to the purchase price and collected
from the consumer or purchaser;

4.	Such part of the sale price of any property returned by purchasers to the seller as
refunded by the seller by way of cash or credit allowances or return of refundable deposits
previously included in gross receipts;

5.	Receipts from investments where the holder of the investment receives only interest
and/or dividends, royalties, annuities and gains from the sale or exchange of stock or securities
solely for a person's own account, not derived in the ordinary course of a business;

6.	Receipts derived from the occasional sale of used, obsolete or surplus trade fixtures,
machinery or other equipment used by the taxpayer in the regular course of the taxpayer's
business;

7.	Cash value of sales, trades or transactions between departments or units of the same
business;

8.	Whenever there are included within the gross receipts amounts which reflect sales for
which credit is extended and such amount proved uncollectible in a subsequent year, those
amounts may be excluded from the gross receipts in the year they prove to be uncollectible;
provided, however, if the whole or portion of such amounts excluded as uncollectible are
subsequently collected they shall be included in the amount of gross receipts for the period
when they are recovered;

9.	Transactions between a partnership and its partners;

10.	Receipts from services or sales in transactions between affiliated corporations. An
affiliated corporation is a corporation:

a.	The voting and non-voting stock of which is owned at least eighty percent by such other
corporation with which such transaction is had; or

b.	Which owns at least eighty percent of the voting and non-voting stock of such other
corporation; or

c.	At least eighty percent of the voting and non-voting stock of which is owned by a
common parent corporation which also has such ownership of the corporation with which such
transaction is had.

11.	Transactions between a limited liability company and its member(s), provided the
limited liability company has elected to file as a Sub ordinance K entity under the Internal
Revenue Code and that such transaction(s) shall be treated the same as between a partnership
and its partner(s) as specified in Subsection (9) above;

12.	Receipts of refundable deposits, except that such deposits when forfeited and taken into
income of the business shall not be excluded when in excess of one dollar;

13.	Amounts collected for others where the business is acting as an agent or trustee and to
the extent that such amounts are paid to those for whom collected. These agents or trustees
must provide the finance department with the names and the addresses of the others and the
amounts paid to them. This exclusion shall not apply to any fees, percentages, or other
payments retained by the agent or trustees.

R.	"Manufacturer" means a person that conducts the production, preparation, propagation,
or compounding of cannabis products either directly or indirectly or by extraction methods, or
independently by means of chemical synthesis at a fixed location that packages or repackages
cannabis or cannabis products or labels or relabels its container, that holds a valid County
permit.

S.	"Nursery" means a person that produces only clones, immature plants (not flowering),
seeds, and other agricultural products used specifically for the planting, propagation, and
cultivation of cannabis.

T.	"Person" means an individual, firm, partnership, joint venture, association, corporation,
limited liability company, estate, trust, business trust, receiver, syndicate, or any other group or
combination acting as a unit, whether organized as a nonprofit or for-profit entity, and includes
the plural as well as the singular number.

U.	"Personal medical cannabis cultivation" means cultivation by a qualified patient who
cultivates one hundred (100) square feet total canopy area or less of cannabis exclusively for his
or her personal medical use but who does not provide, donate, sell, or distribute cannabis to
any other person. "Personal medical cannabis cultivation" also includes cultivation by a
primary caregiver who cultivates one hundred (100) square feet total canopy area or less of
cannabis exclusively for the personal medical purposes of no more than five (5) specified
qualified patients for whom he or she is the primary caregiver, but who does not receive
remuneration for these activities except for compensation in full compliance with Section
11362.765(c) of the California Health and Safety Code, as it may be amended.

V.

Sale" means and includes any sale, exchange, or barter.

X.	"Square foot" or "square footage" means the maximum amount of area for commercial
cannabis cultivation authorized by a County permit issued to a person engaging in commercial
cannabis business, or by a state license in the absence of a County permit or license, not
deducting for unutilized square footage, and shall be the basis for the tax base for cultivation.

Y.	"State" means the State of California.

Z.	"State license," "license," or "registration" means a state license issued pursuant to
California Business and Professions Code Sections 26000, et seq. or other applicable state law.

AA. "Testing laboratory" means a facility, entity, or site in the state that offers or performs
testing of cannabis or cannabis products and that is both of the following:

1.	Accredited by an accrediting body that is independent from all other persons involved in
the cannabis industry in the state; and

2.	Licensed by the California Bureau of Cannabis Control BB. "Transport" means the
transfer of cannabis or cannabis products from the permitted business location of one
permittee or licensee to the permitted business location of another permittee or licensee, for
the purposes of conducting commercial cannabis activity authorized pursuant to state law,
pursuant to California Business and Professions Code Sections 26000, et seq.

CC. "Transporter" means a person issued all required state and County permits to transport
cannabis or cannabis products between permitted facilities.

1.5	Tax imposed.

A.	There is established and imposed a commercial cannabis business tax at the rates
set forth in this ordinance.

B.	Tax on commercial cannabis cultivation except nurseries.

1.	Every person who is engaged in commercial cannabis cultivation in the District Area of
the County shall pay an annual commercial cannabis business tax. The initial tax rate effective
August 1, 2018 for commercial cannabis cultivation, excluding nurseries, shall be set at .18
cents per fiscal year, per square foot authorized by each County permit, or by each state license
in the absence of a County permit, not deducting for unutilized square footage. The square
footage shall be the maximum square footage allowed by the County permit for commercial
cannabis cultivation, or, in the absence of a County permit, the square footage shall be the
maximum square footage for commercial cannabis cultivation allowed by the state license
type. In no case shall square footage which is authorized by the permit or license but not
utilized for cultivation be deducted for the purpose of determining the tax for cultivation.

2.	Begging on July 1, 2019 and Juiy 1 of each succeeding fiscai year thereafter, the amount of
each commercial cannabis business tax imposed by this ordinance shall be increased by the
most recent change in the annual average of the Consumer Price Index ("CPI") for all urban
consumers in the San Francisco-Oakland-San Jose areas published by the United States
Government Bureau of Labor Statics. However, no CPI adjustments resulting in the decrease of
any tax imposed by this ordinance shall be made. 1.6

Reporting and remittance of tax.

The commercial cannabis business tax imposed by this ordinance shall be imposed on a fiscal
year basis and shall be due and payable in yearly installments as follows:

A.	Each person owing a commercial cannabis business shall, submit payment within 30 days
of receiving invoice from the District.

B.	If the commercial cannabis business tax is owed on commercial cannabis cultivation, the
square footage tax due shall be paid based on the square footage of cultivation authorized by
the County permit. The tax will not be prorated or adjusted for any reduction in the square
footage authorized but not utilized for cultivation. If the cultivation begins in the middle of a
fiscal year, the District shall prorate, in monthly increments, the amount due for the fiscal year.

C.	All tax statements shall be completed on forms prescribed by the District.

D.	Tax statements and payments for all outstanding taxes owed to the District are
immediately upon cessation of business for any reason.

1.7	Payments and communications - timely remittance.

Whenever any payment, statement, report, request or other communication is due, it must be
received by the District on or before the final due date. A postmark will not be accepted as
timely remittance. If the due date falls on Saturday, Sunday or a holiday, the due date shall be
the next regular business day on which the District is open to the public.

1.8	Payment - when taxes deemed delinquent.

Unless otherwise specifically provided under other provisions of this ordinance, the taxes
required to be paid pursuant to this ordinance shall be deemed delinquent if not received by
the District on or before the due date.

1.9	Notice not required by the District.

The District is not required to send a delinquency or other notice or bill to any person subject to
the provisions of this ordinance. Failure to send such notice or bill shall not affect the validity of
any tax or penalty due under the provisions of this ordinance.

1.10	Penalties and interest.

A.	Any person who fails or refuses to pay any commercial cannabis business tax required to
be paid pursuant to this ordinance on or before the due date shall pay penalties and interest as
follows:

1.	A penalty equal to twenty-five percent (25%) of the amount of the tax, in addition to the
amount of the tax, plus interest on the unpaid tax calculated from the due date of the tax at the
rate of one and one-half percent (1.5%) per month; and

2.	If the tax remains unpaid for a period exceeding one calendar month beyond the due
date, an additional penalty equal to twenty-five percent (25%) of the amount of the tax, plus
interest at the rate of one and one-half percent (1.5%) per month on the unpaid tax and on the
unpaid penalties.

3.	Interest shall be applied at the rate of one and one-half percent (1.5%) per month on the
first day of the month for the full month and will continue to accrue monthly on the tax and
penalty until the balance is paid in full.

B.	Whenever a check or electronic payment is submitted in payment of a commercial
cannabis business tax and the payment is subsequently returned unpaid by the bank for any
reason, the taxpayer will be liable for the tax amount due plus any fees, penalties and interest
as provided for in this Section, and any other amount allowed under state law.

1.11	Refunds and credits.

A.	No refund of any tax collected pursuant to this ordinance shall be made because
of the discontinuation, dissolution, or other termination of a business.

1.12	Refunds and procedures.

A.	Whenever the amount of any commercial cannabis business tax, penalty or interest has
been overpaid, paid more than once, or has been erroneously collected or received by the
District under this ordinance, it may be refunded to the claimant who paid the tax provided that
a written claim for refund is filed with the District within one (1) year of the date the tax was
originally due and payable.

B.	The District charged with the administration of this ordinance shall have the right to
examine and audit all the books and business records ofthe claimant in order to determine the
eligibility of the claimant to the claimed refund. No claim for refund shall be allowed if the
claimant refuses to allow such examination of claimant's books and business records after
request by the District to do so.

C.	In the event that the commercial cannabis business tax was erroneously paid, and the
error is attributable to the District, the District shall refund the amount of tax erroneously paid
up to one (1) year from when the error was identified.

D.	The District may take such administrative actions as needed to administer the tax,
including but not limited to:

1.	Provide to all commercial cannabis business taxpayers forms for the reporting ofthe tax;

2.	Increase tax rates in accordance with this ordinance;

3.	Provide information to any taxpayer concerning the provisions of this ordinance;

4.	Receive and record all taxes remitted to the District as provided in this ordinance;

5.	Maintain records of taxpayer reports and taxes collected pursuant to this ordinance;

6.

Assess penalties and interest to taxpayers pursuant to this ordinance;

7.

Determine amounts owed and enforce collection pursuant to this

ordnance.

1.13	Appeal procedure.

Any taxpayer aggrieved by any decision of the District with respect to the amount of tax,
interest, penalties and fees, if any, due under this Ordinance may appeal to the Board of
Directors by filing a notice of appeal with the Fire Chief within fifteen days of the serving or
mailing of the determination of tax due. The Fire Chief shall fix a time and place for hearing
such appeal, and the Fire Chief shall give notice in writingto such tax payer at the last known
place of address. The finding of the Board of Directors shall be final and conclusive and shall be
served upon the appellant in the manner prescribed by this ordinance for service of notice of
hearing. Any amount found to be due shall be immediately due and payable upon the service
of the notice.

1.14	Enforcement - action to collect.

A.	Any taxes, penalties and/or fees required to be paid under the provisions of this
Ordinance shall be deemed a debt owed to the District. Any person owing money to the
District under the provisions of this Ordinance shall be liable in an action brought in the name
of the District for the recovery of such debt. The provisions of this Section shall not be deemed
a limitation upon the right of the District to bring any other action including criminal, civil and
equitable actions, based upon the failure to pay the tax, penalties and/or fees imposed by this
Ordinance or the failure to comply with any of the provisions of this Ordinance .

B.	In addition to any other remedies available under federal, state, or local law, if any
amount required to be paid to the District under this Ordinance is not paid when due, the
District may, within three (3) years after the amount is due, record a certificate of lien
specifying the amount of taxes, fees and penalties due, and the name and address of the
individual or business as it appears on the records of the County Treasurer-Tax Collector. From
the time of the filing for record, the amount required to be paid, together with penalties
thereon, constitutes a lien upon all real property in the District owned by the individual or
business, or subsequently acquired by the individual or business before the lien expires. The
lien has the force, effect, and priority of a judgment lien and shall continue for ten (10) years
from of filing of the certificate unless sooner released or otherwise discharged.

C.	At any time within three (3) years after any individual or business is delinquent in the
payment of any amount herein required to be paid or within three (3) years after the last
recording of a certificate of lien under Subsection B of this Section, the District may issue a
warrant for the enforcement of any liens and for the collection of any amount required to be
paid to the District under this Ordinance. The warrant shall be directed to the Sheriff and shall
have the same effect as a writ of execution. The warrant shall be levied, and sale made
pursuant to it in the same manner and with the same effect as a levy of and a sale pursuant to a
writ of execution. The District may pay or advance to the Sheriff, the same fees, commissions
and expenses for service provided by law for similar services pursuant to a writ of
execution. The District shall shall pay the fees for publication in the newspaper.

D.	At any time within three (3) years after recording a lien against any individual or
business, if the lien is not discharged and released in full, the District may forthwith seize any
asset or property, real or personal (including bank account), of the operator and sell at public
auction the asset or property, or a sufficient part of it to pay the amount due together with any
penalties and interest imposed for the delinquency and any cost incurred on account of the
seizure and sale. Assets or property of the business subject to seizure and sale subject to this
Ordinance shall not include any assets or property which is exempt from execution under the
provisions of Code of Civil Procedure.

1.15	Apportionment.

If a business subject to the tax is operating both within and outside the District area of the
County, it is the intent of the District to apply the commercial cannabis business tax only on the
portion within the District.

1.16 Constitutionality and legality.

This tax is intended to be applied in a manner consistent with the United States and California
Constitutions and state law. None of the tax provided for by this Ordinance shall be applied in a
manner that causes an undue burden upon interstate commerce, a violation of the equal
protection and due process clauses of the Constitutions of the United States or the State of
California or a violation of any other provision of the California Constitution or state law.

1.17

Audit and examination of records and equipment.

A.	The District snaii have the power to audit and examine all books and records of persons
engaged in cannabis businesses, including both state and federal income tax returns, California
sales tax returns, or other evidence documenting cannabis businesses, and, where necessary,
all equipment, of any person engaged in cannabis businesses in the District, for the purpose of
ascertaining the amount of commercial cannabis tax, if any, required to be paid by the
provisions hereof, and for the purpose of verifying any statements or any item thereof when
filed by any person pursuant to this Ordinance .

B.	It shall be the duty of every person liable for the collection and payment to the District of
any tax imposed by this Ordinance to keep and preserve, for a period of at least three (3) years,
all records as may be necessary to determine the amount of such tax as he or she may have
been liable for the collection of and payment to the District, the District shall have the right to
inspect at all reasonable times.

1.18 Other licenses, permits, taxes, fees or charges.

Nothing contained in this Ordinance 1 shall be deemed to repeal, amend, be in lieu of,
replace or in any way affect any requirements for any permit or license required by, under or by
virtue of any provision of any other code provision, ordinance, or resolution of the the District,
nor be deemed to repeal, amend, be in lieu of, replace or in any way affect any tax, fee or other
charge imposed, assessed or required by, under or by virtue of any other code provision,
ordinance, or resolution of the District. Any references made or contained in any other District
ordinance or resolution to any licenses, license taxes, fees, or charges, or to any schedule of
license fees, shall be deemed to refer to the licenses, license taxes, fees or charges, or schedule
of license fees, provided for in that District ordinance or resolution.

1.19 Payment of tax does not authorize unlawful business.

A.	The payment of a commercial cannabis business tax required by this Ordinance,
and its acceptance by the District, shall not entitle any person to carry on any cannabis business
unless the person has complied with all of the requirements of the District Fire Code, the
County Code, and all other applicable state and local laws.

B.	No tax paid under the provisions of this Ordinance shall be construed as authorizing the
conduct or continuance of any illegal or unlawful business, or any business in violation of any
local or state law.

1.20	Deficiency determinations.

If the District is not satisfied that any tax statement filed as required under the provisions of
this Ordinance is correct, or that the amount of tax is correctly computed, he or she may
compute and determine the amount to be paid and make a deficiency determination upon the
basis of the facts contained in the statement or upon the basis of any information in his or her
possession or that may come into his or her possession within three (3) years of the date the
tax was originally due and payable. One or more deficiency determinations of the amount of
tax due for a period or periods may be made. When a person discontinues engaging in a
business, a deficiency determination may be made at any time within three (3) years thereafter
as to any liability arising from engaging in such business whether or not a deficiency
determination is issued prior to the date the tax would otherwise be due. Whenever a
deficiency determination is made, a notice shall be given to the person concerned in the same
manner as notices of assessment are given.

1.21	Failure to report-nonpayment, fraud.

A.	Under any of the following circumstances, the District may make and give notice of an
assessment of the amount of tax owed by a person under this Ordinance at any time:

1.	If the person has not filed a complete statement required under the provisions of this
Ordinance ;

2.	If the person has not paid the tax due under the provisions of this Ordinance;

3.	If the person has not, after demand by the District, filed a corrected statement, or
furnished to the District adequate substantiation of the information contained in a statement
already filed, or paid any additional amount of tax due under the provisions of this Ordinance ;
or

1.22	Tax assessment - notice requirements.

The notice of assessment shall be served upon the person either by persona! delivery, or by a
deposit of the notice in the United States mail, postage prepaid thereon, addressed to the
person at the address of the location of the business or to such other address as he or she shall
register with the District for the purpose of receiving notices provided under this Ordinance ;
or, should the person have no address registered with the District for such purpose, then to
such person's last known address. For the purposes of this Section, a service by mail is
complete at the time of deposit in the United States mail.

1.23

Severability.

If any provision of this Ordinance , or its application to any person or circumstance, is
determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be unlawful, unenforceable or otherwise
void, that determination shall have no effect on any other provision of this Ordinance or the
application of this Ordinance to any other person or circumstance and, to that end, the
provisions hereof are severable.

1.24 Amendment or repeal.

Ordinance 1.5 of this ordinance may be repealed or amended by the Board of Directors
without a vote of the people to the extent allowed by law. However, as required by Article XIII
C of the California Constitution, voter approval is required for any amendment that would
increase the rate of any tax levied pursuant to this Ordinance . The people of the Monterey
County Regional Fire District may affirm that the following actions shall not constitute an
increase of the rate of a tax:

A.	The restoration of the rate of the tax to a rate that is no higher than that set by this
Ordinance , if the Board of Directors has acted to reduce the rate of the tax;

B.	An action that interprets or clarifies the methodology of the tax, or any definition
applicable to the tax, so long as interpretation or clarification (even if contrary to some prior
interpretation or clarification) is not inconsistent with the language of this Ordinance ; or

C.	The collection of the tax imposed by this Ordinance , even if the District had, for some
period of time, failed to collect the tax.

SECTION 3. SEVERABILITY. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this
ordinance is for any reason held to be invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions of this ordinance. The Board of Directors hereby declares that it would have
passed this ordinance and each section, subsection, sentence, clause and phrase thereof,
irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, subsections, sentences, clauses, or
phrases be declared invalid.

SECTION 4. CEQA DETERMINATION. The Board of Directors of the Monterey County Regional
Fire District finds and determines that this ordinance is not a project within the meaning of
section 15378 of the California Environmental Quality Act ("CEQA'') because it has no potential
for resulting in physical change in the environment, either directly or ultimately. In the event
that this ordinance is found to be a project under CEQA, it is subject to the CEQA exemptions
contained in CEQA Guidelines sections 15061(b)(3), 15308, and 15321 because it can be seen
with certainty to have no possibility of a significant effect on the environment in that this
ordinance extends existing local regulations, constitutes actions to protect the environment,
and enforces regulations. The ordinance is also statutorily exempt from CEQA as it provides a
funding mechanism to meet operating expenses.

SECTION 5. EFFECTIVE DATE. This ordinance shall become effective on the thirty-first day
following its adoption. This ordinance shall become operative on August 1, 2018 and only if
approved by 2/3 of the voters voting on the tax at an election.

SECTION 6. BOARD OF DIRECTORS AMENDMENTS. The Board of Directors of the Monterey
County Regional Fire District is hereby authorized to adopt this ordinance in any manner that
does not increase the tax rate above the maximum rate specified for each category of business
or otherwise constitute a tax increase for which voter approval is required by Article XIII C of
the California Constitution.

PASSED AND ADOPTED , by the following vote:

AYES: DIRECTORS:HAINES,SLATEN,POITRAS,SPECIALE
NOES:

ABSTAIN:

ATTEST:

Warren Poitras, President of the Board

APPROVED AS TO FORM:

Advertising Order Confirmation

Ad Number	Color

0006188628-01

External Ad Number	Pick	Up

NOTICE OF Adopting
an Ordinance
2018-01 Commercial
Cannabis Business
Tax

NOTICE IS HEREBY
GIVEN that a Public
Hearing will be held
by the Board of Di-
rectors of the Monte-
rey County Regional
Fire District on July
31, 2018, at 4:00 p.m.,
at 19900 Portola Drive
Salinas,	California

93908 for the purpose
of adopting
ORDINANCE NO. 2018-
01 AN ORDINANCE OF
THE	MONTEREY

COUNTY REGIONAL
FIRE DISTRICT, IM-
POSING A COMMER-
CIAL CANNABIS BUSI-
NESS TAX ON COM-
MERCIAL CANNABIS
BUSINESS AS AP-
PROVED BY THE VOT-
ERS MEASURE H

Information regard-
ing Ordinance 2018-
01 is available be-
tween the hours of
8:00 a.m. and 5:00
p.m. at the Fire
Chief's office, 19900
Portola Drive Salinas,
California 93908.
Published by Order
of the Board of Direc-
tors.

Michael Urquides,
Fire Chief
7/17, 7/21/2018

Product

Monterey Herald

Requested Placement
Legals CLS

The Monterey County Herald

MONTI:RI-:VHl:RAI.I).COM ADVENTURES MONTEREY BAY HEALTH MATTERS WHO'S COUNTING? GO!

Production Color	Ad Attributes	Production Method Production	Notes

AdBooker

Ad Type	Released	for	Publication

Legal Liner

Requested Position	Run Dates	#	Inserts

General Legal - 1076-	07/17/18,	07/21/18	2

Order Charges:

Net Amount Tax Amount

Total Amount

212.76	0.00

212.76

Payment Amount
0.00

9:48:00AM
Page 2

Amount Due
$212.76

Please note If you pay by bank card, your card statement will show" CAL NEWSPAPER ADV or "CALIFORNIA NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING SERVICES", depending on the type of card used.