NOTICE OF A MEASURE TO ADOPT A SPECIAL
TAX AND NOTICE OF DATE FIXED FOR
SUBMITTING ARGUMENTS

A verification statement signed by the authors must
accompany all arguments; a sample of this form is
available by calling the Elections Office.

NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN to the qualified
electors of the Diablo Community Services District
located in the County of Contra Costa, State of
California, that in accordance with applicable law, a
Special Mail Ballot Election will be held on
Tuesday, the 6th day of March, 2018 in the Diablo
Community Services District for the purpose of
submitting to the electors, the following measure, to
be displayed on each individual ballot to wit:

DIABLO COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT MEASURE TO ADOPT A SPECIAL TAX	
To provide for road, bridge, culvert and trail maintenance and improvements, and security/police protection services for the community, shall the Diablo Community Services District adopt an ordinance to levy an annual special tax upon taxable properties within the District at a rate of $662.26 per improved parcel, $128.06 per unimproved parcel, and $23,444.68 for Diablo Country Club parcels, including an annual inflation adjustment, providing $285,000/year initially, and replace the existing fees?	YES
	NO

Pursuant to Section 9501 of the Elections Code,
one argument for and one argument against this
measure will be selected for printing and
distribution to the voters with the sample ballot.

The Elections Official will also provide opportunity
for rebuttal arguments in accordance with Section
9167 of the Elections Code. Rebuttal arguments
shall not exceed 250 words and must be filed no
later than 5:00 p.m., Friday, December 22, 2017.

For more information on filing arguments, call the
Election Division at (925) 335-7800.

DATED: December 5, 2017

JOSEPH CANCIAMILLA, COUNTY CLERK

By:_____________________________________

Rosa Mena, Elections Supervisor

If 2/3 of the voters voting on this measure vote
“Yes” the measure will pass.

Primary arguments for or against this measure may
be submitted to the Contra Costa County Elections
Division, 555 Escobar St., Martinez, CA 94553, not
later than 5:00 p.m., Monday, December 18, 2017,
which has been determined by the Elections Official
to be a reasonable date based upon the time
necessary to prepare and print arguments. No
argument shall exceed 300 words in length.

NOTA:

Si desea obtener la version en Espafiol de este aviso legal,
puede solicitar una copia de la misma llamando al
Departamento de Elecciones, (925) 335-7800.

RESOLUTION NO. 2017-02

A RESOLUTION OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE DIABLO COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
PROPOSING TO ADOPT A SPECIAL TAX, CALLING FOR A SPECIAL MAILED BALLOT ELECTION TO BE HELD
ON MARCH 6, 2018, ORDERING THAT A QUESTION RELATING TO THE LEVY OF A SPECIAL TAX BE
SUBMITTED TO THE QUALIFIED VOTERS AT THE SPECIAL ELECTION, REQUESTING THAT THE BOARD OF
SUPERVISORS OF CONTRA COSTA COUNTY CONSENT TO THE CONSOLIDATION OF THE SPECIAL
DISTRICT ELECTION WITH ANY OTHER ELECTION CONDUCTED ON SAID DATE, AND REQUESTING
ELECTION SERVICES BY THE CONTRA COSTA COUNTY ELECTIONS DEPARTMENT

WHEREAS, the Diablo Community Services District Board of Directors (the “Board”) is authorized and charged to
provide ongoing road, bridge and culvert maintenance and improvements, provide security, police protection and law
enforcement services (collectively “security services”) to its residents and guests, and maintain the equestrian trail
between Alameda Diablo and Mt. Diablo Scenic Blvd. of Diablo Community Services District (the “District’) boundaries;

WHEREAS, the Board has determined that it is in the best interests of the District's citizens to ensure the ongoing and
long-term fiscal integrity of the District while continuing to provide the appropriate levels of road, bridge, culvert and
trail maintenance and security services for the local community;

WHEREAS, the Board has previously adopted and currently collects a security fee and road maintenance fee
pursuant to District Code chapters 3-2 and 3-4 (the “Current Fees”);

WHEREAS, the Board has determined, in light of the increased demands on District maintenance, improvements, and
security services costs, that it must request the support and approval by the voters to replace the Current Fees with a
new special tax on taxable real property within the District to provide increased and reliable revenues that can be used to
fund the services provided by the District;

WHEREAS, pursuant to the provisions of Government Code sections 50075-50077.5, 53720-53730, 61121(a),
Elections Code section 12001, and other applicable law, the Board is authorized to adopt this resolution which shall,
subject to the approval of the voters, impose a special tax, which shall be applied against all taxable real property within
the District;

WHEREAS, the Board has also determined that it is in the best interest of the community to seek voter approval, which
will require approval by two-thirds voters voting thereon, for the proposed special tax in order to be able to provide the
appropriate service levels;

WHEREAS, if approved by the voters, the proposed special tax will be used solely for the purpose of the services
provided within the District, with all funds staying in the local community comprised of the District's boundaries; and

WHEREAS, if the proposed special tax is approved by the voters, it shall replace in its entirety the Current Fees.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE DIABLO COMMUNITY SERVICES
DISTRICT AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1. It is the determination of the District that the question of the special tax shall be put to the voters in the District
at a special all-mailed ballot election to be held on the 6th day of March, 2018. The special tax shall not become effective
unless approved by two-thirds of the registered voters of the District voting thereon. The Board hereby submits the
proposed special tax to the voters and orders the following question to be presented to the voters at the election:

To provide for road, bridge, culvert and trail maintenance and improvements, and security/police
protection services for the community, shall the Diablo Community Services District adopt an
ordinance to levy an annual special tax upon taxable properties within the District at a rate of $662.26
per improved parcel, $128.06 per unimproved parcel, and $23,444.68 for Diablo Country Club parcels,
including an annual inflation adjustment, providing $285,000/year initially, and replace the existing
fees?

Yes____	No

Section 2. Consolidation of Election. An all-mailed ballot election is hereby called for the purpose of submitting to the
qualified voters within the District, the question of the adoption of a special tax for the services provided by the District.
This election shall be consolidated with any other applicable election conducted on the same day. The election shall
be held and conducted as provided by law applicable to an all-mailed ballot election on a special tax measure.

Section 3. Use of Funding. If approved by the voters, the special tax will be used solely for the purpose of supporting
and providing road, bridge and culvert maintenance and improvements, equestrian trail maintenance and security
services within the District.

Section 4. Election Services and Canvassing. The District hereby requests the County Elections Department, at
District expense, to provide all necessary election services and to canvass and report the results of the election.

Section 5. Election Costs. Pursuant to Elections Code Section 10002, the District shall reimburse Contra Costa County
in full for the services performed upon presentation of a bill to the District.

Section 6. Special Tax Imposed. The Board proposes to adopt an annual special tax on each taxable parcel within
the District as follows (which is more fully described in the proposed ordinance attached as Exhibit “A” to this
Resolution):

Property Type	2018-19	Special	Tax

Improved Parcels	$662.26/parcel
Unimproved Parcels	$128.06/parcel
Country Club Parcels	$23,444.68

Section 7. Inflation Adjustment. The special tax rates would be subject to an annual inflation adjustment as provided
in the proposed ordinance (Ex. A).

Section 8. Increase of Appropriations Limit. Pursuant to Article XIMB of the California Constitution, the appropriations
limit of the District shall be increased in the amount equal to the proceeds of the special tax (if approved by the voters).
The increase in the District's spending limit shall be deemed effective beginning in the 2018-19 fiscal year.

PASSED AND ADOPTED at a regular meeting of the Board of Directors of Diablo Community Services District,
County of Contra Costa, held on the 14th day of November, 2017 by the following vote:

AYES:	Brant,	Torru,	Urbelis,	Langon

NOES:

ABSENT:

ABSTAIN:

2

EXHIBIT “A”

AN ORDINANCE OF THE DIABLO COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
ADOPTING A SPECIAL TAX FOR ROAD AND EQUESTRIAN TRAIL MAINTENANCE
AND IMPROVEMENTS AND SECURITY/POLICE PROTECTION SERVICES

The people of the Diablo Community Services District do ordain as follows:

Section 1. Findings

The District hereby finds and declares that the District's ability to provide services depends upon the availability of
funds to support those services. The special tax adopted by this ordinance, if approved by a two-thirds vote of the
voters, will provide for a dedicated and secure funding source to provide necessary services to the District. This special
tax is intended to also create reserve funds thereby permitting periodic capital improvements and replacement of the
assets used to provide the special tax-funded services.

Section 2. Authorized Special Tax Purposes

Special tax revenues collected under this ordinance shall be deposited in a special fund and shall be used by the District
only for the provision of the following services: acquire, construct, improve, and maintain streets, roads, rights-of-way
(including the equestrian trail between Alameda Diablo and Mt. Diablo Scenic Blvd.), bridges, culverts, drains, curbs,
gutters, sidewalks, and incidental works; police protection, law enforcement, and security services; and, creation of
reserve funds for the repair, replacement and improvement of the capital assets used in connection with these
services.

Section 3. Definitions

“Acre” means the land area of an Assessor’s Parcel as shown on County records, such as an Assessor’s Parcel Map
and secured roll data, or, if the land area is not shown on an Assessor’s Parcel Map, the land area shown on the
applicable final subdivision map, condominium plan, record of survey, or other recorded document creating or describing
the parcel. If the preceding maps for a land area are not available, the Acreage of such land area may be determined
utilizing available spatial data and GIS (Geographic Information System) data.

“CPI” means the annual percentage change in the Consumer Price Index published by the U.S. Bureau of Labor
Statistics for All Urban Consumers in the San Francisco-Oakland-San Jose Area, as measured as of December each
succeeding year. In the event this index ceases to be published, the CPI shall be another index that is reasonably
comparable to the Consumer Price Index for the San Francisco-Oakland San Jose Area.

“Board” means District Board of Directors.

“Fiscal Year” means the period starting July 1 and ending on the following June 30.

“Country Club Parcels” mean the taxable land within the District that includes the site of the following Contra Costa
County Assessor Parcel Numbers: 195-160-002-0, 195-170-002-8, 195-170-004-4, 195-170-002-8, 195-210-038-4,
195-210-041-8, 195-220-001-0, 195-220-006-9, 195-230-006-7, 195-230-012-5, and 195-380-005-7. If these parcels
change in future years, the assigned Diablo Country Club property special tax shall be levied on the successor parcels
and the successor parcels shall be the ‘Country Club Parcels’.

“Improved Parcel” shall mean each parcel within the District (other than the Country Club Parcels) that contains a
significant improved structure (e.g., with water, power, sewer, utilities, bathrooms, etc.) typically with a landscaped area
less than or equal to one (1) acre.

“Unimproved Parcel” means taxable vacant land within the District (other than the Country Club Parcels) that does not
contain a significant improved structure with an effective area less than or equal to one (1) acre. For example, taxable
vacant, unimproved land of 8.4 acres would constitute 9 Unimproved Parcels.

3

Section 4. Special Tax Rate

There is hereby imposed a special tax upon the owners of the Country Club Parcels and every Improved Parcel and
Unimproved Parcel to be levied and collected (if approved by the voters) commencing July 1, 2018, based upon the
following property type classifications and special tax rates:

Property Type______________________ 2018-19	Special	Tax	H)

Improved Parcels	$662.26/parcel
Unimproved Parcels	$128.06/parcel
Country Club Parcels	$23,444.68 (for all parcels)

d) Subject to automatic annual adjustments described in Section 5 below.

This special tax is adopted pursuant to Government Code sections 50075-50077.5, 53720-53730, and 61121(a), and
other applicable law. For the Fiscal Year beginning July 1,2018, and annually thereafter, the Board may elect to impose
a lesser special tax than the authorized maximum special tax rate applicable for the Fiscal Year. If necessary to meet
expenses, the Board may adjust the actual special tax rate during a Fiscal Year so long as the actual special tax rate
does not exceed the maximum allowable special tax rate for that Fiscal Year. If the Board elects to impose a lesser
special tax in a Fiscal Year, then in any later Fiscal Year the Board may elect to impose up to the full authorized
maximum special tax rate.

The special tax is due from each owner of record of a parcel within the District as reflected upon the rolls of the County
Assessor at the same time as the ad valorem property tax is due and is to be collected in the same manner.

Section 5. Automatic Adjustment

Commencing July 1,2019 and every July 1 thereafter, the special tax rates specified in Section 4 shall be automatically
adjusted by the CPI or three percent (3%), whichever is greater. Regardless of whether the special tax rate has been
reduced to an amount below the maximum special tax rate pursuant to Section 4, the special tax rate applicable for the
following year shall be the maximum special tax rate that would have otherwise been levied.

Section 6. Collection

For Fiscal Year 2018-19 and thereafter, the special tax shall be collected by the Contra Costa County Tax Collector in
the same manner as, together with, and subject to the same penalties and interest as the regular County ad valorem
property tax bill. The District may, at the sole discretion of the Board, directly bill and collect the special tax at a different
time or in a different manner as necessary or appropriate to meet its financial obligations. Any unpaid taxes shall be
subject to the same penalties for non-payment as are other District taxes, fees and/or charges. Any special tax required
to be paid by a District property owner under this ordinance shall be deemed a debt owed by the property owner to the
District. Any property owner owing money to the District under this ordinance shall be liable in an action brought in the
name of the District for the collection of such amount, together with any penalties and interest.

Section 7. Appeals

Any landowner or resident who contends that the classification of its property is in error or that the calculation of the
special tax is in error may file a notice with the Secretary to the Board appealing the special tax. The District General
Manager will then review the appeal and alleged error, and, if appropriate, meet with the appellant. If the General Manager
determines that an error was made, then, as appropriate, the special tax levy shall be corrected. If the landowner or
resident disagrees with the General Manager’s determination, the landowner or resident may file an appeal with the
Board. The findings and determination of the Board, made after affording the landowner or resident opportunity to be
heard by the Board, shall be final and conclusive.

4

Section 8. Interpretation and Amendment

Interpretations may be made by the Board by resolution for purpose of clarifying any vagueness or ambiguity as it
relates to the special tax or this ordinance. The Board may amend this ordinance at any time; provided, however, that
any ordinance amendment that increases the special tax rate above the rate approved by the voters at the March 6,
2018 election shall become effective only if approved by two-thirds vote of the District voters voting on the issue.

Section 9. Severability

If any provision of this special tax measure or the application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid,
such invalidity shall not affect any other provision of application, and to this end the provisions of this special tax measure
are declared to be severable.

Section 10. Separate Accounting and Expenditure

The special tax revenues shall be deposited into a separate account held by the District, in accordance with
Government Code Section 50075.1, and shall be expended according to a budget developed annually by the District
staff and approved and adopted by the Board.

Section 11. Annual Reporting

The District's chief fiscal officer will cause to be prepared and filed an annual report with the Board no later than January
1, 2019, and at least once a year thereafter. The report shall include the amount of special tax revenues collected and
expended, and which shall otherwise comply with the accountability measures established in Government Code
Sections 50075.1 - 50075.3.and 12463.2.

Section 12. Effective Date and Term

This special tax shall be deemed established and shall be in effect as of the day following the election date of March 6,
2018, upon certification of the election results evidencing approval by at least two-thirds of the participating registered
voters, and declared by the Board. If approved by the voters, the special tax shall be levied against all taxable real
property within the District beginning with the 2018-2019 fiscal year and shall continue until repealed by the Board or
by two-thirds vote of the voters.

Section 13. Validation

Pursuant to the provisions of Government Code Section 50077.5, any judicial action or proceeding to attack,
review, set aside, void or annul this ordinance or the approval of the special tax or increase in the spending
limitation pertaining to the special property tax shall be commenced, if at all, within 60 days of the date of the effective
date of the ordinance.

Section 14. Fee Repeal

District Code chapters 3-2 and 3-4 (concerning the security fee and road maintenance fee) are repealed concurrent
with the approval of the special tax.

I certify that this ordinance was adopted by a two-thirds vote of the people of the Diablo Community Services District
on March 6,2018.

General Manager
Attest:

5

Secretary

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE___________

The Diablo community is beautiful, close-knit, and family-friendly, and it provides us with an
exceptional quality of life. We need to ensure that Diablo, including our aging infrastructure,
continues to be well-maintained, and that our residents continue to feel safe and be well-
protected.

Since 1969 the Diablo Community Services District (the "DCSD") has maintained our roads,
bridges, culverts and trail, and provided local security/police protection services for our residents.
Each year, the DCSD's Board of Directors works hard to stretch the limited annual budget to
continue providing the high-level of service that our residents expect.

In the past year, our local infrastructure has shown increased need for long-term repairs,
including the unexpected culvert failure and corresponding emergency road repair. Based upon
careful financial and engineering analysis, the Board of Directors is proposing a modest $71
annual increase per improved lot ($14 per unimproved lot) to its budget to ensure continued
maintenance, and prepare for other future repairs, renovations and unforeseen emergencies.

Measure____will allow the DCSD to continue the current level of maintenance and operations for

our roads, bridges, culverts and trail, as well as continue providing responsive security services,

and support dedicated funding for critical infrastructure replacement. Measure_will replace the

current "Diablo Service Dist" amount on your property tax bill with a new amount that includes a
$71 increase to the current base fee.

Please join us in voting Yes on Measure_to continue providing the services to keep our

community beautiful and safe.

The undersigned Proponent(s) or Author(s) hereby state that such argument is true and correct
to the best of their knowledge and belief.

PrintName:

Title:

Signature^

Print Name: \/|kI Og . C'NNta

Title:	yO\c-v^~v"	/_________

Signature:	/A.	'

Print Name:
Title:

uu>

Signaturi^^ 2/^

oca)

Print Name:

Tltle; Ty^T-)	rcjf	rC

Signature:

Print Name
Title:

