EXHIBIT “A”

VOTE FOR ONE

MERCED COMMERCIAL CANNABIS
BUSINESS TAX. Generating approximately
$1,000,000 annually locally to fund Merced
Police, Fire, Parks, Recreation services such as
911 emergency response; neighborhood-based
policing; fire/gang prevention services; skilled
police officers and firefighters; and safe, clean
parks; shall the City of Merced adopt an
ordinance authorizing an annual commercial
cannabis business tax of up to: $25 per square
foot of cultivation space, or 10% of gross
receipts until ended by voters, with independent
citizens oversight?________________________

YES	(+)
NO	(+)

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

The following impartial analysis of the measure was prepared by the office of the Merced City
Attorney:

Measure Y was placed on the ballot by the City of Merced City Council asking voters to consider
a Commercial Cannabis (marijuana) Business Tax of up to 10% on gross receipts or $25 per square
foot of cultivation space, whichever is greater, on all permitted commercial cannabis businesses in
Merced. Specifically, the proposed Commercial Cannabis Business Tax would impose a tax up to
the maximum of:

Gross receipts up to a maximum of 7% on medicinal retail and 10% on adult use retail;
$25 per square foot on manufacturing;

The greater of 10% or $25 per square foot on indoor cultivation;

$4 per square foot on nurseries;

The greater of 10% or $5 per square foot on distribution, and

$1 per square foot on testing.

Currently, the Merced Municipal Code only allows four commercial cannabis dispensaries to
operate within the City of Merced. The Commercial Cannabis Business Tax would not change
this.

The Commercial Cannabis Business Tax would apply to any business activity involving the
cultivating, manufacturing, processing, storing, laboratory testing, labeling, packaging,
transporting, distributing, delivering, or sale of adult-use or medicinal cannabis or adult-use or
medicinal cannabis products by commercial cannabis businesses in Merced. The Commercial
Cannabis Business Tax would not apply to the legal cultivation of cannabis for personal medicinal
or adult use allowed under the Merced Municipal Code and state law. The tax is only on
commercial cannabis businesses and it is not a sales tax imposed on individuals purchasing adult-
use or medicinal cannabis.

Measure Y, if enacted by the voters, would raise revenue for specific governmental purposes for
the City of Merced and not for purposes of regulation. The City has estimated that tax proposed
by Measure Y would raise approximately $1,000,000 annually. All of the proceeds from the tax
imposed by Measure Y shall be used exclusively to fund local fire and police protection services
and park and recreation services and cannot be spent for any other purpose. Under Measure Y,
local police, fire protection and parks/recreation services shall each receive a minimum of twenty
percent (20%) of the tax revenues annually. The effect of this additional restriction on the proposed
tax on future City budgets has not been determined.

The tax would continue until repealed by the voters or by the City Council. The tax could be set
at a lower rate by action of the City Council, but cannot be increased without the approval of the
voters.

4821-9464-8414v2
JH\24891001

-1-

A “Yes” vote on Measure Y would approve the Commercial Cannabis Business Tax and authorize
the City to impose a Commercial Cannabis Business Tax. A “No” vote would reject the
Commercial Cannabis Business Tax. Measure Y would be approved if it receives two-thirds of
“Yes” votes.

Jolie Houston, Merced Interim City Attorney

The entire text of Measure Y will be printed in the Voter Information Guide for the June 5, 2018
election.

4821-9464-8414v2
JH\24891001

-2-

ORDINANCE NO._________

AN ORDINANCE OF THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF MERCED, CALIFORNIA,
ADDING CHAPTER 3.52 TO THE CITY OF MERCED MUNICPAL CODE,
APPROVING AND IMPLEMENTING A COMMERCIAL CANNABIS BUSINESS TAX

THE PEOPLE OF CITY OF MERCED ORDAIN:

SECTION 1. Special Tax.

The Commercial Cannabis Business Tax is enacted solely to raise revenue for specific
governmental purposes for the City of Merced and not for purposes of regulation. All of the
proceeds from the tax imposed by this Ordinance shall be used exclusively to fund local police
and fire protection services and parks and recreation services and cannot be spent for any other
purpose. Local police, fire protection and parks/recreation services shall each receive a
minimum of twenty percent (20%) of the tax revenues annually.

SECTION 2. Purpose.

To impose a tax on the privilege of cultivating, manufacturing, processing, storing,
laboratory testing, labeling, packaging, transporting, distributing, delivering, or sale of adult-use
or medicinal cannabis or adult-use or medicinal cannabis products by commercial cannabis
businesses in the City of Merced. Only commercial cannabis businesses are liable for the tax.

It is not a sales tax or other tax levied upon recreational cannabis users or medical marijuana
patients, nor is it a tax on real property. These revenues will remain locally-controlled and are
not subject to seizure by the State. All revenues are required to be spent in the City of Merced
for local police and fire services and parks and recreation services.

SECTION 3. A new City of Merced Municipal Code Chapter 3.52 is hereby adopted to read:

COMMERCIAL CANNABIS BUSINESS TAX

3.52.100 Imposition of Tax.

3.52.200 Definitions.

3.52.300 Payment Obligation.

3.52.400 Remittance.

3.52.500 Payment of Tax Does Not Authorize Unlawful Business or Activity.

3.52.600 Modification, Repeal or Amendment.

3.52.700	Use of Tax Proceeds
3.52.800 Administration.

3.52.100 Imposition of Tax.

A.	Tax on Commercial Cannabis Cultivation:

1.	Every person engaged in commercial cannabis cultivation in the city limits of
the City of Merced shall pay an annual commercial cannabis business tax of
up to the greater of (i) $25.00 per square foot of canopy area or (ii) 10% of
gross receipts. The canopy area shall be the greater of (i) the maximum

canopy square footage authorized by the State license issued to the
commercial cannabis business or (ii) the actual canopy area of the business.
In no case shall the canopy square footage not utilized under a permit be
deducted for the purpose of determining the tax.

2.	Notwithstanding the maximum tax rate established by this chapter, the City
Council may at its discretion, at any time by resolution, implement a lower tax
rate for all persons engaged in commercial cannabis cultivation within the
City of Merced city limits for different categories of commercial cannabis
cultivation subject to the maximum rate established in subsection (A)(1). The
City Council may, by resolution, also increase any such tax rate from time to
time, not to exceed the maximum tax rate established in subsection (A)(1).

3.	Subject to modification by the City Council as set forth in this subsection (A),
the initial rate of the annual commercial cannabis business tax for each person
engaged in commercial cannabis cultivation shall, for each such business, be
the greater of (i) $7.00 per square foot of cultivation area or (ii) 4% of gross
receipts.

B.	Tax on Commercial Cannabis Nurseries:

1.	Every person operating a commercial cannabis nursery in the city limits of the
City of Merced shall pay an annual commercial cannabis business tax at a
rate of up to $4.00 per square foot of nursery area. The nursery area shall
include all areas of the commercial business that contain cannabis plants in
the immature stage as defined by the State.

2.	Notwithstanding the maximum tax rate established by this chapter, the City
Council may at its discretion, at any time by resolution, implement a lower tax
rate for all persons engaged in commercial cannabis nurseries within the City
of Merced city limits subject to the maximum rate established in subsection
(B)(1). The City Council may, by resolution, also increase any such tax rate
from time to time, not to exceed the maximum tax rate established in
subsection (B)(1).

3.	Subject to modification by the City Council as set forth in this subsection (B),
the initial rate of the annual commercial cannabis business tax for each
person operating a commercial cannabis nursery shall be $0.50 per square
foot of nursery area

C.	Tax on Commercial Cannabis Manufacturing:

1.	Every person engaged in commercial cannabis manufacturing in the city
limits of the City of Merced shall pay an annual commercial cannabis
business tax at a rate of up to $25.00 per square foot of manufacturing area.

2.	Notwithstanding the maximum tax rate established by this chapter, the City
Council may at its discretion, at any time by resolution, implement a lower tax
rate for all persons engaged in commercial cannabis manufacturing within the
City of Merced city limits subject to the maximum rate established in
subsection (C)(1). The City Council may, by resolution, also increase any

EXHIBIT B-Page 2

such tax rate from time to time, not to exceed the maximum tax rate
established in subsection (C)(1).

3.	Subject to modification by the City Council as set forth in this subsection (C)
the initial rate of the annual commercial cannabis business tax for each person
engaged in commercial cannabis manufacturing shall be $7.00 per square foot
of manufacturing area.

D.	Tax on Commercial Cannabis Distribution:

1.	Every person engaged in commercial cannabis distribution in the city limits of
the City of Merced shall pay an annual commercial cannabis business tax at
a rate of up to the greater of (i) $5.00 per square foot of building or (ii) 10% of
gross receipts.

2.	Notwithstanding the maximum tax rate established by this chapter, the City
Council may at its discretion, at any time by resolution, implement a lower tax
rate for all persons engaged in commercial cannabis distribution within the
City of Merced city limits subject to the maximum rate established in
subsection (D)(1). The City Council may, by resolution, also increase any
such tax rate from time to time, not to exceed the maximum tax rate
established in subsection (D)(1).

3.	Subject to modification by the City Council as set forth in this subsection (D)
the initial rate of the annual commercial cannabis business tax for each
person engaged in commercial cannabis distribution shall, for each such
businesses, be the greater of (i) $1.00 per square foot of distribution area
annually or (ii) 2% of gross receipts. .

E.	Tax on Commercial Cannabis Retailing:

1.	Every person engaged in commercial cannabis retailing in the city limits of
the City of Merced shall pay an annual commercial cannabis business tax at
a rate of up to 10% on gross receipts for adult-use retail and a rate of up 7%
on gross receipts for medicinal retail.

2.	Notwithstanding the maximum tax rate established by this chapter, the City
Council may at its discretion, at any time by resolution, implement a lower tax
rate for all persons engaged in commercial cannabis retailing within the City
of Merced city limits subject to the maximum rate established in subsection
(E)(1). The City Council may, by resolution, also increase any such tax rate
from time to time, not to exceed the maximum tax rate established in
subsection (E)(1).

3.	Subject to modification by the City Council as set forth in this subsection (E)
the initial rate of the annual commercial cannabis business tax for each person
engaged in commercial cannabis retailing shall be 4% of gross receipts for
medicinal retail and 7% of gross receipts for adult-use retail.

F.	Tax on Commercial Cannabis Testing:

EXHIBIT B-Page 3

1.	Every person engaged in commercial cannabis testing in the city limits of the
City of Merced shall pay an annual commercial cannabis business tax at a
rate of up to $1.00 per square foot of building area.

2.	Notwithstanding the maximum tax rate established by this chapter, the City
Council may at its discretion, at any time by resolution, implement a lower tax
rate for all persons engaged in commercial cannabis testing within the City of
Merced city limits subject to the maximum rate established in subsection
(F)(1). The City Council may, by resolution, also increase any such tax rate
from time to time, not to exceed the maximum tax rate established in
subsection (F)(1).

3.	Subject to modification by the City Council as set forth in this subsection (F)
the initial rate of the annual commercial cannabis business tax for each person
engaged in commercial cannabis testing shall be $0.25 per square foot of
building area.

3.52.200 Definitions.

For the purposes of this Chapter.

A.	“Business tax” or “Commercial Cannabis Business Tax” means the tax due pursuant
to this Chapter for engaging in lawful commercial cannabis business in the City of Merced.

B.	"Cannabis" means all parts of the Cannabis sativa Linnaeus, Cannabis Indica, or
Cannabis ruderalis, whether growing or not; the seeds thereof; the resin, whether crude or
purified, extracted from any part of the plant; and every compound, manufacture, salt,
derivative, mixture, or preparation of the plant, its seeds, or resin. "Cannabis" also means the
separated resin, whether crude or purified, obtained from marijuana. "Cannabis" also means
marijuana as defined by Section 11018 of the California Health and Safety Code as enacted by
Chapter 14017 of the Statutes of 1972. "Cannabis" does not include the mature stalks of the
plant, fiber produced from the stalks, oil or cake made from the seeds of the plant, any other
compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of the mature stalks (except the
resin extracted therefrom), fiber, oil, or cake, or the sterilized seed of the plant which is
incapable of germination. Forthe purpose of this chapter, "cannabis" does not mean industrial
hemp as that term is defined by Section 81000 of the California Food and Agricultural Code or
Section 11018.5 of the California Health and Safety Code.

C.	“Canopy Area” means all premises that contains mature plants at any point in time;
including all of the space within the boundaries. If mature plants are being cultivated using a
shelving system, the surface area of each level shall be included in the total canopy calculation.

D.	“Commercial Cannabis Business” means any commercial business activity relating to
cannabis, including but not limited to cultivating, manufacturing, processing, storing, laboratory
testing, labeling, packaging, transporting, distributing, delivering, or sale of cannabis, medicinal
cannabis or a cannabis or medicinal cannabis product, except as related Business and
Professions Code Section 19319, and as they may be amended or Health and Safety Code
Sections 11362.1 through 11362.45 and as they may be amended.

E.	"Commercial Cannabis Cultivation" means any activity, other than a Cannabis
Nursery as defined in subsection H, involving the propagation, planting, growing, harvesting,
drying, curing, grading, ortrimming of cannabis for non-personal use.

EXHIBIT B-Page 4

F.	"Commercial Cannabis Distribution" means the procurement, sale, and transport of
cannabis or cannabis products between entities licensed pursuant to the Medical and Adult Use
of Cannabis Regulation and Safety Act and any subsequent State of California legislation
regarding the same.

G.	"Commercial Cannabis Manufacturing" means any aspect of the cannabis extraction and
infusion processes, including processing, preparing, holding, storing, packaging, or labeling of
cannabis products. Cannabis manufacturing also includes any processing, preparing, holding, or
storing of components and ingredients. Cannabis Manufacturing does not include Cannabis
Distribution or Cultivation.

H.	“Commercial Cannabis Nursery” means a facility that produces only clones, immature
plants, seeds, and other agricultural products used specifically for the planting, propagation, and
cultivation of cannabis for non-personal use.

I.	“Commercial Cannabis Retailing " means business, other than a business all of
whose sales constitute Cannabis Distribution, where cannabis, cannabis products, or devices
for the use of cannabis or cannabis products are offered, either individually or in any
combination for sale, including an establishment that delivers cannabis or cannabis products as
part of a sale.

1.	“Adult-Use Cannabis Retailing” means any Commercial Cannabis Retailing that
does not qualify as Medicinal Cannabis Retailing, such as sales intended for adults
21 years of age and over and who do not possess a physician’s recommendation.

2.	“Medicinal Cannabis Retailing” means the sale of cannabis or cannabis products that
are intended for cannabis patients who possess a physician’s recommendation for
the use of cannabis.

J.	"Commercial Cannabis Testing" means a facility, entity, or site that offers or performs
tests of cannabis or cannabis products, and that is accredited as operating to ISO standard
17025 by an accrediting body, and registered with the State Department of Public Health.

K.	“Cultivation area” means all portions of the premises deducting therefrom driveways,
sidewalks, landscaping, manufacturing area, nursery area, vacant unused space, areas used
exclusively for office space, employee break rooms, restrooms, and storage space unrelated to
the commercial cannabis business (such as a janitorial closet).

L.	“Gross receipts” means the total amount actually received or receivable from all
cannabis sales; the total amount or compensation actually received or receivable for the
performance of any act or service, of whatever nature it may be, for which a charge is made or
credit is allowed, whether or not such act or service is done as a part of or in connection with
the sale of materials, goods, wares, or merchandise; and discounts, rents, royalties, fees,
commissions, dividends, and gains realized. Included in “gross receipts” shall be all receipts,
cash, credits, and property of any kind or nature, without any deduction therefrom on account of
the cost of the property sold, the cost of the material used, labor or service costs, interest paid
or payable, or losses or other expenses whatsoever.

M.	“Manufacturing area” means the entire premises utilized for production, preparation,
propagation, storage or compounding of manufactured cannabis or cannabis products, directly
or indirectly, by extraction methods deducting for non-production portions of the premises, such

EXHIBIT B-Page 5

as space used exclusively for office space, employee break rooms, restrooms, and storage
space unrelated to the commercial cannabis business (such as a janitorial closet).

N.	“Nursery area” means the entire premises utilized for production of clones, immature
plants, seeds, and other agricultural products used specifically for the propagation and
cultivation of cannabis deducting for non-production portions of the premises, such as space
used exclusively for office space, employee break rooms, restrooms, and storage space
unrelated to the commercial cannabis business (such as a janitorial closet).

O.	“Person” includes any individual, firm, partnership, joint venture, association,
corporation, limited liability company, estate, trust, business trust, receiver, syndicate, or any
other group or combination acting as a unit, and the plural as well as the singular.

3.52.300 Payment Obligation.

Except to the extent such tax is prohibited under state or federal law, any entity subject
to this chapter must pay the tax rate set pursuant to this chapter. Failure to pay the taxes
required by this Section within thirty (30) days after the due date shall be subject to the following
penalties:

A.	A penalty in the sum equal to twenty-five percent (25%) of the total amount due; and

B.	If the tax remains unpaid, an additional penalty equal to ten percent (10%) shall be
added on the first day of each calendar month following the month of the imposition
of the twenty-five percent (25%) penalty if the tax remains unpaid.

3.52.400 Remittance.

The taxes imposed by this chapter are annual taxes payable in quarterly installments.
The tax year for purposes of this chapter runs from January 1 through December 31 of each
calendar year. No later than the last day of the month following the end of each calendar
quarter (for example, no later than April 30 for the quarter running from January 1 through
March 31), each taxpayer shall remit to the quarterly installment.

Where a tax is based on a flat rate per square foot area, the quarterly installment shall be no
less than the amount calculated by multiplying the relevant square footage by one-quarter of the
relevant annual tax rate. This tax shall not be prorated for square footage only used or
permitted for a portion of the quarter, or for a business that was in operation during only a
portion of the quarter.

Where a tax is based on a percentage of gross receipts, the quarterly installment shall be no
less than the amount calculated by applying the relevant tax rate to the paid based on the actual
gross receipts for the quarter.

Where a tax is based on a combination of flat rate per square foot of area and percentage of
gross receipts, the quarterly installment shall be no less than the greater of the amounts set
forth in the prior two paragraphs.

No later than January 31 of each year, each taxpayer shall file with the city their final tax
statement with respect to all commercial cannabis business activities during the prior calendar
year. If the total of all installment payments made for the tax year is less than the final annual

EXHIBIT B-Page 6

tax due, the difference shall be remitted to the city along with the tax statement. If the total of all
installment payments exceeds the final annual tax due, then the excess payment shall be
applied as a credit against the subsequent year’s installment payments.

Any quarterly installment or final tax payment that is not timely made shall be subject to the
penalties set forth in Section 3.52.300.

The taxes imposed by this chapter shall be remitted directly to the City quarterly as set forth in
this Chapter. Each business shall pay on or before the last day of the month following the close
of each calendar quarter, the minimum amount due if square footage versus gross receipts is
applicable, and at the end of the fiscal year, any amount owed greater than the amount paid is
due and shall be paid on or before the last day of the month following the close of the calendar
year. All other gross receipts or square footage tax is due and payable at the end of each
quarter. Nothing in this Chapter shall be interpreted to excuse any person from any obligation
under any other provision of the municipal code; including, but not limited to, provisions of the
code relating to business licensing and business license taxes.

3.52.500 Payment of Tax Does Not Authorize Unlawful Business or Activity.

The payment of any commercial cannabis business tax required under the provisions of
this Chapter shall not be construed as authorizing the conduct or continuance of any illegal
business or of a legal business in an illegal matter. Nothing in this section implies or authorizes
that any activity connected with the distribution or possession of cannabis is legal unless
authorized by California and Federal Law. Nothing in this section shall be applied or construed
as authorizing the sale of cannabis.

3.52.600 Modification, Repeal or Amendment.

The voters expressly authorize the City Council to amend, modify, change, revise, or
appeal any provision in this Chapter as the City Council deems in the best interest of the City
without a vote of the people to the extent allowed by law. However, as required by Article XIII C
of the California Constitution, voter approval is required for any amendment to Section 3.52.100
that would increase the rate of any Tax levied pursuant to this Chapter above the maximum
rates established by this Chapter or to change the services funded by the tax.

The City Council may impose any tax authorized by this Chapter at a lower rate and may
establish exemptions, or other reductions as otherwise permitted under state and federal law.

No action by the Council under this Section shall prevent it from later increasing the tax or
removing any exemption, incentive, or reduction, and restoring the maximum tax rates specified
in this Chapter.

3.52.700	Use of Tax Proceeds

Proceeds of the tax shall be deposited in a special fund and available only for
expenditures on local police and fire protection services and parks and recreation services, and
not for any other purpose.

3.52.700	Administration.

EXHIBIT B-Page 7

A. The City Manager or the City Manager’s designee shall promulgate rules,
regulations, and procedures to implement and administer this Chapter to ensure the efficient
and timely collection of the tax imposed by this Chapter.

B.	The City shall engage an annual audit of all proceeds raised by this measure. Such
audit may be combined with any other independent audit engaged by the City.

C.	The City shall cause a report to be filed annually as required by Government Code
section 50075.3

D.	An independent Citizens’ Oversight Committee shall be formed to review the
revenues and expenditures generated and spent. Said Committee shall consist of seven (7)
members, one (1) from each of the six City Council Districts, plus one (1) at-large member from
any area of the City, as long as all members are City residents. Nominees shall be appointed
by the City Council. Elected officials at any level of government and employees of the City are
ineligible to serve as members of the Committee. Members so appointed shall serve without
compensation for a term of four (4) years.

The Committee may meet quarterly but not less than once per year to review the revenues
and expenditures generated and spent under this Chapter, and provide its findings to the City
Council at least once a year prior to budget adoption. Unless modified by City Council Resolution,
the Committee shall not have any function, power, or authority other than those expressly
provided herein. In no event shall a failure of the City Council or the Citizens’ Oversite Committee
to take an action required by this Section 5.52.700(E) invalidate any tax collected under this
Chapter; however, any court of competent jurisdiction may issue an order to the City compelling
the City to comply with this Section.

SECTION 4. This Ordinance shall become effective upon adoption by two-thirds majority of the
voters casting votes at the special election on June 5, 2018.

SECTION 5. The City Clerk shall publish this ordinance as required by applicable law. Upon
approval by the voters, the City Clerk shall certify the passage of this ordinance by the voters,
and cause the ordinance to be codified in the City of Merced Municipal Code.

PASSED, APPROVED, AND ADOPTED BY THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF MERCED AT

THE SPECIAL MUNICPAL ELECTION HELD THE____________DAY OF____________________2018,	by

the following vote tally:

YES:

NOES:

OTHER:

EXHIBIT B-Page 8

APPROVED:

Mayor

ATTEST:

STEVE CARRIGAN, CITY CLERK

BY:_______________________________

Assistant/Deputy City Clerk

(SEAL)

APPROVED AS TO FORM

City Attorney

EXHIBIT B-Page 9