RESOLUTION NO. 17-18-04

,, v%,

/V

BOARD OF TRUSTEES
HAPPY VALLEY ELEMENTARY SCHOOL DISTRICT



&

RESOLUTION ORDERING AN ELECTION FOR THE PURPOSE OF
SUBMITTING TO THE QUALIFIED ELECTORS OF THE DISTRICT THE
QUESTION OF LEVYING AN EDUCATION PARCEL TAX UPON EACH
PARCEL IN THE DISTRICT FOR EDUCATIONAL PURPOSES AND
ESTABLISHING THE SPECIFICATIONS OF THE ELECTION ORDER

WHEREAS, the Happy Valley Elementary School District (the “District”) is devoted to
providing high quality public education for its students; and

WHEREAS, in order to maintain high quality educational programs, the District has
determined that it is necessary to identify a local source of funding and to call an election in the
District on the question of whether an education parcel tax should be levied and collected; and

^ • ' 1 '

WHEREAS, Section 4 of Article XIIIA of the California Constitution and California
Government Code Sections 50079 et seq. and 50075 et seq. (the “Law”) authorize a school
district, upon approval by two-thirds (2/3) of the electorate voting on the measure, to levy a
qualified special tax for specified purposes following notice and a public hearing; and

WHEREAS, June 5, 2018 is an established election date and a statewide election date
pursuant to the provisions of the California Elections Code; and

WHEREAS, the Board has on this date held a public hearing, which was duly noticed,
where all interested persons have been heard on the matter of holding an election in the District
on the matter of levying a qualified special tax on each parcel in the District; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Trustees desires at this time to order an election to be held on
June 5, 2018 in the District for the purpose of submitting to the voters in the District the matter of
levying a qualified special tax on each parcel in the District pursuant to the Law for educational
purposes (sometimes referred to herein and in the exhibits attached hereto as an “education
parcel tax”) and to designate the specifications thereof, pursuant to Education Code Section 5320
et seq. and to request consolidation with all other elections held in the District on such date, and
to request the Santa Cruz County Registrar of Voters to perform election services for the District;
and

NOW, THEREFORE, THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE HAPPY VALLEY
ELEMENTARY SCHOOL DISTRICT DOES HEREBY RESOLVE, ORDER AND DETERMINE
AS FOLLOWS:

Section I. Call for Election. The Board hereby orders an election and submits to the
electors of the District the question of whether an education parcel tax shall be levied and
collected in the District for the specific purposes as set forth more fully in the ballot proposition
approved herein and as set forth on Exhibits A and B hereto. This Resolution constitutes the
order of the District to call such election and shall constitute the “specifications of the election
order” pursuant to Education Code Section 5322.

Section 2. Election Date. The date of the election shall be June 5,2018, and the election
shall be held solely within the boundaries of the District, which the District represents have not
changed since the last District election.

Section 3. Purpose of Election; Ballot Proposition. The purpose of the election shall
be for the voters in the District to vote on a proposition, a full copy of which is attached hereto and
marked Exhibit “A", containing the question of whether the District shall levy an education parcel
tax in the District for the specific purposes stated therein, together with the accountability
requirements of Government Code Section 50075.1. As required by Education Code Section
5322 and Elections Code Section 13247 and 9051, the abbreviated form of the measure (75
words or less) to appear on the ballot is attached hereto and marked as Exhibit “B”. The Board
of Trustees hereby authorizes and directs the President of the Board and the Superintendent to
make any changes to the text of the measure as set forth in Exhibit A and Exhibit B hereto as
required or recommended, upon the advice of the District’s legal counsel, to conform to any
requirements of the Law, the Santa Cruz County Registrar of Voters, or to otherwise clarify the
measure to reflect the terms of this Resolution.

Section 4. Authority for Election. The authority for ordering the election is contained in
Section 4 of Article XIIIA of the California Constitution and California Government Code Sections
50079 et seq. and 50075 et seq. The authority for the specification of this election order is
contained in Section 5322 of the Education Code.

Section 5. Type of Tax Rate, and Method of Collection. If approved by District voters,
said education parcel tax shall be levied in an equal amount against each parcel of taxable real
property in the District in the amount of $99 per parcel for a period of six years, commencing with
the first levy in fiscal year 2018-19.

A parcel shall be defined as any unit of land in the District that receives a separate tax bill
from the Santa Cruz County Tax Collector, and shall be collected in the same manner and subject
to the same penalty or penalties as other taxes fixed and collected by the County on behalf of the
District.

Section 6. Exemptions. The following exemptions apply to the levy of the education
parcel tax:

(a)	Otherwise Exempt Property. All property that would otherwise be exempt from
property taxes shall also be exempt from the education parcel tax.

(b)	Senior Citizen Exemption. An exemption shall be available to persons who are 65
years or older and own and occupy as a principal residence a parcel (as defined in Section 5
above) and apply to the District for such exemption under procedures established by the District
or otherwise as required by law or by the Santa Cruz County Tax Collector. The procedures
established by the District shall provide that upon the determination that a parcel is exempt due
to the senior exemption, the applicant shall not have to re-apply annually for such exemption for
so long as the parcel continues to qualify for said exemption.

Section 7. Accountability Requirements.

(a)	Government	Code 50075.1Requirements. The members of the Board, the

Superintendent and officers of the District are hereby directed, individually and collectively, to
comply with the accountability measures pursuant to Government Code Section 50075.1, to wit:

(a)	the measure shall include a statement indicating the specific purposes of the education parcel
tax, (b) the measure shall require that the proceeds of the education parcel tax be applied only to
the specific purposes identified in the ballot measure, (c) the measure shall require the creation
of an account into which the proceeds of the education parcel tax shall be deposited, and (d) the
measure shall require that the District prepare, or cause to be prepared by a third party auditor,
an annual report pursuant to Government Code Section 50075.3. Such accountability measures
are forth on the ballot in the form of Exhibit A attached hereto and are incorporated herein by
reference.

(b)	Citizens’ Oversight Committee. The Board of Trustees will appoint a Citizens’
Oversight Committee charged with the responsibility of annually reviewing the expenditures of
proceeds of the education parcel tax to ensure such funds have been spent for the specific
purposes set forth in the measure. Such Committee will provide an annual report to the District
Board and the public summarizing its review of expenditures of the proceeds of the education
parcel tax and findings relating thereto. The Board of Trustees, if the measure is successful, will
adopt bylaws governing the administration of the Citizens’ Oversight Committee.

Section 8. Annual Report. Pursuant to Government Code Section 50075.3, the Board
directs the chief fiscal officer of the District to file a report with the Board each year containing (a)
the amount of education parcel tax funds collected and expended and (b) the status of any project
required or authorized to be funded from the proceeds of the education parcel tax as identified in
the measure.

Section 9. Delivery of this Resolution. The Clerk of the Board is hereby directed to
send a copy of this Resolution for receipt no later than 88 days prior to the June 5, 2018 election
date, as follows:

(a)	County Elections Officer (as required pursuant to Education Code Section
5322 and Elections Code Section 10403),

(b)	County Board of Supervisors (as required pursuant to Elections Code
Section 10403), and

(e) County Superintendent of Schools for the purposes of noticing the election
on the measure pursuant to Education Code Section 5325(a).

Section 10. Consolidation of Election. The County Elections Officer and the Santa
Cruz County Board of Supervisors are hereby requested to consolidate the election ordered
hereby with any and all other elections to be held on June 5, 2018, within the District. The District
acknowledges that the election shall be held and conducted in accordance with Elections Code
Section 10418. Pursuant to Section 5303 of the Education Code and Section 10002 of the
Elections Code, the Board of Supervisors of Santa Cruz County is requested to permit the County
Registrar to render all services specified by Section 10418 of the Elections Code relating to the
election, for which services the District agrees to reimburse Santa Cruz County in full from District
general funds upon presentation of a bill from the County, such services to include the publication
of notices of election and the mailing of the sample ballot.

• Section 11. Ballot Arguments. As provided in Elections Code Section 9501, any and
all members of this Board are hereby authorized to act as an author of any ballot argument
prepared in connection with the election, including a rebuttal argument. The Superintendent,
President of the Board, or their designees, are hereby authorized to execute any document and
to perform all acts necessary to place the measure on the ballot.

Section 12. Notice of Election. The County Elections Officer is hereby requested to
prepare a formal Notice of Election in time, form and manner as required by law, and the County
Superintendent of Schools is hereby requested to post such notice in accordance with Education
Code Section 5325. The suggested form of notice of the election is as follows:

HAPPY VALLEY ELEMENTARY SCHOOL DISTRICT
ELECTION NOTICE

NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN to the qualified electors of the
Happy Valley Elementary School District (the "District") of
Santa Cruz County, that in accordance with law, an
election will be held on Tuesday, the 5th day of June, 2018
in the District, at which election there will be submitted the
question of levying an education parcel tax of $99 per
parcel annually for six years, with a senior exemption and
citizens oversight, for the purpose of raising money to
support educational costs.

Section 13. Reimbursement for Services Performed. The District agrees to reimburse
the County Elections Officer/Registrar of Voters for services performed with respect to the election
called herein following completion of such services and upon presentation of a bill.

Section 14. Legal Services. The Board retains the firm of Jones Hall, A Professional
Law Corporation as Special Legal Counsel in connection with its parcel tax proceedings. The
Superintendent is authorized to execute an agreement with Jones Hall providing for legal services
rendered in connection with the proceedings described herein.

Section 15. Election Pursuant to Law. In all particulars not recited in this Resolution,
said election shall be held and conducted as provided by law for holding school district elections
in the District.

Section 16. Certification by Clerk of the Board. The Clerk of the Board shall certify as
to the passage and adoption hereof and shall make minutes of the passage and adoption
therefore in the records of the proceedings of the Board of Trustees of the District, in the minutes
of the meeting at which the same is passed and adopted.

Section 17. Compliance with AB 2576 (Effective January 1, 2017). If the requisite
number of votes cast on the question of an education parcel tax are obtained, the District and the
County shall coordinate on compliance with the terms of Assembly Bill 2576 effective January 1,
2017, which requires that notice of a new parcel tax be provided to taxpayers residing outside of
the jurisdiction of the taxing agency.

Section 18. Severability. The Board of Trustees of the District hereby declares that every
section, paragraph, sentence and clause of the qualified special tax measure has independent
value, and that the Board of Trustees would have approved each provision regardless of every
other provision. If approved, should any part be found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be
invalid for any reason, all remaining parts shall remain in full force and effect to the fullest extent
allowed by law.

Section 19. Effective Date. This resolution shall take effect on and after its adoption.

The foregoing Resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Happy Valley
Elementary School District of Santa Cruz County, being the Board authorized by law to make the
designations therein contained by the following vote, on February 21,2018.

Adopted by the following votes:

AYES:	PvrfsjJJ"	PyvutJIJU, fnrtW,	Varttuui

NOES:

ABSENT: X
ABSTAIN: X

Attest:

Clerk oftFfe'BoarXa

INTRODUCTION

EXHIBIT A

BALLOT MEASURE
FULL TEXT OF MEASURE

“To support academic excellence, maintain quality art and music programs,
integrate modern technology into classrooms, retain high quality teachers and
provide local funding that cannot be taken by the State, shall Happy Valley
Elementary School District’s measure be adopted authorizing the levy of a parcel
tax for six years at a rate of $99 per year raising $61,000 annually with an
exemption for seniors and with annual citizens’oversight?”

PURPOSES

To provide local revenue that cannot be taken by the State and to maintain high-quality
public education in schools in the Happy Valley Elementary School District (the “District”), the
District proposes to levy and collect an education parcel tax annually for six years as more fully
described below under “EDUCATION PARCEL TAX AND PROCEDURES,” and to implement
accountability measures in connection with the education parcel tax to ensure that funds are used
only for the following specific purposes:

•	Supporting quality art and music programs,

•	Providing for the integration of modern technology into classrooms, including
devices and instructional equipment,

•	Attracting and retaining qualified teachers and staff, and

•	Supporting classroom instruction.

The Board of Trustees will not fund any program other than those listed above from the
proceeds of the education parcel tax.

EDUCATION PARCEL TAX AND PROCEDURES

Amount of Education Parcel Tax. Subject to two-thirds approval of the voters, the
education parcel tax of $99 per parcel (except exempt parcels, as described below) shall become
effective for six years commencing with fiscal year 2018-19 and be collected by the Santa Cruz
County Tax Collector at the same time as and along with, and shall be subject to the same
penalties as general ad valorem taxes collected by said tax collector.

Definition of Parcel. A parcel shall be defined as any unit of land in the District that
receives a separate tax bill from the Santa Cruz County Tax Collector.

Exemptions. The following exemptions shall apply to the levy of the qualified special tax.

•	Otherwise Exempt Property. All property that would otherwise be exempt from
property taxes shall also be exempt from the education parcel tax.

•	Senior Citizen Exemption. An exemption shall be available to persons who are
65 years or older and own and occupy as a principal residence a parcel (as

Exhibit A-1



defined above) and apply to the District for such exemption under procedures
established by the District or otherwise as required by law or by the Santa Cruz
County Tax Collector.

Property owners seeking the senior citizen exemption must apply to the District for such
exemption under procedures established by the District or otherwise as required by law or by the
Santa Cruz County Tax Collector. When a senior exemption has been granted to a parcel, the
senior will not have to re-submit an exemption application annually if the facts are such that said
parcel continues to qualify for the senior exemption described in this measure.

Exclusive Procedures. The procedures described herein with respect to the levy and
collection of the education parcel tax and exemptions, and any additional procedures established
by the Board of Trustees of the District, shall be the exclusive claims procedure for claimants
seeking an exemption, refund, reduction, or re-computation of the qualified special tax. Whether
any particular claim is to be resolved by the District or by the County shall be determined by the
District, in coordination with the County as necessary. The District’s Board of Trustees may adopt
such additional or supplemental procedures as it deems necessary or convenient for the
administration of the education parcel tax.

ACCOUNTABILITY MEASURES

C '	'	■

Government Code Accountability. In accordance with the requirements of California
Government Code sections 50075.1 and 50075.3, the following accountability measures, among
others, shall apply to the qualified special taxes levied in accordance with this Measure:

•	the specific purposes of the education parcel tax shall be those purposes
identified above under the heading “PURPOSES,”

•	the proceeds of the education parcel tax shall be applied only to those specific
purposes identified above under the heading “PURPOSES,”

•	a separate, special account shall be created into which the proceeds of the
education parcel tax must be deposited; and

•	the District shall annually prepare and file or cause to be prepared and filed a
written report with the Board of Trustees of the District showing (1) the amount
of funds collected and expended from the proceeds of the education parcel tax
and (2) the status of any projects, programs, or purposes identified above
under the heading “PURPOSES.”

Citizens’ Oversight Committee. In addition to the accountability measures required by the
Government Code, an independent Citizens’ Oversight Committee shall be appointed by the
Board of Trustees to advise the Board on the expenditures funded by the measure in order to
ensure that said funds are spent forthe purposes approved by the voters. The Citizens’ Oversight
Committee will review the expenditures of these funds by the District and will report on an annual
basis to the Board and community on how these funds have been spent.

Exhibit A-2

PROTECTION OF FUNDING

Current law forbids any decrease in State or Federal funding to the District because of the
District’s adoption of an education parcel tax. However, if any State or Federal funds are reduced
because of the adoption of this education parcel tax, then the amount of the education parcel tax
will be reduced annually as necessary in order to restore such State or Federal funding.

SEVERABILITY

The Board of Trustees of the District hereby declares, and the voters by approving this
measure concur, that every section, paragraph, sentence and clause of this measure has
independent value, and the Board of Trustees and the voters would have adopted each provision
hereof regardless of every other provision hereof. Upon approval of this measure by the voters,
should any part be found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, all
remaining parts hereof shall remain in full force and effect to the fullest extent allowed by law.

Exhibit A-3

^ EXHIBIT B

BALLOT MEASURE
ABBREVIATED FORM

To support academic excellence, maintain quality art and music programs,^®
integrate modern technology into classrooms, retain high quality teachers and to
provide local funding that cannot be taken by the State, shallHHappy Valley IX,
Elementary School District'^ measure be adopted authorizing the levy of a parcel ^
tax for six years at a rate of $99 per year raising $61;000 annually with an J ^
exemption for seniors and with annual citizens’ oversight?

Exhibit B-1