IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE N

The California Constitution and State law authorize school districts to levy
qualified special taxes for specified purposes. Government Code Sections 50077 and
50079 provide that such a tax measure passes if two-thirds of those voting on it vote to
approve the measure.

By this Measure, the Board of Trustees of the Millbrae School District
(“District”) proposes a special tax on parcels in the District that would raise funds to
support various educational purposes outlined below. If this Measure is approved, an
annual tax of $97 per parcel would be imposed starting July 1, 2018, for a period of
five years, with the tax ending June 30, 2023. The District estimates $700,000 would
be raised annually by the tax.

The proposed tax applies to any unit of real property which lies wholly or
partially in the District that receives a separate property tax bill from San Mateo County
tax collection officials. Parcels otherwise exempt from such property taxes will be
exempt from this proposed tax. Any individual owning and occupying a parcel as a
single-family residence may apply for an exemption to the tax if they also: (1) are age
65 years or older; (2) receive Supplemental Security Income for a disability, regardless
of age; or (3) receive Social Security Disability Insurance benefits, regardless of age,
and have an annual income not exceeding 250% of the 2012 federal poverty guidelines.

The stated purposes of the parcel tax are to: maintain 21st century, hands-on
science labs, technology, engineering, and math; strengthen reading and writing
programs; attract and retain qualified teachers; and restore art and music programs.

The proceeds of the tax shall only be used for the stated purposes, and for no
other purposes. The Measure states that no proceeds may be spent on administrative
salaries or benefits.

The District will provide the following additional accountability measures for
the tax proceeds: the proceeds will be placed into a special account; an annual report
accounting for the proceeds collected and expended and the status of projects or
programs funded by the tax will be filed with the District’s Board of Trustees; and an
independent citizens’ oversight committee will be established to oversee expenditures
of the proceeds.

The Measure states that the proposed tax is not intended to jeopardize local,
state, or federal funding and, if any such funding is reduced or offset because of the tax,
the District may reduce the amount the tax levied as necessary to restore the funding.
Also, the District’s appropriations limit shall be increased annually if necessary to
ensure revenue from the tax may be spent for the listed purposes.

A “yes” vote on this measure would impose an annual tax of $97 per
taxable parcel on property within the District for a period of five years
beginning July 1, 2018, for the purposes listed above.

A “no” vote on this measure would not allow the parcel tax to be levied.

Argument in Favor of Measure

Vote YES on____so Millbrae students receive the high-quality education they deserve. 1?

Millbrae School District provides an outstanding education to our elementary and middle I &
school students. Thanks to dedicated teachers and rigorous academic programs at Green Hills, \^l
Lomita Park, Meadows, Spring Valley and Taylor Middle School, our students go on to excel in
high school and college.	^

Millbrae schools, however, are among the lowest funded in San Mateo County. Our schools \0
need stable, locally-controlled funding to protect strong academic programs and keep great \p
teachers in our classrooms. That is why Measure____is so important.

Measure____will protect our excellent schools and help teachers provide 21st-century instruction ?

in science, technology, engineering and math. Our global economy has higher standards than \ ?
ever before, and Millbrae students need a strong academic foundation that prepares them to tj-

compete and succeed.	•?

G

Measure____requires local control and accountability. All funds will stay in our community and \ *-f

directly support local classrooms.	lf

Vote YES for Millbrae students:	£

• Maintain 21st-century, hands-on science, technology, engineering and math instruction

•	Attract and retain qualified teachers	%

•	Strengthen reading and writing programs

•	Provide hands-on science labs

•	Restore art and music programs

Vote YES on__for local control:

•	All funds will support Millbrae School District schools—no funds can be taken away by
the State

•	No funds can be used for administrators' salaries or benefits

•	Independent citizens' oversight committee and annual audits are required

•	Senior citizen homeowners are eligible for an exemption from the cost of the measure

Studies show that a well-rounded education including art and music helps students learn and
achieve. Our students are counting on us to support their education and vote YES on_. \ /.

1
11

2

10

tf

Join Millbrae's elected leaders, local business owners, longtime residents, realtors, parents and )/
teachers and vote YES on for our Millbrae students.	1	f

Cll Cn,NTHEOFF!CfrOFTH6

ni£U CHIEF ELECTIONS

OFBmWIPjWMi •>*, "

MAR 1 5 2018

Millbrae Elementary School District $97 Parcel Tax: Argument Against Measure N

With this latest “temporary” parcel tax, the Millbrae Elementary School District claims
they need more money to continue providing quality education. ^

Have they earned this additional tax that will cost you $485 over the next 5 years (on
top of the taxes you are already paying)?

Let’s look at the latest student test scores for Math learners attaining proficiency: (Z

•	2015-16 school year results: 61% meeting proficiency. ^

•	That means 39% do NOT meet standards.

•	Source: California Department of Education Data Partnership 2-
If you got 61% on a test, that would be a D- grade, would it not? j
Should you, the voters, reward a 39% failure rate with more money? ('2-
If no, we encourage you to vote NO on Measure N. 10

-	-	-n

•	For English, only 66% met or exceed standards! ^

No wonder that student enrollment is declining.

Millbrae Elementary School District is already spending $9,990 per student.

For an average class size of 26 students, that’s $259,740 per class per year, }Aj-

The average salary and benefits for teachers is $83,991 per shortened work year. |2

Yet, the District administration wants more of your hard earned money to pad their J Lj~
salaries and fat pension plans.

The measure says that no funds will be used for administration. But, funds generated
separately from this parcel tax can be used for administration expenses without limits.! a
So, that is really an empty promise. Do not be fooled. | i

Tell the Millbrae Elementary School District Board to be fiscally re
NO on Measure N. j

If you reward failure, you will get more failure!

For more information please visit us at
http://www.svtaxpayers.org/2018-millbrae-parcel-tax |

OF SAN MATEO COUNTY. CAUF.

MAR 1 G 2018

ly J

• |--- - — --- - *

a4‘

^ f DEPUTY CLERK /

Millbrae Elementary School District $97 Parcel Tax: Rebuttal to the Argument in

Favor - Measure N

With this latest “temporary” parcel tax, the MLILbrae Elementary School District claims
they need more money to continue providing quality education.

Have they earned this additional tax that will cost you $485 over the next 5 years (on
top of the taxes you are already paying)?

Let’s look at the latest student test scores for Math learners attaining proficiency:

•	1201^16 school year results: 61% meeting proficiency.

•	That means 39% do NOT meet standards.

•	Source: http://www.ed-data.org/district/San-Mateo/Millbrae-Elementary
If you got 61% on a test, that would be a D- grade, would it not?

Should you, the voters, reward a 39% failure rate with more money?

If no, we encourage you to vote NO on Measure N.

•	For English, only 66% met or exceed standards!

No wonder that student enrollment is declining.

Millbrae Elementary School District is already spending $9,990 per student.

For an average class size of 26 students, that’s $259,740 per class per year.
The average salary and benefits for teachers is $83,991 per shortened work year.

Yet, the District administration wants more of your hard earned money to pad their
salaries and fat pension plans.

The measure says that no funds will be used for administration. But, funds generated
separately from this parcel tax can be used for administration expenses without limits.
So, that is really an empty promise. Do not be fooled.

NO on Measure N.

If you reward failure, you will get more failure!

CTII CH IN THE OFFICE OF THE
rlLllU CHIEF ELECTIONS OFFICER
OF SAN MATEO COUNTY, CALIF.

For more information please visit us at

MAR 2 6 2018

°t	
f	/«
IT	
8	35
13	i3
5	S>
T	f
3,	1
iC	
12	a
10	10
b	8
?	f
T	f
if	'Y
	(3
'Y	
5	f)
t<f	
/3	
//	
	H
	1
?	

http://www.svtaxpayers. org/2018-m illbrae-parcel-tax

ftft

<aJ,

Rebuttal to Argument Against Measure N

Don’t be misled by the two opponents of Measure N. They are
not Millbrae residents, they don’t understand our community
and they don’t have children in our schools. These two
individuals oppose every measure in San Mateo County without
taking the time to understand the issues.

/I

(O

T

1

4-3

Here are the facts:



• Student test scores are well above the State’s standard &
for excellence. Our schools provide an outstanding,
rounded education to Millbrae students, but we need
Measure N to protect strong academic programs and retain
qualified teachers.

1

<b

e>

b

3$

» Millbrae School District is among the lowest funded
District in San Mateo County. Every other school district
in our county receives more funding per student. Millbrae
students deserve better.

7-

°l

3



• Measure N is fiscally responsible. Accountability
protections are built into Measure N. All funds are
controlled land citizens’ oversight is required.

b

20

•	No .Measure N funds can go to pensions or administrator
salaries. By law, funds can only support programs outlined
in the measure. Take a look at the full ballot text printed in
your voter pamphlet to see for yourself.

•	Measure N equips Millbrae students with the tools they

need to succeed. Measure N maintains 21 '-century. hands-
on science, technology engineering and math instruction so
students are prepared for high school and college. Let’s not
gamble with our kids’ futures.

13

T

£>

&

r

(0

5



30

Our Millbrae community is united in its support for our schools. / /
A YES vote is an investment in our community, our schools and /
our students’ futures.	S

Join us—support Millbrae schools and Millbrae students. Vote



FILED™*

iH THF. CP r-K
Wity	JFFICER

OF SAN MATEO COUNTY, CALiF.

BOARD OF TRUSTEES
MILLBRAE SCHOOL DISTRICT

FEB 28 2018.

RESOLUTION NO. 17-18-07

B

RESOLUTION OF THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE MILLBRAE SCHOOL DISTRICT
OF THE COUNTY OF SAN MATEO, STATE OF CALIFORNIA, CALLING AN ELECTION
FOR APPROVAL OF AN EDUCATION PARCEL TAX, ESTABLISHING SPECIFICATIONS
OF THE ELECTION ORDER, AND REQUESTING CONSOLIDATION WITH OTHER
ELECTIONS OCCURRING ON JUNE 5, 2018

RESOLVED by the Board of Trustees ("Board") of the Millbrae School District
("District"), a school district of the County of San Mateo, State of California, that:

WHEREAS, the District is devoted to maintaining the quality of local schools; and

WHEREAS, maintaining core academic programs in reading, writing, math, the arts
and science are critical to preparing students for high school and college; and

WHEREAS, it is imperative to attract and retain highly qualified teachers that
provide 21st century instruction in science, technology, engineering and math; and

WHEREAS, a well-rounded education in art, music and physical education makes
students better classroom learners; and

WHEREAS, the District is the lowest funded in San Mateo County; and

WHEREAS, State funding for education is unreliable and inadequate to support the
level of academic achievement expected from Millbrae schools; and

WHEREAS, the District has engaged in a variety of efforts to identify all possible
funding sources and generate funds for the District to meet its educational goals; and

WHEREAS, securing funding at the local level will eliminate some of the uncertainty
in school district budget planning resulting annually from the State budget process; and

WHEREAS, the Board has concluded that the District seeks to avoid inconsistent
funding of its educational programs and secure locally-controlled funding that the State
cannot take away; and

WHEREAS, the Board has received information regarding the possibility of a local
education parcel tax measure; and

WHEREAS, under no circumstances shall any of the proceeds of the education parcel
tax be used for District office administrators' salaries or benefits; and

WHEREAS, this measure will include strict taxpayer protections, including an
independent citizens' oversight committee and mandatory audits to ensure funds are spent
as promised; and

WHEREAS, California Constitution, Article XIIIA, section 4 and Government Code
sections 50075 et seq. authorizes the District, upon approval of two-thirds of the electorate,
to levy qualified special taxes on real property in the District for the purpose of providing
quality educational programs in the District and other lawful purposes of the District; and

WHEREAS, in the judgment of this Board, following a public hearing and comment,
it is advisable to request that the San Mateo County Superintendent of Schools call an
election and submit to the voters of the District the question of whether the District shall
levy a qualified special tax within the District, for the purpose of raising revenue for the
District; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the Education Code and Elections Code such election may be
completely or partially consolidated with any other election held on the same day and in the
same territory or territory that is in part the same.

NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS DETERMINED AND ORDERED as follows:

Section 1. Recitals. The Board hereby finds and determines that the foregoing recitals
are true and correct.

Section 2. Resolution Constitutes Order of Election. This resolution shall constitute
an order of election pursuant to the Education Code to the San Mateo County
Superintendent of Schools ("County Superintendent") to call an election within the
boundaries of the District on June 5, 2018.

Section 3. Date and Purpose of Measure. Pursuant to the California Constitution and
Government Code, an election shall be held within the boundaries of the District on
Tuesday, June 5, 2018, for the purpose of voting on a measure ("Measure") which will be
presented to voters in substantially the form attached hereto as Exhibit A, containing the
question of whether the District shall impose a qualified special tax for the educational

purposes stated therein. In addition, the full text of the Measure ("Full Ballot Text") shall_

appear in the ballot pamphlet in substantiaTly'the form attached hereto as Exhibit B.

Section 4. Exemptions from Qualified Special Tax. Pursuant to any procedures
adopted by the District, upon application an exemption from payment of the special tax may
be granted on any parcel owned by one or more:

(a)	Persons who will attain 65 years of age prior to July 1 of the tax year and
occupying said parcel as his or her principal residence ("Senior Citizen
Exemption"); or,

(b)	Persons receiving Supplemental Security Income for a disability, regardless of
age, and occupying said parcel as his or her principal residence ("SSI
Exemption"); or

(c)	Persons receiving Social Security Disability Insurance benefits, regardless of
age, whose yearly income does not exceed 250 percent of the 2012 federal
poverty guidelines issued by the United States Department of Health and
Human Services and occupying said parcel as his or her principal residence
("SSDI Exemption").

The District shall annually provide to the San Mateo County Tax Collector ("County Tax
Collector") or other appropriate County official a list of parcels that the District has approved
for an exemption.

Section 5. Collection of the Tax. Beginning July 1, 2018, if adopted by voters, the
qualified special tax shall be collected by the County Tax Collector, at the same time, in the
same manner, and subject to the same penalties as ad valorem property taxes collected by

the County Tax Collector. Unpaid special taxes shall bear interest at the same rate as the
rate for unpaid ad valorem property taxes until paid.

With respect to all general property tax matters within its jurisdiction, the County Tax
Collector shall make all final determinations of tax exemption or relief for any reason, and
that decision shall be final and binding. With respect to matters specific to the levy of the
special tax, including the exemptions, the application of the definition of "Parcel of Taxable
Real Property" to any parcel(s), the legality or validity of the special tax, or any other
disputed matter specific to the application of the special tax, the decisions of the District
shall be final and binding.

Section 6. Reporting and Oversight.

(a)	Specific Purpose. The proceeds of the special tax shall be applied only to the
specific purposes identified in the Full Ballot Text as required by Government
Code section 50075.1. The proceeds of the special tax shall be deposited into
a fund, which shall be kept separate and apart from other funds of the
District.

(b)	Annual Report. No later than December 31 of each year while the special tax
is in effect, the District shall prepare and file with the Board a report detailing
the amount of funds collected and expended, and the status of any project
authorized to be funded by this Measure.

(c)	Independent Citizens' Oversight Committee. The Board shall provide for the
creation of an independent citizens' oversight committee to oversee
expenditure of the funds collected pursuant to the Measure to ensure that
moneys raised under this Measure are spent only for the purposes described
in this Measure. The Board shall provide for the composition, duties, and
other necessary information regarding the committee's formation and
operation.

Section 7. Authority for Ordering^Election. _Xhe authority for ordering the election is
contained in the Education“CodeTEIections Code, Government Code, and California
Constitution.

Section 8. Authority for Specifications. The authority for the specification of this
election order is contained in the Education Code.

Section 9. Resolution to County Officials. The Secretary to the Board is hereby
directed to cause certified copies of this Resolution and order to be delivered no later than
March 7, 2018, to the County Superintendent, the San Mateo County Registrar of Voters
("Registrar"), and the Clerk of the Board of Supervisors of San Mateo County ("Board of
Supervisors").

Section 10. Formal Notice. The County Superintendent is hereby requested to prepare
and execute a Formal Notice of Parcel Tax Election and consolidation order in substantially
the form attached hereto as Exhibit C (the "Formal Notice"), and to call the election by
causing the Formal Notice to be posted in accordance with the applicable law no later than
March 7, 2018, or to otherwise cause the notice to be published as permitted by law. The
Secretary to the Board, on behalf of and as may be requested by the County
Superintendent, is authorized to cause all notices required by law in connection herewith to
be published and posted, as the case may be.

3

(a)	Request to Registrar. Pursuant to State law, the Registrar is requested to
take all steps to hold the election on June 5, 2018, in accordance with law and
these specifications. The election shall be held and conducted in the manner
prescribed by Elections Code section 10418.

(b)	Voter Pamphlet. The Registrar is hereby requested to reprint the Full Ballot
Text in substantially the form attached hereto as Exhibit B in the voter
information pamphlet to be distributed to voters pursuant to the Elections
Code. In the event the Full Ballot Text will not be reprinted in the voter
information pamphlet in its entirety, the Registrar is hereby requested to
print, immediately below the impartial analysis of the Measure, in no less than
10-point boldface type, a legend substantially as follows:

"The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure_. If you desire a

copy of the Measure, please call the San Mateo County Registrar of Voters at
{phone number} and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you."

(c)	Consolidation. The County Superintendent and the Board of Supervisors are
hereby requested to consolidate the election ordered hereby with any and all
other elections as may be held on the same day in the same territory or in
territory that is in part the same.

(d)	Canvass and Declaration of Results. The Board of Supervisors is authorized to
canvass the returns of the election and declare the result pursuant to the
Elections Code.

(e)	Cost of Election. The District will reimburse the Registrar and the County of
San Mateo for costs associated with the election as required by law.

Section 12. Appropriations Limit. The Board shall provide in each year for an increase
in the District's appropriations limit as shall be necessary to ensure that the proceeds of the
special tax may be spent for the authorized purposes.

Section 13. Ballot Arguments. The Board President and/or his designees are hereby
authorized to prepare and file with the Registrar any ballot argument prepared in connection
with the election, including a rebuttal argument, each within the time established by the
Registrar, which shall be considered the official ballot arguments of the Board as sponsor of
the Measure and to take all necessary action to prevent inclusion of false and/or misleading
information in ballot materials related to the Measure.

Section 14. Official Actions. The District Superintendent, Board President, or their
designees are hereby authorized to execute any other document and to perform all acts
necessary to place the Measure on the ballot, including making alterations to the Measure
and Full Ballot Text stated in Exhibits A and B hereto, and to this Resolution, to comply
with requirements of law and election officials or which are, in the judgment of the
Superintendent and/or Board President, in the best interests of the District.

4

Section 15. Effective Date. This Resolution shall take effect from and after its adoption.

The foregoing resolution was introduced by

...	iWbaro

who moved its adoption, seconded by fV\Ui\i'Ur vyT U \( \__________

February 6, 2018 by the following vote:

and adopted on

AYES: ^

NOES: 0
ABSENT: 0

President of the Board of Trustees
of the Millbrae School District

ATTEST:

Clerk of the Board of Trustees
of the Millbrae School District

5

EXHIBIT A

Summary of Measure

The Measure shall be summarized in the following form, and the County of San Mateo Registrar of
Voters is requested to cause this summary of the Measure to appear on the ballot:

Millbrae Quality Education Protection and Local Control Measure:

To support students with funds that cannot be taken by the State, to: maintain 21st lC^ ^
century, hands-on science labs, technology, engineering/ math instruction;^ S'	,

strengthen reading/ writing programs; attract/ retain qualified teachers; and restore|0
art/ music programs; shall Millbrae Elementary School District levy $97 per parcel, )rb? <
raising $700,000 annually for 5 years, exempting seniors, providing funds for u f
classroom instruction, not administrators' salaries, requiring independent citizen £> f
oversight and all funds staying local? ^ y ^ ^ ^ ^

Ell EH1" THE OFFICE OF THE
I IL C U CHIEF ELECTIONS OFFICER
OF SAN MATEO COUNTY, CAUF.

FEB 28 2018

6

|V. !,	.	Ur-'.,.-

"■"» tv? c2frv0FC^

•	, t. C «*	..	jfi

ctv* ijmm

Of SrtN hftfiQ ■ .-* . ry, CA'.T

EXHIBIT B

FULL BALLOT TEXT

FEB 28 2018

| MILLBRAE SCHOOL DISTRICT
Millbrae Quality Education Protection and Local

Measure____

[letter designation to be assigned by San Mateo County Registrar of Voters]

Millbrae School District provides quality education to over 2,400 elementary and middle school
students. Thanks to strong academic programs in math, science, reading and writing, as well as
highly qualified teachers, student test scores are well above the State's standard for excellence.

Our district continues to face ongoing funding challenges, including being among the lowest funded
school district in San Mateo County. Local schools need a dedicated source of local funding to
provide 21st century instruction in science, technology, engineering and math that will prepare
children to excel in high school and college and compete in the global economy.

Our schools strive to provide a well-rounded education that includes art, music and PE, as this
helps students be better classroom learners. Local funding will help to protect academic programs
and support strong student achievement.

Every penny from Measure_______will be locally-controlled and directly support Millbrae schools. No

funds can be taken away by the state. Independent citizens' oversight and annual audits will
ensure that funds are spent as promised. No funds can go to administrator salaries or benefits.

In addition, senior citizens, many of whom live on fixed incomes, are eligible for an exemption from
the cost.

To support students with funds that cannot be taken by the State, to: maintain 21st century,
hands-on science labs, technology, engineering/ math instruction; strengthen reading/ writing
programs; attract/ retain qualified teachers; and restore art/ music programs; shall Millbrae
Elementary School District levy $97 per parcel, raising $700,000 annually for 5 years, exempting
seniors, providing funds for classroom instruction, not administrators’ salaries, requiring
independent citizen oversight and all funds staying local?

Moneys raised under this Measure shall be authorized to be used only for the following purposes in
accordance with priorities established by the Board and to the extent of available funds:

•	To maintain 21st century, hands-on science labs, technology, engineering, and math,
instruction

•	To strengthen reading and writing programs

•	To attract and retain qualified teachers

•	To restore art and music programs

TERMS

No funds will be spent on administrative salaries or benefits.

A. Amount and Basis of Tax

This qualified special tax shall authorize the District to annually levy a special tax of $97 per
Parcel of Taxable Real Property beginning July 1, 2018, and continuing fora period of five (5)
years.

This qualified special tax is estimated to raise $700,000 in annual local funding for District
schools. The amount of annual local funding raised by this qualified special tax will vary from
year-to-year due to changes in the number of parcels subject to the levy.

"Parcel of Taxable Real Property" is defined as any unit of real property in the District that
receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem property taxes from the County Tax Collector's Office.

All property that is otherwise exempt from or upon which no ad valorem property taxes are levied
in any year shall also be exempt from the special tax in such year.

B.	Exemptions

Under procedures adopted by the District, an exemption from payment of the special tax
may be granted on any parcel owned by one or more persons who is/are:

1.	An individual who will attain 65 years of age prior to July 1 of the tax year and
occupying said parcel as his or her principal residence ("Senior Citizen Exemption");
or,

2.	Receiving Supplemental Security Income for a disability, regardless of age, and
occupying said parcel as his or her principal residence ("SSI Exemption"); or

3.	Receiving Social Security Disability Insurance benefits, regardless of age, whose
yearly income does not exceed 250 percent of the 2012 federal poverty guidelines
issued by the United States Department of Health and Human Services, and
occupying said parcel as his or her principal residence ("SSDI Exemption").

The District shall annually provide to the San Mateo County Tax Collector ("County Tax Collector")
or other appropriate County official a list of parcels that the District has approved for an exemption.

C.	Claims / Exemption Procedures

With respect to all general property tax matters within its jurisdiction, the County Tax
Collector or other appropriate County tax official shall make all final determinations of tax
exemption or relief for any reason, and that decision shall be final and binding. With respect to
matters specific to the levy of the special tax including any exemptions, the application of the
definition of "Parcel of Taxable Real Property" to any parcel(s), the legality or validity of the special
tax, or any other disputed matter specific to the application of the special tax, the decisions of the
District shall be final and binding. The procedures described herein, and any additional procedures
established by the Board shall be the exclusive claims procedure for claimants seeking an
exemption, refund, reduction, or re-computation of the special tax. Whether any particular claim is
to be resolved by the District or by the County shall be determined by the District, in coordination
with the County as necessary.

D.	Appropriations Limit

Pursuant to California Constitution Article XIIIB and applicable laws, the appropriations limit
for the District will be adjusted periodically by the aggregate sum collected by levy of this qualified
special tax.

E.

Mandatory Accountability Protections

1.	Specific Purposes. The proceeds of the special tax shall be applied only to the
specific purposes identified above. The proceeds of the special tax shall be deposited
into a fund, which shall be kept separate and apart from other funds of the District.

2.	Annual Reports. No later than December 31 of each year while the tax is in effect,
the District shall prepare and file with the Board a report detailing the amount of
funds collected and expended, and the status of any project authorized to be funded
by this Measure. The report may relate to the calendar year, fiscal year, or other
appropriate annual period, and may be incorporated into or filed with the annual
budget, audit, or other appropriate routine report to the Board.

3.	Independent Citizens' Oversight Committee. The Board shall provide for the creation
of an independent citizens' oversight committee to oversee expenditure of the funds
collected pursuant to the Measure to ensure that moneys raised under this Measure
are spent only for the purposes described in this Measure. The Board shall provide
for the composition, duties, and other necessary information regarding the
committee's formation and operation.

F.	Protection of Funding

Current law forbids any decrease in State or federal funding to the District resulting from
the adoption of qualified special tax. However, if any such funding is reduced or affected because of
the adoption of this local funding measure, then the Board may reduce the amount of the special
taxes levied as necessary in order to restore such State or federal funding and/or maximize the
District's fiscal position for the benefit of the educational program. As a result, whether directly or
indirectly, no funding from this measure may be taken away by the State or federal governments.

G.	Severability

The Board hereby declares, and the voters by approving this Measure concur, that every
section and part of this Measure has independent value, and the Board and the voters would have
adopted each provision hereof regardless of every other provision hereof. Upon approval of this
Measure by the voters, should any part of the Measure or taxing formula be found by a court of
competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, all remaining parts of the Measure or taxing
formula hereof shall remain in full force and effect to the fullest extent allowed by law, j

li

full f-

9

EXHIBIT C

FORMAL NOTICE OF SPECIAL TAX ELECTION
[For Use by County Superintendent]

NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN to the qualified electors of Millbrae School District of San
Mateo County, California, that in accordance with the provisions of the Education Code and
the Government Code of the State of California, an election will be held on June 5, 2018, for
the purpose of submitting to the qualified electors of the District the measure summarized
as follows:

Millbrae Quality Education Protection and Local Control Measure:

To support students with funds that cannot be taken by the State, to: maintain 21st
century, hands-on science labs, technology, engineering/ math instruction;
strengthen reading/ writing programs; attract/ retain qualified teachers; and restore
art/ music programs; shall Millbrae Elementary School District levy $97 per parcel,
raising $700,000 annually for 5 years, exempting seniors, providing funds for
classroom instruction, not administrators' salaries, requiring independent citizen
oversight and all funds staying local?

By execution of this formal Notice of Election the San Mateo County Superintendent
of Schools orders consolidation of the election with such other elections as may be held on
the same day in the same territory or in territory that is in part the same.

The San Mateo County Superintendent of Schools, by this Notice of Election, has
called the election pursuant to a Resolution and Order of the Governing Board of the
Millbrae School District adopted February 6, 2018, in accordance with the provisions of
Education Code sections 5302, 5325 and 5361.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this day
2018. ---------------------------------------------------------------------------'

County Superintendent of Schools
San Mateo County, California

FILED'cWFMC™:^ICER
OF SAN MATEO COUNTY. CA«. >'

FEB 28 2018

10