Preparing every student to thrive in a global society.

March 8, 2018
VIA HAND DELIVERY:

Shannon Bushey

Santa Clara County Chief Elections Officer
and Registrar of Voters
1555 Berger Drive, Building 2
San Jose, California 95112

Mary Ann Dewan, Ph.D.

Santa Clara County Superintendent of Schools
1290 Ridder Park Drive
San Jose, California 95131-2304

Re:	East	Side Union High School District

Resolution Calling Election on June 5, 2018
(Parcel Tax Election)____________________

Dear Ms. Bushey and Dr. Dewan:

As required by Education Code 5322 and Elections Code Section 10403, enclosed is the Resolution adopted on
February 13, 2018 (the “Resolution”) by the Board of Trustees of the East Side Union High School District (the
“District”) calling a parcel tax election to be conducted in the District on June 5, 2018.

The Resolution constitutes the “specification of the election order” pursuant to Education Code Section 5322.

In addition, pursuant to Elections Code Section 10403, the Resolution requests consolidation with all other
elections to be held in the District on June 5, 2018, and includes as Exhibit A the Full Text of Measure and
Exhibit B the Abbreviated Form (75 words).

Should you have any questions on the attached, please do not hesitate to contact me at (408) 347-5010 or the
Charles

Cc:

Clerk of the Board of Supervisors

70 West Hedding Street, 10'h Floor, East Wing

San Jose, California 95110

J. Manuel Herrera, President

East Side Union High School District Board of Trustees
Pattie Cortese, Vice President Lan Nguyen, Clerk Frank Biehl, Member
Chris D. Funk, Superintendent

San Jose, CA 95133

T 408.347.5000 F 408.347.5015

Van T. Le, Member

830 N. Capitol Ave.

esuhsd.org

RESOLUTION NO. 2017/2018-28

BOARD OF TRUSTEES
EAST SIDE UNION HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT

AMENDING RESOLUTION 2017/2018-16 AS SPECIFIED HEREIN AND
AUTHORIZING AND DIRECTING SUPERINTENDENT AND HIS
DESIGNEE TO MAKE ANY CHANGES TO THE TEXT OF THE
PROPOSITION AS REQUIRED, UPON THE ADVICE OF THE DISTRICT’S
LEGAL COUNSEL, TO CONFORM TO ANY REQUIREMENTS OF THE
LAW OR THE SANTA CLARA COUNTY REGISTRAR OF VOTERS

WHEREAS, at the Regular Board Meeting held on February 13, 2018, the Board
of Trustees the East Side Union High School District (the “District”) approved and
adopted Resolution #2018/2018-16 Ordering an Election for the Purpose of Submitting
to the Qualified Electors of the District the Question of Levying and Education Parcel Tax
Upon Each Parcel in the District for Educational Purposes and Establishing the
Specifications of the Election Order; and

WHEREAS, The Office of the County Registrar of Voters has rejected the filing of
Resolution #2018/2018-16 on the basis that the ballot measure as approved by the
Board exceeds the 75 word limitation; and

WHEREAS, the Board desires to amend the ballot measure to meet the 75 word
limitation; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Trustees further desires to authorize and direct the
Superintendent or his designee to make any changes to the text of the proposition as
required, upon the advice of the District’s legal counsel, to conform to any requirements
of the Law or the Santa Clara County Registrar of Voters.

NOW, THEREFORE, THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE EAST SIDE UNION
HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT DOES HEREBY RESOLVE, ORDER AND DETERMINE AS
FOLLOWS:

Section I. The ballot measure specified in Resolution #2017-2018-16 is
amended to read:

“To support quality education for East Side Union High School District students,
with funds that cannot be taken by the State, to maintain: 21st century science,
technology, engineering, math, reading, writing instruction; college preparation;
career/technical education in computers, arts, hands-on science, business;
attract/retain high quality teachers, counselors, staff; shall the measure to levy
$49 per parcel for 7 years be adopted, raising $6 million annually, exempting
senior citizens, requiring independent oversight, with all funds supporting
classroom instruction?”

1

Section 2. The Superintendent is directed and authorized to conform Resolution
2017/2018-16 and Exhibit A and B thereto to include the amendments specified in
Section 1 above.

Section 3. Except as specified herein, Resolution #2017-2018-16 is and shall
remain in full force and effect.

Section 4. The Board of Trustees hereby authorizes and directs the
Superintendent or his designee to make any changes to the text of the proposition as
required, upon the advice of the District’s legal counsel, to conform to any requirements
of the Law or the Santa Clara County Registrar of Voters.

Section 5. This resolution shall take effect on and after its adoption.

The foregoing Resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the East Side
Union High School District of Santa Clara County, being the Board authorized by law to
make the designations therein contained by the following vote, on March 8, 2018.

Adopted by the following votes:

NOES: -Q

ABSENT: O
ABSTAIN: -©

Attest:

East Side Union High School District

ADOPTED

2

RESOLUTION NO. 2017/2018-16

BOARD OF TRUSTEES
EAST SIDE UNION HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT

RESOLUTION ORDERING AN ELECTION FOR THE PURPOSE OF
SUBMITTING TO THE QUALIFIED ELECTORS OF THE DISTRICT THE
QUESTION OF LEVYING AN EDUCATION PARCEL TAX UPON EACH
PARCEL IN THE DISTRICT FOR EDUCATIONAL PURPOSES AND
ESTABLISHING THE SPECIFICATIONS OF THE ELECTION ORDER

WHEREAS, the East Side Union High School District (the “District”) is devoted to
providing high quality public education for its students; and

WHEREAS, in order to maintain high quality education programs, the District has
determined that it is necessary to identify a local source of revenue; and

WHEREAS, Section 4 of Article XIIIA of the California Constitution and California
Government Code Sections 50079 et seq. and 50075 et seq. (the “Law") authorize a
school district, upon approval by two-thirds (2/3) of the electorate voting on the measure,
to levy a qualified special tax for specified purposes following notice and a public
hearing; and

WHEREAS, June 5, 2018 is an established election date and a statewide
election date pursuant to the provisions of the California Elections Code; and

WHEREAS, the Board has on this date held a public hearing, which was duly
noticed, where all interested persons have been heard on the matter of holding an
election in the District on the matter of levying a qualified special tax on each parcel in
the District; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Trustees desires at this time to order an election to be
held on June 5, 2018 in the District for the purpose of submitting to the voters in the
District the matter of levying a qualified special tax on each parcel in the District pursuant
to the Law for educational purposes (sometimes referred to herein and in the exhibits
attached hereto as an “education parcel tax”) and to designate the specifications thereof,
pursuant to Education Code Section 5320 et seq. and to request consolidation with all
other elections held in the District on such date, and to request the Santa Clara County
Registrar of Voters to perform election services for the District; and

NOW, THEREFORE, THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE EAST SIDE UNION
HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT DOES HEREBY RESOLVE, ORDER AND DETERMINE AS
FOLLOWS:

Section I. Call for Election. The Board hereby orders an election and submits
to the electors of the District the question of whether an education parcel tax shall be
levied and collected in the District for the specific purposes as set forth more fully in the
ballot proposition approved herein and as set forth on Exhibits A and B hereto. This
Resolution constitutes the order of the District to call such election and shall constitute
the “specifications of the election order” pursuant to Education Code Section 5322.

Section 2. Election Date. The date of the election shall be June 5, 2018, and
the election shall be held solely within the boundaries of the District, which have not
changed since the last District election.

Section 3. Purpose of Election; Ballot Proposition. The purpose of the
election shall be for the voters in the District to vote on a proposition, a full copy of which
is attached hereto and marked Exhibit “A”, containing the question of whether the District
shall levy an education parcel tax in the District for the specific purposes stated therein,
together with the accountability requirements of Government Code Section 50075.1. As
required by Education Code Section 5322 and Elections Code Section 13247, the
abbreviated form of the measure (75 words) to appear on the ballot is attached hereto
and marked as Exhibit “B”. The Board of Trustees hereby authorizes and directs the
Superintendent or his designee to make any changes to the text of the proposition as
required, upon the advice of the District’s legal counsel, to conform to any requirements
of the Law or the Santa Clara County Registrar of Voters.

Section 4. Authority for Election. The authority for ordering the election is
contained in Section 4 of Article XIIIA of the California Constitution and California
Government Code Sections 50079 et seq. and 50075 et seq. The authority for the
specification of this election order is contained in Section 5322 of the Education Code.

Section 5. Type of Tax Rate, and Method of Collection. Said education
parcel tax shall be levied in an equal amount against each parcel of taxable real property
in the District in the amount of $49 per parcel for 7 years, commencing with fiscal year
2018-19.

A parcel shall be defined as any unit of land in the District that receives a
separate tax bill from the Santa Clara County Tax Collector, and shall be collected in the
same manner and subject to the same penalty or penalties as other taxes fixed and
collected by the County on behalf of the District.

Section 6. Exemptions. The following exemptions apply to the levy of the
education parcel tax:

(a)	Otherwise Exempt Property. All property that would otherwise be
exempt from property taxes shall also be exempt from the
education parcel tax.

(b)	Senior Citizen Exemption. An exemption shall be available to
persons who are 65 years or older and own and occupy as a
principal residence a parcel (as defined in Section 5 above) and
apply to the District for such exemption under procedures
established by the District or otherwise as required by law or by the
Santa Clara County Tax Collector.

Section 7. Accountability Requirements.

(a) Government Code 50075.1 Requirements. The members of the Board, the
Superintendent and officers of the District are hereby directed, individually and
collectively, to comply with the accountability measures pursuant to Government Code

Section 50075.1 that include, but are not limited, to the following: (a) the measure shall
include a statement indicating the specific purposes of the education parcel tax, (b) the
measure shall require that the proceeds of the education parcel tax be applied only to
the specific purposes identified in the ballot measure, (c) the measure shall require the
creation of an account into which the proceeds of the education parcel tax shall be
deposited, and (d) the measure shall require that the District prepare, or cause to be
prepared by a third party auditor in accordance with Section 7(c) below, an annual report
pursuant to Government Code Section 50075.3 as provided in Section 8 hereof. Such
accountability measures shall be set forth on the ballot in the form of Exhibit A attached
hereto and incorporated herein by reference.

(b)	Citizens’ Oversight Committee. In addition, the governing board of the
District will appoint a Citizens’ Oversight Committee with responsibility to review the
expenditures of the District from the education parcel tax to ensure the proceeds of the
education parcel tax are expended for the specific purposes set forth in the measure,
and to provide an annual report to the District and the public concerning the expenditure
of the proceeds of the education parcel tax. The governing board of the District, if the
measure is successful, will adopt bylaws governing the administration of the Citizens’
Oversight Committee.

(c)	Annual Independent Audits. The District will engage a third party
independent auditor to conduct annual audits reviewing the revenues and expenditures
of the education parcel tax to confirm that funds are spent for the purposes described in
the measure.

Section 8. Annual Report. Pursuant to Government Code Section 50075.3,
the Board directs the chief fiscal officer of the District to file a report with the Board each
year containing (a) the amount of education parcel tax funds collected and expended
and (b) the status of any project required or authorized to be funded from the proceeds
of the education parcel tax as identified in the measure.

Section 9. Delivery of this Resolution. The Clerk of the Board is hereby
directed to send a copy of this Resolution for receipt no later than 88 days prior to the
June 5, 2018 election date, as follows:

(a)	County Elections Officer (as required pursuant to Education Code
Section 5322 and Elections Code Section 10403),

(b)	County Board of Supervisors (as required pursuant to Elections
Code Section 10403), and

(c)	County Superintendent of Schools for the purposes of noticing the
election on the measure pursuant to Education Code Section
5325(a).

Section 10. Consolidation of Election. The County Elections Officer and the
Santa Clara County Board of Supervisors are hereby requested to consolidate the
election ordered hereby with any and all other elections to be held on June 5, 2018,
within the District. The District acknowledges that the election shall be held and
conducted in accordance with Elections Code Section 10418. Pursuant to Section 5303
of the Education Code and Section 10002 of the Elections Code, the Board of

Supervisors of Santa Clara County is requested to permit the County Registrar to render
all services specified by Section 10418 of the Elections Code relating to the election, for
which services the District agrees to reimburse Santa Clara County in full from District
general funds upon presentation of a bill from the County, such services to include the
publication of notices of election and the mailing of the sample ballot.

Section 11. Ballot Arguments. As provided in Elections Code Section 9501,
any and all members of this Board are hereby authorized to act as an author of any
ballot argument prepared in connection with the election, including a rebuttal argument.
The Superintendent, President of the Board, or their designees, are hereby authorized to
execute any document and to perform all acts necessary to place the measure on the
ballot.

Section 12. Notice of Election. That the County Elections Officer is hereby
requested to prepare a formal Notice of Election in time, form and manner as required by
law, and the County Superintendent of Schools is hereby requested to post such notice
in accordance with Education Code Section 5325. The suggested form of notice of the
election is as follows:

EAST SIDE UNION HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT
ELECTION NOTICE

NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN to the qualified
electors of the East Side Union High School
District (the "District") of Santa Clara County, that
in accordance with law, an election will be held on
Tuesday, June 5, 2018, in the District, at which
election there will be submitted the question of
levying an education parcel tax of $49 per parcel
annually for 7 years, exempting seniors, with
citizens’ oversight and annual audits, for the
purpose of raising money to pay educational
costs.

Section 13. Reimbursement for Services Performed. The East Side Union
High School District agrees to reimburse the County Elections Officer/Registrar of Voters
for services performed with respect to the election called herein following completion of
such services and upon presentation of a bill.

Section 14. Legal Services. The Board retains the firm of Jones Hall, A
Professional Law Corporation as Legal Counsel in connection with its parcel tax
proceedings. The Assistant Superintendent, Business Services, is authorized to execute
an agreement with Jones Hall providing for legal services rendered in connection with
the proceedings described herein.

Section 15. Notification to Non-Resident Property Owners. In the event that
the election is successful and the qualified special tax is approved, the District shall
provide written notice of the qualified special tax to any property owners who do not
reside in the District, as required by Section 54930 of the California Government Code.

Section 16. Election Pursuant to Law. In all particulars not recited in this
Resolution, said election shall be held and conducted as provided by law for holding
school district elections in the District.

Section 17. Certification by Clerk of the Board That the Clerk of the Board
shall certify to the passage and adoption of and shall make minutes of the passage and
adoption therefore in the records of the proceedings of the Board of Trustees of the
District, in the minutes of the meeting at which the same is passed and adopted.

Section 18. Effective Date. This resolution shall take effect on and after its
adoption.

********

The foregoing Resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the East Side
Union High School District of Santa Clara County, being the Board authorized by law to
make the designations therein contained by the following vote, on February 13, 2018.

Adopted by the following votes:

r

AYES:

NOES: "0
ABSENT©©

ABSTAIN: e

0

-5-

EXHIBIT A

BALLOT MEASURE
FULL TEXT OF MEASURE

INTRODUCTION

“To support quality education for East Side Union High School District students,
with funds that cannot be taken by the State, to maintain: 21st century science,
technology, engineering, math, reading, writing instruction; college preparation;
career/technical education in computers, arts, hands-on science, business;
attract/retain high quality teachers, counselors, staff; shall the measure to levy
$49 per parcel for 7 years be adopted, raising $6 million annually, exempting
senior citizens, requiring independent oversight, with all funds supporting
classroom instruction?”

PURPOSES

To provide local revenue that cannot be taken by the State and to maintain high-quality
public education in schools within the East Side Union High School District (the “District”), the
District proposes to levy and collect an education parcel tax annually for 7 years as more fully
described below under “EDUCATION PARCEL TAX AND PROCEDURES,” and to implement
accountability measures in connection with the education parcel tax and to provide oversight
and accountability to ensure that funds are used only for the following specific purposes:

•	Develop and implement programs for 21st century science, technology,
engineering, math, reading and writing instruction;

•	Attract/ retain highly qualified teachers and staff, and

•	Develop and implement for career/ technical education pathways for
college and career success, including computer science, biology, biotech,
and high tech skills.

The Board of Trustees will not fund any program other than those listed above from the
proceeds of the education parcel tax.

EDUCATION PARCEL TAX AND PROCEDURES

Amount of Education Parcel Tax. Subject to two-thirds approval of the voters, the
education parcel tax of $49 per parcel (except exempt parcels, as described below) shall
become effective for 7 years commencing with fiscal year 2018-19 and be collected by the
Santa Clara County Tax Collector at the same time as and along with, and shall be subject to
the same penalties as general ad valorem taxes collected by said tax collector.

Definition of Parcel. A parcel shall be defined as any unit of land in the District that
receives a separate tax bill from the Santa Clara County Tax Collector.

Exhibit A-1

Exemptions. The following exemptions shall apply to the levy of the qualified special tax.

•	Otherwise Exempt Property. All property that would otherwise be exempt
from property taxes shall also be exempt from the education parcel tax.

•	Senior Citizen Exemption. An exemption shall be available to persons who
are 65 years or older and own and occupy as a principal residence a parcel
subject to the education parcel tax.

Property owners seeking the senior citizen exemption must apply to the District for such
exemption under procedures established by the District or otherwise as required by law or by
the Santa Clara County Tax Collector.

Exclusive Procedures. The procedures described herein with respect to the levy and
collection of the education parcel tax and exemptions, and any additional procedures
established by the Board of Trustees of the District, shall be the exclusive claims procedure for
claimants seeking an exemption, refund, reduction, or re-computation of the qualified special
tax. Whether any particular claim is to be resolved by the District or by the County shall be
determined by the District, in coordination with the County as necessary. The District’s Board of
Trustees may adopt such additional or supplemental procedures as it deems necessary or
convenient for the administration of the education parcel tax.

ACCOUNTABILITY MEASURES

Government Code Accountability. In accordance with the requirements of California
Government Code sections 50075.1 and 50075.3, the following accountability measures,
among others, shall apply to the qualified special taxes levied in accordance with this Measure:

•	the specific purposes of the education parcel tax shall be those purposes
identified above under the heading “PURPOSES,”

•	the proceeds of the education parcel tax shall be applied only to those
specific purposes identified above under the heading “PURPOSES,”

•	a separate, special account shall be created into which the proceeds of the
education parcel tax must be deposited; and

•	the chief fiscal officer of the District shall file an annual written report with the
Board of Trustees of the District showing (1) the amount of funds collected
and expended from the proceeds of the education parcel tax and (2) the
status of any projects, programs, or purposes identified above under the
heading “PURPOSES.”

Citizens’ Oversight Committee. In addition to the accountability measures required by
the Government Code, an independent Citizens’ Oversight Committee shall be appointed by the
Board of Trustees to advise the Board on the expenditures funded by the measure in order to
ensure that said funds are spent for the purposes approved by the voters. The Citizens’
Oversight Committee will monitor the expenditures of these funds by the District and will report
on an annual basis to the Board and community on how these funds have been spent.

Exhibit A-2

Annual Independent Audits. The District will engage a third party independent auditor to
conduct annual audits reviewing the revenues and expenditures of the education parcel tax to
confirm that funds are spent for the purposes described in the measure.

DISTRIBUTION OF EDUCATION PARCEL TAX FUNDS

Each fiscal year the District will share in the education parcel tax proceeds as provided
herein: (1) with public charter schools currently operating within the District’s boundaries as of
June 5, 2018, serving students who reside in the District, and (2) with a new or proposed new
public charter school which submitted its charter petition pursuant to Education Code sections
47605, 47605.5, 47605.6, or 47605.8 on or before November 1, 2017, and received approval of
its petition on or before June 5, 2018. The District and each such charter school shall, as
determined by the Board of Trustees, receive a proportionate share of the total proceeds from
the education parcel tax actually received by the District each year (the “Total Proceeds”)
pursuant to the following provisions:

1.	Calculation of Proportionate Share. Each charter school’s proportionate share of
educational parcel tax proceeds shall be determined as follows:

(a)	Each school year the District shall add the total in-District enrollment of all
charter schools to the total District enrollment as reported to the California
Department of Education in the California Basic Educational Data System
(CBEDS) Online Reporting Application (CBEDS-ORA) as of October 31
each year, which sum shall equal the “Total In-District Enrollment".

(b)	The District shall divide the Total Proceeds by Total In-District Enrollment,
which shall equal the “Per Student Share of Parcel Taxes” for the school
year.

(c)	For each charter school the District shall calculate the charter school’s
proportionate share of the Total Proceeds by multiplying the charter
school’s in-District enrollment by the Per Student Share of Parcel Taxes.

2.	Accountability. As a condition to receiving its Per Student Share of Parcel Taxes each
charter school shall comply with the following transparency and accountability requirements.
The District reserves the right, through Board action at an open session of a public meeting, to
suspend, reduce or eliminate, in whole or in part, the parcel tax proceeds disbursed to such
charter school for failure to comply with these requirements:

(a)	No later than October 31 of each year, each charter school shall provide
the District with student directory information (including student name,
residence address, telephone number, and school district of residence in
sortable electronic format) to allow the District to determine such charter
school’s in-District enrollment for purposes of verifying the charter school’s
proportionate share of the Total Proceeds. The District will take
reasonable measures to protect this information as may be required by
applicable federal and State law.

(b)	Each charter school shall be solely and individually responsible for
ensuring that all parcel tax proceeds are spent consistent with, and only for
the purposes identified in, the voter approved parcel tax. In addition, each

Exhibit A-3

charter school shall ensure that its independent auditor provides to the
District as part of its annual audit a separate balance sheet reflecting the
revenues and expenses relating to the expenditures of proceeds received
from the qualified special tax.

(c)	Each charter school shall adhere to the highest levels of transparency in its
expenditure of its share of the proceeds, in part, through compliance with
the following requirements:

(i)	A charter school shall only approve the expenditure of parcel tax
proceeds in a duly agendized open session meeting of its governing
board. The charter school shall provide the District no less than 72
hours notice of such a meeting, with a copy of the agenda and all
information provided to charter school’s governing board in
connection with such agenda item.

(ii)	No later than September 15 each year, each charter school shall
provide to the District a written report accounting in detail for its
expenditure of parcel tax proceeds in the previous fiscal year and
detailing the status of any projects, programs, or purposes to (a)
develop and implement programs for 21st century science,
technology, engineering, math, reading and writing instruction, (b) to
attract/ retain highly qualified teachers and staff, and (c) to develop
and implement career/ technical education pathways for college and
career success, including computer science, biology, biotech, and
high tech skills. The report shall provide sufficient detail for the
District, the District’s appointed Citizens Oversight Committee, and
the District's auditors to determine if the Charter School expended its
share of the proceeds as required by the voter-approved measure.

(iii)	Each Charter School shall track its expenditure of its share of
proceeds separately from all other revenues, and by resource code,
for the purposes of making its annual written report to the District.

(iv)	Each charter school shall cooperate with the appointed Citizens’
Oversight Committee in its monitoring of expenditures of parcel tax
proceeds, including timely responding to requests for information and
documents relating to the expenditure of tax proceeds.

3. Good Standing. To maintain its eligibility for any distribution of parcel tax proceeds,
each charter school must be in operation and must be and remain in good standing with its
charter authorizer.

PROTECTION OF FUNDING

Current law forbids any decrease in State or Federal funding to the District because of
the District’s adoption of an education parcel tax. However, if any such funds are reduced
because of the adoption of this education parcel tax, then the amount of the education parcel
tax will be reduced annually as necessary in order to restore such State or Federal funding.

Exhibit A-4

SEVERABILITY

The Board of Trustees of the District hereby declares, and the voters by approving this
measure concur, that every section, paragraph, sentence and clause of this measure has
independent value, and the Board of Trustees and the voters would have adopted each
provision hereof regardless of every other provision hereof. Upon approval of this measure by
the voters, should any part be found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any
reason, all remaining parts hereof shall remain in full force and effect to the fullest extent
allowed by law.

Exhibit A-5

EXHIBIT B

BALLOT MEASURE
ABBREVIATED FORM*

“To support quality education for East Side Union High School District students,
with funds that cannot be taken by the State, to maintain: 21st century science,
technology, engineering, math, reading, writing instruction; college preparation;
career/technical education in computers, arts, hands-on science, business;
attract/retain high quality teachers, counselors, staff; shall the measure to levy
$49 per parcel for 7 years be adopted, raising $6 million annually, exempting
senior citizens, requiring independent oversight, with all funds supporting
classroom instruction?"

*Limited to 75 words

Exhibit B-1