SPECIAL ELECTION
Tuesday, April 10, 2018

Voter's

Pamphlet

l-FC-0418

14FC0418

MEASURE J
SOUTHERN INYO HEALTHCARE DISTRICT
RESOLUTION NO. 18-1
RESOLUTION ORDERING A SPECIAL PARCEL TAX
ELECTION, ESTABLISHING SPECIFICATIONS OF
THE ELECTION ORDER

RESOLVED, by the Board of Directors (the “Board”) of the Southern Inyo
Healthcare District (the “District”), as follows:

WHEREAS, District was formed in 1949 pursuant to section
32000 et seq. of the California Health & Safety Code, for the purpose
of operating the Southern Inyo Hospital (the “Hospital”) and providing
services to help promote the health of the residents of the District;

WHEREAS, the District has provided continuous emergency,
medical, acute care and related health care services to local residents
for over 60 years;

WHEREAS, District area can easily be cut off from outside
help during major fires, earthquakes, or other disasters and the Hospital
may be the only option for victims of heart attacks, strokes, recreational
injuries and other emergencies;

WHEREAS, the District cannot increase its revenues due
to the low reimbursement rates of payors, including governmental
programs, commercial insurers and health maintenance organizations
and the District will no longer be able to ensure continued local access
to emergency room care, acute hospital care and other medical services
for residents of the District unless some form of sustained financial
assistance is provided;

WHEREAS, due to the challenging financial conditions facing
rural critical access hospitals, and in order to maintain operations and
protect the health, safety and welfare of the public, the District was
forced to declare a fiscal emergency and seek protection under chapter
9 of theBankruptcy Code;

WHEREAS, Section 4 of Article XIIIA of the California
Constitution and section 50075 et seq. and section 53730.1 of the
California Government Code authorize healthcare districts to levy a
special tax to raise funds for the purpose of conducting its business
upon the approval of two-thirds of the votes cast by voters voting upon
such a special tax proposal; and

WHEREAS, it has been determined that the Board call a
special election on April 10, 2018, at which will be submitted to the
qualified voters of the District a measure to authorize a special tax for
the purpose of providing vital moneys to (a) to pay the obligations of the
District in accordance with the confirmed plan for the adjustment of debt,
including to secure a long-term borrowing for such purpose, (b) fund the
construction and equipping of future facilities of the District, including,
but not limited to, improvements to insure seismic safety, including to
secure long-term borrowings for such future capital needs of the District,
and (c) fund ongoing operating requirements of the District.

NOW, THEREFORE, the Board of Directors of the Southern
Inyo Healthcare District does hereby resolve, determine, and order as
follows:

1.	The District hereby proposes to adopt a parcel tax, as
authorized under section 50075 et seq. and section 53730.1 of the
California Government Code.

2.	This resolution shall stand as the order to the Registrar
of Voters of Inyo County (the “County”) to call an election within the
boundaries of the District on April 10, 2018, for approval of the measure
contained in Section 3 hereof. In all particulars not recited in this
Resolution, the election shall be held and conducted as provided by
law for holding municipal elections. That pursuant to the requirements
of section 10403 of the California Elections Code, the Board of
Supervisors of the County is hereby requested to consent and agree
to the consolidation of the election with any other election to be held on
such date, and said election shall be held in all respects as if there were
only one election and only one form of ballot shall be used. The District
hereby agrees to reimburse the County for actual costs incurred by it for
the District’s election, as set forth in the current election cost allocation
procedures of the County.

3.	The District hereby sets the full text of the measure to be
placed on the ballot for the election of April 10, 2018, as follows:

(a)	The District will levy a parcel tax on each taxable parcel of
land within the District, at an annual rate of $215 per parcel. The parcel
tax is expected to raise approximately $602,000 annually. The parcel tax
will terminate after the year 2033.

(b)	The purpose of the parcel tax will be to (i) to pay the
obligations of the District in accordance with the confirmed plan for the
adjustment of debt, including to secure a long-term borrowing for.such
purpose, (ii) fund the construction and equipping of future facilities of
the District, including, but not limited to, improvements to insure seismic
safety, including to secure long-term borrowings for such future capital
needs of the District, and (iii) fund ongoing operating requirements of the
District.

(c)	The District’s appropriations limit will be established at an
amount equal to the available funding during the first year of the parcel
tax at the rate of $215 per parcel.

(d)	Taxable parcels are those that appear on the annual
secured County property tax roll.

(e)	There will be no exemptions from the levy of the parcel tax
based upon number of parcels owned by an individual owner, contiguous
parcels or otherwise.

(f)	The parcel tax revenues will be deposited into a fund held
by the District.

(g)	The District will cause to be filed an annual report with
the Board, commencing on January 1, 2019, and annually thereafter,
which report will be for the fiscal year ended June 30 of the prior year
and contain information regarding the amount of parcel tax revenues
collected and expended.

(h)	Since the District may chose to secure long-term
borrowings with the parcel tax revenues, pursuant to sections 53410
and 53411 of the California Government Code, the Board hereby finds,
determines and directs as follows:

(i)	The	purpose of any securities to be secured by

parcel tax revenues shall be solely (a) to finance the payment of the
obligations of the District in accordance with the confirmed plan for the
adjustment of debt or (b) to finance capital needs of the District.

(ii) The Board hereby provides that at the time the
securities are authorized by the Board for issuance and sale, the Board
shall provide, in such issuance resolution or other issuance documents,

14-501

14501

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY INYO COUNTY
COUNSEL MEASURE J
SOUTHERN INYO HEALTHCARE DISTRICT

Measure J was placed on the ballot by the Southern Inyo Healthcare
District (“District”) Board of Directors. Measure J would approve the
imposition of a special tax in the amount of two hundred fifteen dollars
($215.00) per year on each parcel of taxable land within the boundaries
of the District. The tax will expire after the year 2033.

The proceeds of the special tax are intended to be used for the purposes
set forth in the full text of District Resolution 18-1, which includes:

•	to fund debt payments, including to secure long-term
debt to finance existing obligations;

•	to fund future construction of, and improvements to,

District facilities, including to secure long-term debt
for such purposes; and

•	to fund ongoing operating requirements of the District.

If the proceeds of the special tax are used to secure long-term debt in
the form of securities sold by the District, the proceeds from the sale of
any such securities shall be used only to fund existing debt payments
and/or for future capital projects. Any such proceeds from the sale of
securities will not be used for any other purpose, including staff and
administrator salaries expenses.

The Measure will require the District’s governing board to appoint a
“Citizens’ Oversight Committee” to help ensure that the proceeds from
any such securities are expended for the purposes as described in the
Measure.

Measure J will not change any existing tax, ordinance, or other law.

The special tax will be collected by the Inyo County Treasurer-Tax
Collector at the same time as, and along with, the ad valorem property
tax, and will be subject to the same penalties and interest that apply to
ad valorem property taxes if not paid when due.

Measure J will further require accountability measures, including,
but not limited to (a) the creation of an account into which securities
proceeds will be deposited and (b) the preparation of an annual report
by the District’s Chief Financial Officer specifying the amount of funds
collected and expended and the status of any project authorized to be
funded by long term debt secured by the special tax revenues.

Measure J is a special tax earmarked for specific purposes. If two thirds
of the qualified electors voting on this Measure do not vote for approval,
the Measure will fail and the District will not be authorized to levy the
special tax outlined above.

A “YES” vote on Measure J means you wish to enact the special tax.

A “NO” vote on Measure J means you do not wish to enact the special
tax.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure J. If you
desire a copy of the Measure, please call the elections official at
(760) 878-0222 and a copy will be mailed to you at no cost.

THIS PAGE WAS LEFT
BLANK INTENTIONALLY

14-503

ilililllli